ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-16-54-plenair-ip161x.u1	The meeting is open. The meeting was opened.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-16-54-plenair-ip161x.u2	The President [[in front of the standing assembly]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-16-54-plenair-ip161x.u3	[[for the standing meeting]] Colleagues, Édouard Close, a former member of the House of Representatives, died in Liège on 2 March at the age of 87. Édouard Close was born in Verviers on 8 July 1929. Descendant of a left-wing working-class family, he joined the Young Socialist Guards, and a few years later he became the general secretary before becoming its national president. At the end of his training in cabinetmaking, Édouard Close began studying as a social worker and was hired by the Federation of Socialist Mutualities of the Province of Liège. From 1948, Édouard Close also became a member of the Belgian Socialist Party. Thus, on 1 January 1959, he became a communal councillor in Liège, a term he would hold for more than thirty years. In March 1968, Édouard Close entered national politics after being elected to the House of Representatives. During his time in this assembly, he was mainly active in the middle class committee, the committee on public health and the family and the committee on culture. In January 1972 only four years after his election as Member of Parliament, Édouard Close became Secretary of State for Walloon Regional Economy in the Gaston Eyskens government. From January 1973 to April 1974, he was Minister of the Interior in the Leburton I Government and the Leburton II Government. He devoted himself, among other things, to the archdifficult file of the largest municipal merger operation in Belgian history. After his ministry, Édouard Close was directly elected senator. In the then High Assembly, he was chairman of the Parti Socialiste and also chairman of the Committee for the Interior, where he was also working on municipal mergers. Édouard Close obtained a dazzling score in the communal elections of October 1976. On 1 January 1977, he left the Senate to assume the Maiorate of the ardent city where he had already exercised an executive mandate twice: in 1971, as a bishop of public education and, from 1974 to 1976, as a bishop of social affairs. As mayor, Édouard Close worked to ensure that the eight municipalities just merged with Liège had the same public services. To this end, it established administrative offices in the various merged municipalities. In 1978, he laid the foundation for the agreement that the mayors of the major Walloon cities would conclude regarding their respective roles within the future Walloon Region. In 1989, to overcome the city's colossal public debt, Édouard Close was forced to put in place a draconian sanitation plan. Relying on his great popularity and thanks in part to his ability to put himself in the place of others and thanks to his tact, qualities in his innate home, he managed to make accept his plan of revival and thus avoid that his city did not experience widespread social chaos. A year later, in November 1990, Édouard Close resigned from his office as mayor, and withdrew from active politics. He nevertheless continued to be interested in his party's efforts and, above all, in the Liikunaars, to whom he always felt closely related. To say it with the words of his former first ships William Ancion: "He was a man who had a sense of the common good. He loved Liège and the Liegeians, who made it good for him." To his unartificial elegance, Édouard Close attached a great contact and benevolence. On behalf of the House, I offered our sincere condolences to the family.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-16-54-plenair-ip161x.u4	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, at the time of the announcement of the death of Édouard Close, a friend from Liège said to me: "Edouard was really a Belgian mayor, he was a Liegeese." This sentence pays tribute not only to the personality of Édouard Close but also to his journey. Edouard Close has remained faithful to his commitment throughout his political career. He came from a socialist workers' environment and became a member of the party in 1948. He was a furniture maker by profession, worked as a clerk at the socialist mutualities and became a city council member in 1958. In 1968 he became a representative of the district of Liège. He also became Minister of the Interior in the Leburton administration. After that passage in the government he returned to his city, as ships of Social Affairs. From 1977 to 1990, for the Liegeese, he was not only the mayor of the Ardent City. He was perhaps especially the first mayor of the Grand Liège after the merger of the communes, a function which was very dear to him since he chose to give up his presence in the Senate in order to devote himself fully to his city. To preside over the destiny of the city of Liège, Édouard Close dared to create a form of innovation by involving environmentalists for the first time in the management of a large city. In the late 1980s, Édouard Close was faced with a huge debt from the city of Liège and he would take measures of drastic savings, a difficult decision, contested at the time by the trade unions which would organise strikes for the collection of waste. The streets of Liège were littered with garbage. Édouard Close will have to use the army to clean up the city. Beyond political strategies, the Liegeians will remember the image of a Maieur close to the people, proud of his Liège accent. The fans of the round ball will certainly point out that Édouard Close was also a fierce supporter of the Standard of Liège. On behalf of the federal government, I wish to extend my sincere condolences to Edward Close's family, friends and loved ones.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-16-54-plenair-ip161x.u5	Ladies and gentlemen, may I ask you to observe a few moments of silence in memory of the late colleague and former minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-16-54-plenair-ip161x.u6	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 15 March 2017, I propose to you on the agenda of this afternoon's plenary session the proposal (Mrs Peter Vanvelthoven, Stéphane Crusnière, Roel Deseyn, Benoît Dispa, Georges Gilkinet, Vincent Scourneau, Luk Van Biesen and Robert Van de Velde) to set up a parliamentary committee of inquiry to finalise the mandate of the Special Committee on International Tax Fraud/Panama Papers, No. 2344/1, to be registered. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 15 March 2017, I propose that you include in the agenda of this afternoon's plenary session the proposal (MM. Peter Vanvelthoven, Stéphane Crusnière, Roel Deseyn, Benoît Dispa, Georges Gilkinet, Vincent Scourneau, Luk Van Biesen and Robert Van de Velde) to set up a parliamentary committee of inquiry to finalize the task of the Special Committee on International Tax Fraud/Panama Papers, No. 2344/1. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. I must remind you of the following at the same time. If the proposal to set up a committee of inquiry is adopted, this committee will be set up immediately afterwards. Those who are part of it have been warned.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-16-54-plenair-ip161x.u7	Ladies and gentlemen, at the beginning of Question Time, I should like to remind you of an agreement we made yesterday at the Conference of Presidents. It has been agreed that, if there are three combined questions, the answer time for the government is limited to five minutes, referring to the actua debate. For the rest, I would also like to draw your attention to the general rule: two minutes per question, two minutes per answer and one minute before reply. In general terms, the remark has been made that it should take less time. I think we all agreed on that.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-16-54-plenair-ip161x.u8	May I also ask you to listen to the oral questions and the answers?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-16-54-plenair-ip161x.u9	Prime Minister, I know at least one thing about you: you have memory. So you will easily remember that, since the formation of your government, with my colleague Mr Calvo and with our group as a whole, we are asking for you to put in place a real investment plan for this country in the future. My colleague Mr Vanden Burre also asked you in committee, not long ago. In September 2016, in a back-to-school interview, you gave yourself your commitment to initiate the dynamics of an investment plan in a few sectors you cited, and we could reach you: transport, mobility, energy transition, health. You also responded to the call of the bosses, who had spoken in May. Since you have memory, you certainly remember that in response to my colleague, who asked you when you were going to get there, you said that you were making the commitment that, for the first quarter of 2017, we would have the first concrete decisions and that an action plan would be initiated. I am not saying that nothing has been done: you have had contacts with the European Commission, with the Regions. But I would like you to tell us in the chamber today what the federal government is in a position to announce in terms of investment. We initiated with my colleague Calvo an important colloquium which took place last week in the House, to revive around BE.invest this necessary dynamic of investment in the future. Both the bosses, as well as the unions, as well as the university professors, as well as the Bureau du Plan, which was invited, expect from you a realization of what you had said at the time. I'm listening carefully.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-16-54-plenair-ip161x.u10	Thank you, Mr Nollet, for this exemplary question!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-16-54-plenair-ip161x.u11	Mr President, I will try to give an exemplary answer. Thank you, honourable Member, for asking me this question that is of great interest to me. You recalled that we had interesting and constructive discussions in committee on the subject. I stand by the commitment that has been made. At the end of March, we will be at the end of the first quarter. I can take stock already at this point and complete the information by announcing that there will be further decisions made by the government over the next few weeks. As you know, three themes are considered as priorities: mobility, digital agenda and energy transition. Over the past few weeks, I have worked with my teams and colleagues on several fronts to put this plan at our heart. First, we are working on governance to have a transparent, simplified decision-making mechanism. As you know, I want to involve Parliament when the time comes in order to overcome, if possible, the majority-opposition divides. Secondly, the means of financing. There is a need to distinguish between private, public and sometimes mixed private-public financing channels. We need to have the necessary debate with the European Union here to technically consider the impact on our fiscal trajectories and how to bring about positive structural reforms for economic development and job creation. Above all, the central issue we are working on with the various departments at the federal level at this stage, as far as we are concerned, is that of the list of projects considered to be priorities. On this subject, I have been asking for some time now for inventory work to bring this list to the government table. Here are some examples of projects that are already on the table. This list is not yet finalized; we are busy working on it. More specifically, with regard to energy, I will mention projects in the context of energy storage, the energy transition fund that has been announced and on which we are continuing to move forward. In the area of mobility, I will mention projects concerning investments for the RER, with the necessary means of financing. Finally, there will be projects on the important subject of digitalisation, for which we, as public authorities, must set an example.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-16-54-plenair-ip161x.u12	Prime Minister, thank you for your answer. I take note of your commitment. Soon, by the end of March, we will be able to ask you again about the decisions that you have taken in practice, beyond the intentions. I just want to tell you one more thing. You have cited the necessary investments such as energy transition and mobility, and we are following you in this regard. But beyond that, what matters is that politics shows that it is able to find itself around long-term projects. I believe that this is also the signal that the citizens sent to the Netherlands yesterday. It is also, it seems to me, that we will fight against all forms of extremism, against all forms of populism. I hope that we will be able to demonstrate very quickly what you have said here, also in Belgium, including in the majority and opposition association.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-16-54-plenair-ip161x.u13	Prime Minister, your Secretary of State Theo Francken supported a proposal from his party, the N-VA, on social media last week. The proposal would require children born in our country and growing up here, but of whom only one parent has Belgian nationality, to take a kind of exam at 18 years, a kind of citizenship exam, in order to become a full Belgian. Until then, according to the proposal, they are only subject to Belgian nationality. Colleagues, are we aware that about half of our Belgian national football team, the Red Devils, which we are so proud of, would not be until their 18th full Belgian according to the proposal? Do we realise that Kevin De Bruyne is actually not a full-fledged Belgian according to that proposal? Colleagues, against Belgian Erasmus students who go abroad and get to know someone, I would warn them not to have children or not to return, because their children will not be able to become Belgian until they are 18 years old. Colleagues of the N-VA, may I ask you a question? What kind of problem do you solve with this? Why do you keep trying to distinguish between citizens who were born here? Why do you keep talking about us and them? However, there are enough problems in our country in terms of integration, language skills, discrimination in the labour market, the place of religion in our society. In fact, we should all tackle these problems and challenges together instead of always looking for more division, more polarisation. Prime Minister, you are Prime Minister of the country and you have moral leadership. That's what I'm assuming. I would like to ask you whether you support your Secretary of State Theo Francken's proposal or will you correct it? I look forward very much to your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-16-54-plenair-ip161x.u14	Mr President, Prime Minister, you have heard this idea of the N-VA to change the rules, so that automatic nationality is granted to a child born in Belgium and residing in Belgium only if his or her parents are both Belgian. If this is not the case, there would be a nationality test to see if this citizen is truly worthy of Belgian status. Hundreds of thousands of people would never have had Belgian nationality in Belgium according to these criteria. In Hainaut, for example, where I live, all those who have an Italian parent and a Belgian parent – this is the case with my partner – would not have Belgian nationality at the time it is. In this way, second-class citizens are very clearly created. What is the reaction of the majority? We can see that Mr. Franken re-twittes the idea. It can be seen that this goes further than the seven-point plan of the Vlaams Belang. The N-VA clearly wants to double the far right on its right. On the other hand, the Open Vld and the CD&V are rather against. But the MR, Prime Minister, by the voice of Mr.Ducarme, finds the idea interesting and says that this idea of examination corresponds to what the MR has in his boxes. It's a matter of concern. Prime Minister, my questions are as follows. Is the position expressed by Mr. Ducrame the position of the MR within the government? How would this bellgitude test work? Prime Minister or Mr.Ducarme, can you give us more details? I am thinking of a few examples of questions that Belgian candidates would be asked. You are invited to a meeting where there are old collabos and where we discuss the end of Belgium. Are you going? Yes or no? What's the right answer? Second question. We're offering you a public warrant where you get money without going to meetings. Do you accept? Yes or no? Last example, Mr. President. A Kazakh mafia asks you to do him a favor at a rate of 2,000 euros per hour. Do you accept? Yes or no? What is the right answer to be Belgian? What is the concept of belgitude?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-16-54-plenair-ip161x.u15	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as I do every time, I would like to go back to the facts. What are they? In all democracies, in all parliaments, there are regular debates on issues relating to nationality and the conditions for access to it. A few years ago, in 2012, Parliament took important decisions. In the light of a logical evolution in terms of the conditions for becoming Belgian, a majority and opposition have adopted legislation in this area. This followed a democratic debate and a parliamentary debate. No formal text has been tabled today in the Chamber, in Parliament. It is difficult for me to defend a formal position of the government without a formal text. However, I would like to make a few points. In my view, I am convinced that, firstly, it is clear that second-class citizens are out of the question. That has to be clear. Secondly, it also means that there is a need for a debate without taboos on integration and better integration. There are, certainly in Parliament, different views on the best way, the best modalities for better integration. That is democracy. Once again, it must be a debate without taboos, with no simplism. That's the government's commitment.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-16-54-plenair-ip161x.u16	Prime Minister, I would like to thank you for your appeal and for your statement that we in our country should not evolve into a situation with A and B citizens. I interpret your words as an appeal to get rid of that we-and-side thinking and to connect our society together. It's hard times to move forward. Mrs. Smeyers, your proposal was legally rambling on all sides. We have noticed that you are already starting to slow down. Only no one knows which direction, that is completely unclear. In any case, I would like to say that it is not a positive way of doing politics. There's enough negativity already. Mrs Smeyers, such proposals only create more aversion, opposition and frustration among the population groups in our country. I would like very briefly to read one sentence from Belinda Torres, a youngster from Ostend with a Belgian mother and a Peruvian father. I want to read what she wrote on Facebook the day after you launched your proposal: "I'm tired." I always have to defend myself and I don't really know why anymore." That shows the tragedy of such proposals. They do not solve anything, on the contrary, they only exacerbate the problems in our country. (...): (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-16-54-plenair-ip161x.u17	Mrs Smeyers, in all honesty, I do not think this is a personal fact.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-16-54-plenair-ip161x.u18	Prime Minister, thank you for your double answer. On the one hand, you say there are no second-class citizens. I fully agree with you. On the other hand, you are telling us that there should be a taboo-free debate on integration. Doesn't that cancel what you just said? We know what that kind of formula means. In any case, I agree with Mr Ducrame's comments on the idea of a passing examination to acquire Belgian nationality. This goes in the opposite direction of integration! It is a process of exclusion, a process where real Belgians are separated from second-class citizens, who have only one Belgian parent, then third-class citizens who have two foreign parents, etc. We can create a large number of categories, Prime Minister. Unfortunately, your government already has a history. Measures have already been taken with regard to expulsion which apply the same logic of citizens from different areas. Prime Minister, it is good to give lessons to other countries that are embarking on a populist path. But perhaps we should look at what you are doing in your own country! I solemnly say to you: avoid the easy way of populism!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-16-54-plenair-ip161x.u19	Prime Minister, Europe is a union in the barrier. In addition to Juncker's Brexit and White Paper on the future of Europe, I believe that there is another new dynamic within Europe, a dynamic that is irreversible, a dynamic of the enlargement of Europe, where regions such as Scotland and Catalonia want to become new Member States in Europe. On Monday, Prime Minister Nicola Sturgeon announced that Scottish voters would be given the choice for a Scotland in the UK or a Scotland within the European Union. On the other side of the North Sea, the unwillingness of the Spanish Government to enter into dialogue with Catalans drives the desire for a new independence referendum at peak. Carles Puigdemont, the president, announced a new, binding referendum for this autumn. Prime Minister, the future of Scotland and Catalonia lies not only in the hands of their inhabitants, but also in the hands of Europe. Without a European Union that supports them in democratic choices and offers the prospect of a future within the Union, Europe loses its support. These are new Member States that are highly pro-European. By taking them on board, we are increasing the credibility of the Union. Let us take the voice of the Scots and Catalans seriously. Let us not remain indifferent and underestimate their voices, as we underestimated the voice of the Brexit at the time. Mr Prime Minister, will we respect the European choice of these countries and greet them as new Member States in the event of a vote in favour of these referendums? Is the new dynamic of enlargement also the subject of discussions at European level? What position do we take in that regard?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-16-54-plenair-ip161x.u20	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in some European countries there are indeed occasional questions, debates, discussions, political opinions on the institutional future. We must show respect for these democratic debates in Europe and certainly in some countries. There are also European rules. The rule of law, the constitutional order, in my view, are particularly important. There is, by the way, a great difference between the situation in Scotland and Catalonia. We need to take a nuanced look at this. I do not know whether a referendum will actually be organised in Scotland. I do not intend to give my opinion on any referendum that will go this way or that. Nor do I intend to interfere in an internal democratic debate. If the question is asked, it is the responsibility of the government concerned to defend a position. On that basis, I will then form my opinion.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-16-54-plenair-ip161x.u21	Prime Minister, it is important that, apart from all institutional and legal debates, we also hear a moral voice here. We have also expressed that moral voice in Turkey where democratically elected politicians are arrested and brought to justice. Let us not forget that in Spain, too, a democratically elected President was brought to justice and sentenced for civil disobedience when he did nothing but organise a democratic referendum. I understand that you want to show respect for the developments that are taking place there. I understand you want to show respect for the voice that was cast. However, I believe that this debate transcends national order and this calls for a moral statement to strengthen the credibility of the European Union and to encourage the respective regions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-16-54-plenair-ip161x.u22	Minister, as I predicted last week, Turkish organisations and parties would also take all kinds of initiatives this week in the context of the referendum on the extension of the power of President and tyrant Erdogan, which will take place in Turkey in April 2017. As I accused and predicted last week, this week we are confronted with a meeting in Antwerp and in Genk with the same speaker, organized by the same identical party, the MHP, closely related to the Grey Wolves. In Antwerp, the mayor, also under pressure from our party, declares that he bans the meeting. In Genk, a pro-Turkish mayor of CD&V origin states that he allows the same meeting with the same speaker. Once again, an announcement to counter-show is needed before the Turkish organisation decides not to allow the meeting to take place. It is obvious that such initiatives will be taken in many places in our country. It is therefore useful that we should do the same as the Netherlands, which is not to leave the issue to the arbitrary decision of one or other mayor and issue a clear directive from the federal government and from your office of Minister for the Interior, which the mayors also ask for, so that there is clarity and consistent political policy throughout our country. That is not the case. I would point out that this is in stark contrast to the policy that is being pursued, for example, in Germany and certainly in the Netherlands. The government takes firm action there and makes it clear that such meetings cannot take place in their country, regardless of whether it is a minister, a Member of Parliament or another politician.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-16-54-plenair-ip161x.u23	Mr Dewinter, I am trying to discover your question in your reference. I could repeat what I repeated last week, but I will not do that. In the interests of public policy, there are clear guidelines. We explained those guidelines, and we informed the mayors again last week. I note that there will be no meeting in both cases, which you mention. Before that, there has been contact between the two local mayors and the services of the Interior. We really didn't need the Flemish interest to maintain public order. We can do it ourselves.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-16-54-plenair-ip161x.u24	Minister, you take your words for reality. In Genk it was indeed the intention of the Turkish-minded CD&V mayor to allow the meeting to take place. It was only after we announced a counter-show that the Turkish organisation, akin to the Grey Wolves, made the decision not to allow the meeting to take place. That's the power of the opposition. Opposition works if all democratic means are exhausted. What shockes me in this matter is that you refuse to accept your responsibility and at no time condemn the behaviour of a large part of the Turkish community in our country. Following the demonstration in Ghent last week, I note that many of the Turks speak Turkish, eat Turkish, whip with Turkish political leaders and wave the Turkish flag. So my question is, what are these people actually still doing here? Shouldn't they return to their own country?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-16-54-plenair-ip161x.u25	Mr President, Minister, according to this morning's press, some 160 Belgians are now in the territories controlled by the Islamic State. Some of them would like to come back. Some would go so far as to say that they would like help. In my personal capacity, I would first provide this assistance to the victims of the attacks on Belgian territory. In any case, the information we received this morning raises the issue of managing the return of these fighters. In relation to this, it may be recalled at the outset that, under the leadership of the majority, this Assembly adopted article 140sexies of the Penal Code, which punishes the departures of foreign terrorists but also the return of individuals who are determined to perpetrate or contribute to the commission of attacks on our soil; it should also be recalled that other measures have been taken. The intelligence and security services have been strengthened. Deradex cells have been set up in prisons. Circulars have been adopted to facilitate the follow-up of returns. As Daesh recedes on the ground, there is a risk that the number of returns will increase. It is therefore important, Minister, to anticipate this movement, especially since, in parallel with this, the homegrown terrorist fighters are becoming a major concern in our country and an issue for our security services. Minister, how do I identify returns? What follow-up will be given to them by the police? A denial of access or confinement? I don't see so much of a third solution. What about the wives, the children of these jihadists? Is there any particular focus in the other Member States and in the Schengen area? Finally, what exactly does the recent phenomenon of homegrown terrorist fighters inspire?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-16-54-plenair-ip161x.u26	Mr Pivin, I am well aware of the situation in Iraq and Syria and the possible influx of returnees. Our services are following the situation closely, but there do not appear to be any mass returns at this time. At present – and these are yesterday's figures – only two foreign fighters are eventually on their way to Europe. They are not Belgians but Europeans. Persons in our foreign fighters database are subject to an international arrest warrant. As soon as they are entered in our database, so known as foreign fighters, they are immediately subject to an international arrest warrant. They will be apprehended during the identity check when they enter the Schengen area. Our services will be informed by the border services. In the context of the refugee crisis, external border controls have been significantly strengthened. Thanks to the 2015 circular, our own services benefit from strict follow-up directives within the local task force and the CSIL. The latter are in close contact with the services of the OCAM and the R unit. All information is shared in a very dynamic way. I have to tell you that legal proceedings were opened against each foreign fighter on his departure. This means that when he is apprehended by our services, he will be brought before the courts.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-16-54-plenair-ip161x.u27	Thank you, Minister. That's clear. Indeed, the message must be clear both for those who wish to return and for those who are already residing in Belgium or Europe and who are about to lead their jihad on our soil. In their regard, I believe that it is essential to continue to strengthen cooperation with neighbouring countries, with other European countries and also to strengthen the establishment of a transversal NRP covering all forms of transport on the territory or towards the territory.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-16-54-plenair-ip161x.u28	Mr Deputy Prime Minister, Minister for Foreign Affairs, many criticisms can be made of the proposed constitutional reform in Turkey and I refer to the very negative comments made by the Venice Commission. However, the subject of my question is not that one. My question concerns a subject which is surprising, which dismays our fellow citizens, namely the statements of President Erdogan. The MR has always called for Belgians abroad to be able to vote in general elections, and even in regional elections. We must also accept the idea that a debate can take place in our country in the context of an election campaign concerning a third country. But what is completely unacceptable, Mr Minister, is the statement made by President Erdogan against our European partners and, in this case, the Netherlands. I also stop for a second to pay tribute to the victory of the Liberals and environmentalists in the Netherlands yesterday. This is still an important signal for Europe. These statements made by President Erdogan, dealing with the Netherlands as a Nazi state or referring to the Dutch authorities as "paying the price", are completely unacceptable. Turkey has embarked on a process of denigrating the European institutions and the various Member States. Minister, what is your reading of this at least surprising attitude? What is your reaction to these Turkish statements, to this attitude of the current Turkish power, which in my opinion can only do one thing, namely to move Turkey away from the European Union more and more definitively?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-16-54-plenair-ip161x.u29	Mr President, Minister, it is no longer necessary to prove that Turkey's situation with President Erdogan is in serious error. Last year there was the coup, followed by the cleansing, the dismissal of judges and the taking over of municipal authorities and teachers who were dismissed for no reason. Then there will be a new proposal for constitutional revision, in which Erdogan not only wants to be president but also wants to take on party leader and all the powers of a prime minister. After that, as if that is not enough, the insults and, above all, the accusations against the Netherlands come to the attention of the whole of Europe: whether one is left, green, liberal or socialist, everyone is a Nazi and a fascist, everyone, from start to finish. In addition, he directly attacks the Dutch by saying that they are responsible for the slaughter of 8 000 people in Srebrenica. The highlight is that he is still so arrogant to go to the Council of Europe because he believes that the Netherlands has violated the human rights of Turkish ministers. We have heard a lot of measures in recent weeks with regard to Erdogan and Turkey, but we also have an arsenal of things that we can do ourselves. We can ban meetings if security and public order are compromised. We gave a unanimous signal here no longer than a few weeks ago that we believe that pre-accession aid to Turkey should be stopped. We can do something else: we could also bring a case before the Council of Europe against human rights violations in Turkey. Mr Secretary of State, that is why I have three questions. What about the freezing of pre-accession aid? Are we effectively considering freezing that 4.4 billion and thus sending a very strong signal to Erdogan's Turkey? What is the situation with regard to the cessation of the accession negotiations with Turkey? After all, I believe that no one believes in that anymore. Finally, Minister, what is your position on a matter before the Council of Europe? I really wonder whether we should not actively seek out European allies, other countries, to bring a case together at the Council of Europe or at the European Court of Human Rights against Turkey, as we have clear examples of human rights being violated there.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-16-54-plenair-ip161x.u30	Mr President, I have already commented on the success of the Liberal Prime Minister in the Netherlands. We have had many debates on the evolution in Turkey itself. I will deal with a number of elements. What is the European position? We have called for a freeze on the evolution of the accession negotiations. That must be unanimous. There are more and more partners who want the same thing. I am thinking of the transformation of the amounts available, such as support for civil society, direct aid to Turkey. We are trying to make progress in this area. The last European Council for External Relations was very positive, but it is difficult to reach a unanimous position. We saw this in the meetings on the next referendum in Turkey. It was possible in France, it was impossible in the Netherlands, it was possible in Sweden, it was impossible in Denmark. Several comments have been made on this. I would like to say something about the Belgian position. We have had the opportunity, together with the Prime Minister and the Minister of the Interior, to recall that for us, certain elements must play. You also recalled them: freedom of expression, freedom of demonstration, freedom of assembly, which must prevail even if we do not agree with the content of what is mentioned at the demonstrations and meetings. At the same time, there is also public order and security. As a first step, it is up to the mayors to decide on the organisation of demonstrations or meetings in their territory, based on an analysis of the security services, including the OCAM which is available to carry out this analysis. It has been seen in recent weeks that in Belgium and abroad, mayors decided not to allow certain rallies if public order was called into question. It is important to work in this direction. A few weeks ago, in his statements on Germany, President Erdogan referred to Nazism and fascism. Over the last few days he used the same reference for the Netherlands and also talked about Srebrenica. Such statements by President Erdogan are unacceptable. We have always said that. That's done and clear. For many mayors it may be an additional reason to have their doubts at any meetings or demonstrations. There may be reactions from other demonstrators against those statements made by President Erdogan. Such statements are unacceptable, and we must say so not only at Belgian level but also at European level. As far as the next steps are concerned, I hope that it will be possible to evolve into a calmer situation than is currently the case. Once again, statements such as those of recent days and weeks are totally unacceptable to us.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-16-54-plenair-ip161x.u31	Minister, thank you for your answer. I did not expect any less from you, given your attention to the defence of European values. However, I would like to reiterate, on behalf of our political group, that Mr Erdogan's statements are worrying. As you said, they are completely unacceptable, both from the Belgian and European point of view.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-16-54-plenair-ip161x.u32	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. If Erdogan is so arrogant to go to the Council of Europe without any arguments and without one human right being violated in the Netherlands, then I think that we in Europe should fight shoulder-to-shoulder against Turkey, that we should show shoulder-to-shoulder where it comes from and that we should actively consider making a complaint against Turkey ourselves. I think we should make it clear that we are not going to be messed with.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-16-54-plenair-ip161x.u33	Mr President, Minister, as you know, we will soon celebrate the 60th anniversary of the Treaty of Rome, the 60th anniversary of this beautiful adventure marked by reconciliation, the rapprochement of the peoples. Unfortunately, today we are far from it. There are now border hunters, wall builders in Europe. The PS will not accept any softness when it comes to European values. The sovereignty of States stops where treaties that the same States have voluntarily ratified begin. Once again, Hungary is making a statement about it by deciding to systematically detain all migrants entering that country. This decision clearly violates European and international law. Mr Minister, our country has a duty to address this issue in the Council, but also bilaterally. Indeed, you have been advocating for months for an effective mechanism to monitor compliance with European values by all Member States. We support you – as you know – in this process. But it must be noted that we do not see much coming. It is true that your wings must be cut when Mr Franken finds it hypocritical to condemn Hungary, to create legal roads and that he prohibits, for example, doctors of the Foreign Office from contacting specialists following asylum seekers, or when your N-VA partner wants to create a Belgian nationality on a conditional basis. Mr Minister, how can we understand that Hungary seems to be able to do what it sees fit with the treaties on both migration and human rights? What bi- and multilateral initiatives have you taken or intend to take to condemn this Hungarian decision that violates European fundamental values and international law?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-16-54-plenair-ip161x.u34	Mr President, Mr Crusnière, I will not recall the content of the decision which was adopted on 7 March 2017 by the Hungarian Parliament, unfortunately by an overwhelming majority: 138 votes in favour, barely a few against and a few abstentions. It is indeed a decision to set up centres at the Serbian border and at the Croatian border, to impose the retention of persons in these centres, except unaccompanied minors – there is one exception – and, moreover, with a return to the border of persons who could be found in an illegal situation in the country. First thing. This text is not in force. It will most likely be as early as the end of April. Second thing. Commissioner Avramopoulos will visit Budapest. The reaction we must ask is for the European Commission to start a discussion with the Hungarian authorities on the subject. Unfortunately, this is not the first time we have to start this discussion. As I have done on other issues concerning other countries, we hope that the debate will come at some point on the Council table. I was before yesterday in Poland, yesterday in Belarus. There is no lack of debate in these two countries on the rule of law and respect for individual rights. What we can and will do is ask the Commission to present its position to the Council. I repeat this and thank you for your support; beyond that, I remain convinced that, as long as we wait until we have to discuss a specific problem in a country before we talk about the rule of law and individual rights, we will not make progress. There is no reason why we should have such a thorough debate on the economic and budgetary situation of the Member States and that we do not have, at the same time, a periodic review of the rule of law in each of the European countries. I've been asking since February last year. We now have more than half of the Member States joining us. I am very pleased to see that the European Parliament also joins us. I think we should now work in the same direction with the national parliaments. Only a real periodic review of the rule of law, individual rights and democratic systems in the European states every year will really make it possible to move forward, otherwise we will have superficial debates on the situation of one state and another.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-16-54-plenair-ip161x.u35	Minister, thank you for your answers. I share most of the things you have said, but I think, unfortunately, that in your government not everyone has the same vision. I would remind you that being a member of the European Union means respecting values. We do not do what we want with the European charters and treaties, nor do we dislike Mr Orban and his conservative friends. Europe is not a Bancontact, a distributor of funds, it is above all a project of peace and solidarity. Measures and sanctions must therefore be taken quickly in the face of this kind of liberticide regime. I regret that Parliament rejected an initiative to condemn infringements of the rule of law in Poland. It is true that in order to be legitimate in this fight for European values, this implies an irreproachable policy for this government. But I have serious doubts about the policy of some members of this government.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-16-54-plenair-ip161x.u36	Mr. Secretary, after two weeks of staying in a hospital, you can finally go home. The doctor said you still need a lot of rest, and you want to do it at home. You come home and see that your own home is inhabited by someone else. You call the police, and the police tell you that you will face a long and difficult procedure just because you want to return to your own home again. That's absurd, isn't it, Minister? The world turned upside down. You can't do this! People aren't completely powerless. They can go to the court of peace, but even then it will take at least a dozen days for them to understand me well in their own home. Minister, I am very pleased to hear that you and the government are finally recognising this problem and that you are working on a solution. The sp.a. Group has also drafted a bill that makes the cracking of an inhabited house a criminal offence. Thanks to this criminality, the police will be able to take very firm action not only to bring the person who entered a house but also the people who resided there out of the house, so that the owner can return to his own house the same day. But, Minister, I'm concerned. 'Cause what am I reading in the paper today? I read that the time you give the squatters to leave another property inhabited by those squatters would be 10 days. Who in God's name can understand that if someone else is staying in your own house, you have to wait 10 days? Minister, I have one question. Why do you choose a solution that doesn't change the time limit to evict squatters from an inhabited home?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-16-54-plenair-ip161x.u37	Mrs Lambrecht, you must excuse me, but I do not know whether we are talking about the same Belgian law and the same proposal. In Belgian law, at the moment, housing is criminally sanctioned by Article 439 of the Criminal Code. You're saying this isn't a criminal offence. That's a criminal offense. By the way, I do not know so many cases of people going on vacation for two weeks and then seeing their house occupied. I think that is a rather dramatic presentation of the situation, but if so, I am sure that every mayor has an immediate solution to it. Otherwise, he's not worth being called mayor. I'm truly sorry. If and to the extent that there is no desecration, because no one lives in the building, then we have the proposal that the majority will make, a proposal that will lead to it becoming a complaint crime. It goes without saying that when a property is completely wasted by a speculator, the government does not benefit so much from being able to punish that crime in any way. It makes sense that it will only be punished if there is a complaint. So it will be punished if there is a complaint. The prosecutor may immediately issue an exorcism order before the sentence is pronounced. If we fail to do so, if the police do not succeed in expelling these people, we can immediately appeal to the Justice of the Peace. He will decide the exorcism within two to eight days, as the case may be. We have greatly reduced the time limits for exorcism in the relevant article of the Court's Code. We have provided for additional criminal sanctions if an uninhabited property would be the object of squatting. I think we have a very good proposal. Maybe you can still improve it.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-16-54-plenair-ip161x.u38	Minister, I do not use the great legal terms. I'm not a lawyer. I'm a guy who thinks that if someone is in my property and I want to get back into my property, this has to go fast. The sp.a has written down a solution in a bill in which we also referred you to Article 439 of the Criminal Code, which seeks to criminalise the creaking of inhabited houses. We want to make it a criminal offence not only when the intrusion has been established in the act, but also when it is found that there is a stay in the house. That's where the nuance is. However, I am hopeful, Minister. We ask for speed, not two to eight days. We ask the day itself to be able to return to our own house when others are in it. Mr. Secretary, I brought our bill. I'd like to give it to you for inspiration.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-16-54-plenair-ip161x.u39	Mr President, Minister, about a year ago I was standing here following the arrest of Salah Abdeslam and the press leaks that were there and which you also strongly condemned at the time. Today we know what the consequences can be. Everyone today assumes that in the attacks of 22 March 2016, the premature coverage led to the terrorists attacking Belgium prematurely. We know the consequences, Minister. The consequences are dramatic, not only for the family members of the deceased and the victims themselves, but also for a large number of people who are in daily contact with research and who have provided assistance on the ground. Minister, the investigation is still ongoing today. Minister, you will understand my concern when, last weekend in the newspaper, spread over four pages, I received fragments from the criminal investigation and, not least, very important information found on the terrorists' computer. I spoke to you about this immediately. Yesterday on the committee, you informed me that the federal prosecutor, questioned by you, stated that the information did not come from the federal prosecutor's office. He reported that he himself was surprised to have to read it with so much detail in the press. He considered that the notice in question indeed violates the investigation. Mr. Secretary, the media are fast. Last night, shortly after the committee, there was a broadcast about the investigation following the attacks of 22 March 2016. To my surprise, I heard the federal prosecutor speak and heard sound recordings from the investigation. We are talking about direct sound recordings at the moment of the facts between the taxi driver concerned and the terrorists. Once again, we are dealing with fragments from the investigation. Mr. Secretary, I don't understand anymore. So you have to understand my questions. What was and is the role of the federal prosecutor? Did he provide the information as part of the coverage? What's next with the violation of the investigation? As we see it interpreted today, you need to adjust. Will you contact the parquets about that?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-16-54-plenair-ip161x.u40	Mrs Van Cauter, your question was a little too long.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-16-54-plenair-ip161x.u41	Mrs Van Cauter, know that it is a constant concern of me how our prosecutors, the seat, are dealing, of course, with total independence and with judicial information by journalists. In the discussions I have with them, both with the associations of journalists and with the public prosecutors and with their seats, I emphasize this repeatedly. In this case, I asked the federal prosecutor if the information provided came from the judicial authorities. I quote from his reply: "The information that came to light during this reportage comes from the journalists' own sources, which is why the federal prosecutor had asked for this to be mentioned explicitly at the start of the reportage. About previous coverage of the attacks in the press last week, the federal prosecutor was surprised that so much detail was communicated. Such detailed reporting could harm the file. You also know, Mrs Van Cauter, that Article 285 of the Potpourri V bill, which we tabled with the government, proposes a very strong increase in sanctions for breach of professional secrecy, so that prison sentences even increase to three years. You also know that we are faced with the source secret, which guarantees the independence of journalism in this country. That is a good thing for a democracy. I refer to the law of 7 April 1995. I won't stop competing with you. I hope that the sharp increase in penalties in potpourri V will contribute to this, but I remain at my disposal to seek even better regulation.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-16-54-plenair-ip161x.u42	Minister, we are on the same side in the fight against the violation of professional secrecy. I'd still like to ask you to have another conversation with the federal attorney. I do not understand why we are faced with the violation of professional secrecy, but then cooperates on such a broadcast, whereas the source of the infringement must actually be sought. You know as well as I do that things can go wrong quickly. That is why I hope I will not have to question you again next year.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-16-54-plenair-ip161x.u43	Mr. Secretary, yesterday was the day again. A 15-year-old was released twice after thefts for lack of space in the French-speaking youth institutions. This problem is not just about minors, because it is structural. It also happens very often that adults come to Flemish Brabant to commit crimes and that they are not subsequently arrested by Brussels French-speaking judges. This time it is the Flemish police zone of Red who is suing that such situations are really demotivating. I can believe that very well. I come to the heart of the problem. How is it that after committing crimes in Flanders, namely in Halle-Vilvoorde, people appear before French-speaking Brussels judges? It was the commitment of the sixth state reform and of the division of the judicial district to break down with lax judges and to allow the Halle-Vilvoorde parish to conduct a tailor-made policy. None of that has been realized, however. When a crime is committed in Halle-Vilvoorde and one speaks French, one still comes before French-speaking Brussels judges. I've always warned about that, but they sold something else. With a lot of acting talent, I admit that the citizens are trying to tell us that the judicial district was split. This is not just about state reform, Minister. This is also about safety. My questions to you are the following. How long will the security of the inhabitants of Halle-Vilvoorde depend on French-speaking Brussels judges? How long will the security of the inhabitants of Halle-Vilvoorde depend on whether or not there is room in French-speaking youth institutions? I believe that that part of Flanders also has a right to safety. By the way, that young person should have appeared before a Dutch-speaking juvenile judge, but there would have been room in the Flemish institution of Everberg. What will you do, Minister, to ensure security in Halle-Vilvoorde?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-16-54-plenair-ip161x.u44	Mr Vuye, you have blocked me. I didn't think those facts would have led to your question. However, it is your right and I will try to answer it. First of all, I thought you were addressing me as Minister of Justice. If it were merely a penitentiary institution for a majority, I would remind you that prisons do not apply the numerus-clausu principle or the hotel principle and that I am therefore happy to accept with other persons when a provisional detention is required in such a case. I think it is important for citizens to understand that closed foreign centres and youth institutions operate on the basis of the numerus-clausu principle, while a prison does not do so, that there are good reasons for that and that in this case it was a minor person, who obviously needs to be able to be taken in good conditions. As far as the division of the judicial district of Brussels-Halle-Vilvoorde is concerned, it is not the first time that I have been asked the question you are asking. It has also happened once before that the Brussels investigating judge was a few minutes late to apprehend someone who had been arrested in Halle-Vilvoorde and put him under arrest. Mr Vuye, I have the impression that I did not know it would be your question, but now that I see it afterwards, I should have known that the split works quite well, all in all. It is true that in Brussels there is a somewhat different mentality towards small crime, which I do not want to say is negligible than in Halle-Vilvoorde itself. This is particularly true throughout Flanders. In the long term, therefore, the question will arise, which was present under the skin of what you said, namely what the evolution that Belgium has been going through since 1970 will bring us. We are young enough to experience this together in Parliament, I am sure.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-16-54-plenair-ip161x.u45	In any case, Minister, I am pleased that you are also aware that there is a different mentality. Gradually, there is a growing awareness that the sixth state reform is a disillusionment, that the division of the judicial arrondissement is a complete illusion. Every day, Mr Van Biesen, it appears that when French-speaking people come to Halle-Vilvoorde to commit crimes, they subsequently come to French-speaking magistrates. That problem is structural. You will not solve it with a new potpourriwet; you will certainly not solve that problem with 10 years of Community standstill. You will certainly not solve the problem with that; you will solve the problem with a state reform. I do hope that we will both see a real division of the judicial arrondissement, because that part of Flemish Brabant also has the right to security. Halle-Vilvoorde also has a right to safety. Once again, it is proof that a state reform is not a delusion, but has a lot to do with security, too.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-16-54-plenair-ip161x.u46	Mr President, Madam Minister, the students of our universities and high schools are already under blockade. It's not easy, we know it. For many, we have lived it. But for first and second Bac Médecine students, it's even worse because they still don't know if they'll have the opportunity to practice their future profession. They're not sure they have an INAMI number. I'm not going to remind you of the whole political and legal mess in the case. I would just like to point out that you have achieved a rather disastrous double blow. Your decision on the INAMI quotas, which were stoning francophones, was broken by the Council of State and this had consequences for the competition that the Wallonia-Brussels Federation wanted to organise. Don't let that happen! Minister Marcourt and members of his government return to work with the desire to serve students. Even if they are not at all convinced, they approve, against their will, the organization of an entry examination. In addition, you have made a commitment to certify in a royal decree that every student who comes out in 2021 and 2022 will have his INAMI number. You also indicated that you would work on another order for the 2023 et seq. quotas. Today, the Wallonia-Brussels Federation is fulfilling its share of the commitment. The government agreed on the medical entry examination and this was voted by the Education Committee last Tuesday. My question is simple. Where are you with your share of commitment? We're waiting for a date. Above all, we expect you to stop playing with the stress of the students!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-16-54-plenair-ip161x.u47	Mr President, Madam Minister, may I begin with a heartfelt hallelujah. Hallelujah! After 20 very long years, Mrs. Onkelinx, there is finally an entrance exam on the French-speaking side. Hallelujah! With a healthy dose of naivety and if we also forget what has been communicated about it by Minister Marcourt, perhaps we can call it moving forward with a great deal of goodwill. Madam Minister, I would like to see it first, before I will believe it. You'll excuse me, given the history of that file. Anyway, the first step has indeed been taken. It is true that the federal government has agreed in principle at the outset to solve this dossier once and for all. The government also wanted to solve all the consequences of this dossier once and for all, because these consequences are not minor. It is a question of health care costs that we all pay for. In Flanders, more than 4 000 families are frustrated every year because their son or daughter cannot start training. The overall agreement must mean that the total number of more than 3 000 doctors on the Walloon side will finally be paid back, in the foreseeable future, that the entrance examination will last and that, at least, we believe, the 60/40 division between the two Communities will be maintained. I know there is an opinion coming from the Planning Committee, but I will repeat what I said earlier. I am very grateful to the Planning Committee for the work, Mrs Onkelinx, I am very grateful that the real need for doctors in our country is being mapped out. However, I do not follow the parameters used by the Planning Committee for the 60/40 distribution between Flanders and Wallonia. Those parameters actually institutionalize the current imbalances, created by your non-policy. For this reason, I believe that the 60/40 distribution between the Communities should be maintained. Madam Secretary, it's actually a little now or never, it's all or nothing. If French-speaking Belgium still wants to continue to pursue its own policy, then healthcare must be transferred to a different level of policy, but then they will have to pay for the consequences themselves. I regret that this is not the case today, but as long as health remains a federal matter, the law is the same for all Belgians. Madam Minister, I would therefore like to ask you when the global agreement will come? I know that you have reached agreement in principle with the various parties. Can we expect that global agreement soon? After all, it's really the last chance.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-16-54-plenair-ip161x.u48	Mr President, Madam Minister, the framework has just been recalled. There was indeed a political agreement and the entry examination almost finished its legislative path since only the vote in plenary session remains. My colleague from the N-VA referred to figures. May I point out that if N-VA likes to tap on future graduates in French-language medicine and dentistry, your responsibility or even your duty is to ensure that public health needs are met on an objective basis. These bases made by the Planning Commission have shown that there is a particular risk of shortages for certain specialities and at the level of certain regions. Minister, what about respect for the political agreement? This question concerns all students. I would also like to ask you a question on a more serious point. Indeed, there is an urgent need in this area. I refer to the decision of the Council of Ministers of 23 December 2016. On that occasion, you had clearly announced that those medical and dental students who are now in their final year of study, who will have completed their studies in three months' time, and who are now in the process of completing their specialty or general medical examination, would be awarded their INAMI number. Will you, yes or no, respect, Madam Minister, the decision of December 23rd? I recall here that the Prime Minister had made it clear in December that last-year students would have their INAMI number. Yes or no, will they receive it? In any case, today the concerns of these students are of great importance. Their uncertainty is at the top. The deans of the medical schools, moreover, questioned you and the Prime Minister, a few days ago, in an open letter. Minister, the students are waiting for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-16-54-plenair-ip161x.u49	Mijnheer de voorzitter, Mrs Onkelinx, mevrouw Van Peel, Mrs Fonck, as you know, it has been more than two years since the government worked hard to solve this issue, a matter that has a long history, in which you have also played a role. At the Council of Ministers of 15 September 2015 concerning the Royal Decree on the quota of doctors for 2022, it was pointed out that the introduction of an entry examination by the French Community was the ultimate condition for finding a comprehensive solution in this case. Indeed, last Wednesday, at the third and last reading, the draft decree establishing an entrance examination in the French Community was adopted. So this condition was finally met. That is indeed an important step, as Mrs Van Peel says. It is an important achievement that, after two and a half years, Minister Marcourt has succeeded in making that effort. In accordance with the provisions of the notification, discussions within the federal government were restarted. A global and sustainable solution is now being developed within the shortest possible time frame. Be aware that the government is aware of the urgency of the situation. We will quickly take initiatives to issue the additional university certificates to students who will complete their medical studies at the end of this academic year. Yes, Mrs. Fonck, you can reassure the students, I did it in the media as well. If the last-year students have passed their studies, they will have their INAMI number.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-16-54-plenair-ip161x.u50	Minister, I find this incredible! While you have committed yourself to making an order allowing all first- and second-level students to have their number, while the Community has made its part of the way by voting in committee the entrance examination – it is a bad solution but it has wanted to protect its students – I ask for a date and you are still not in a position to give it. The students are in the middle of a blockade and they still don't know anything! You really play with the students' feet and you don't play the concertation game. Furthermore, you do not say a word about the future decision on future quotas. You promised here that you would respect the planning commission; you fell down to the demands of the N-VA and you were broken by the Council of State. It is a habit: you have just been broken by the Constitutional Court for your law on psychotherapy. I am extremely disappointed. You don't bring any solution, and I will come every week until I get a certainty about the date of the decree that will finally protect our students.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-16-54-plenair-ip161x.u51	Mr President, Minister, Mrs Onkelinx, if those students in French-speaking Belgium are in uncertainty today, that is your responsibility. How dare you stand here again and again? It's because you've been telling them for 20 years that the federal law you've passed with them doesn't apply to them because you refuse to take an entrance exam. Mrs Onkelinx, I will startle you, because I would like to compliment you. I have incredibly much admiration for how you have managed to play the victim here over and over in this file, while you and your party are the culprit and the reason why we are here today. I think it's worth a 10 out of 10 in acting performance, but politically it's poignant and scandalous.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-16-54-plenair-ip161x.u52	Madam Minister, first of all, I hear your commitment. It is taken here, in the middle of the Chamber. It therefore binds you, as well as the Prime Minister and the entire government. You have made a commitment that students who are now in the final year of dentistry will get their INAMI number. There's three months left. It's fundamental. I hope that this commitment will not be distorted. I think it's important that you write it down. Indeed, the deans of medical schools wrote to you last week. Then, students in the other years, from the first to the sixth, are waiting for a global decision. I hear the pirouettes. I hear the accusations, on both sides, about responsibility. I believe that overall political responsibility is major. We can obviously explore the past infinity. What matters today is to stop this incessant ping-pong game between power levels. The Community's share of agreement has been respected by the Community, Madam Minister. May you, for your part, and that of the French-speaking Prime Minister, undertake to carry out your part of the contract. The stakes in this issue are students, the organization of health care, doctors and dentists who will be graduating this year, but also all those who follow their student career.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-16-54-plenair-ip161x.u53	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, last week we heard that Belgium is the only country in Europe where purchasing power is falling. Thanks to this government and its index jump. That drop isn't just about the shopping cart that has less in it for the same money. As if that is not bad enough, it is also about much more fundamental matters. Unfortunately, it will be a bitter day of care. I am referring to your savings in health care, Madam Secretary, in particular the 250 million you saved on doctors and physicists. Because of these savings, you will not get an agreement on the rates. Since the end of the chord with the kinesists the supplements at those kinesists rose spectacularly. I have a few examples. For a relatively simple something, back pain or a simple break, a simple series of sessions at the kine, people now pay 50 to 80 euros more in supplements, depending on whether it happens in the cabinet of the physicist or at their home. For a slightly more complicated matter, so a somewhat longer series of sessions, this is about EUR 160 to EUR 260 additional supplements, Madam Secretary. In other words, the patient is well on his way to pay the 250 million in savings. Madam Secretary, that is your political responsibility. I've warned you about that phenomenon many times here. You kept saying that the patient of those savings wouldn't feel anything. Unfortunately, we see the opposite. You still have time, Madam Secretary. I urge you to accept your responsibility, please sit back at the table with the kinesis and negotiate rates so that patients do not have to cough up.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-16-54-plenair-ip161x.u54	Mr. Chair, Madam Minister, what is fundamental to health care is to ensure patient tariff safety. And there is a danger – our colleague has just mentioned it – because there is a blockage in the system of consultation because you have imposed significant savings on the indexation of healthcare providers, 250 million euros, we have just pointed out. Since mid-December, physiotherapists have been waiting. In fact, I asked the question, which comes back to the question of topicality, on 17 January. It should have been dealt with in committee because there is no tariff agreement. This is also the case with dentists. This is the case with the agreement which is denounced by two medical unions. They can therefore set the tariffs as they see fit. It is never seen in a consultation system like ours and it is the patients who are penalized because they pay more for what they are less reimbursed for. Nor do I have time to present the figures to you, but I can, with the supporting figures, tell you that there has been an increase in supplements among physiotherapists, dentists and medical specialists. One in five patients is now finding that their care is delayed due to a lack of financial resources. Without agreement, tariff security is being undermined. This is a worrying situation. We've been firing the alarm bell for several weeks. Minister, are you going to unblock the situation? To understand each other, you have to talk to each other. But the real question is this: do you really want to unlock this situation?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-16-54-plenair-ip161x.u55	Mrs Jiroflée, Mr Senesael, at its meeting on 27 February the Insurance Committee adopted a text of an individual convention which will be submitted to all physiotherapists, including those who are not members of the association. A covenant has been added containing the commitments entered into between the representatives of the Insurance Committee and the representatives of the physiotherapists. The establishment of a task force within the Insurance Committee is also envisaged. That task force should draw up a long-term vision. The representative of the physiotherapists in the Insurance Committee co-signed this covenant. On March 10, a letter was sent to all the physicists to explain this covenant. We expect the number of convening providers to be counted by mid-April. This individual convention is valid for one year, with retroactive effect from 1 January, so that the physiotherapists who join can safeguard their right to a social status. The individual convention contains various measures that are beneficial to both patients and physiotherapists. We will also take action on personal assessed contributions, which will be included in the maximum amount to be billed (MAF). I have made considerable efforts in collaboration with the INAMI services and my strategic unit to reach both an individual agreement and this agreement. I will continue to invest in a constructive dialogue with physiotherapists to seek solutions for the future of the profession and especially for the benefit of the patient's tariff security. I also asked the deputy head of INAMI to prepare the agenda for the task force and to set the timetable for future consultations. The consultations therefore continue, Mrs Jiroflée. It would also be good if you speak the same language within your affiliated sickness funds. They voted against the agreement and are therefore responsible for this debacle with the kinesis. I'm sure you're not speaking to those people. There was a time when there was parliamentary contact with the sickness fund of its own political nature. Apparently that time is over.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-16-54-plenair-ip161x.u56	Madam Secretary, these are the figures of this mutuality that is related to me. This isn't a manipulated image. Since the termination of the chords, the supplements have gone up spectacularly. These are the numbers of that mutuality. Half of the kinesis already charge supplements and they charge more and more supplements. Axxon calls for that, and you know it as well as I do. As long as they continue to do so because they do not agree with the savings, you bear the political responsibility, not me or the so-called affiliated sickness funds. You have the political responsibility!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-16-54-plenair-ip161x.u57	Thank you, Madam Minister. We take note of the efforts made with regard to consultation. If we have come to this point, you have made our health care the main budgetary adjustment variable of your government. Because of your stubbornness, you lead our health care system into the wall. And, in addition, you are undermining the accessibility of patient care. This is not about misinformation on our part, as you sometimes try to make it believe, in any case in the media. And it's not the fact of the healthcare professionals either, as you suggest on social networks. Who is responsible for this situation? It is you, Madam Minister, with your government, because your real focus is not really the patient. I hear you say in committee that you have to take his evil in patience. Minister, put the well-being of patients in an emergency!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-16-54-plenair-ip161x.u58	Mr President, Madam Minister, as we await the energy pact announced since the beginning of the legislature, the federal and three regions' energy ministers met yesterday to present the progress of the work of the four working groups. Ministers agreed to a next working meeting on 26 April, following which the consultation of the various stakeholders, as is said in the jargon, will be initiated, which will be as broad as possible. Minister, what is the status of the work of the four working groups? Could we say more about this consultation of the various stakeholders? What form will it take? Will it be wide? Will civil society be consulted? What timing for this consultation? How will you integrate parliamentary work into this process? This seems to me to be a fundamental question, knowing that the Committee on the Economy has scheduled hearings on the subject of the energy pact. Do you intend to integrate the problem of support for gas plants into the working group dedicated to production?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-16-54-plenair-ip161x.u59	My colleague, your questions are obviously extremely extensive. The subject is also very rich. I'm going to try to answer it in time. Where are we now? You said it at the second meeting. Following a collective decision, each minister was responsible for a particular theme; he or she presented to others the findings and challenges to be considered in this theme. I would like to point out that this concerns production for the Flemish Region, interconnection and flexibility for the Federal Republic, governance for the Brussels Region and the functioning of the market for the Walloon Region. We decided to have our teams work until April 26, the date of our third meeting, which will take place at Céline Fremault, since our presidency is rotating. The idea is to combine these documents into a coherent whole so that we can bring them all to the consultation of the stakeholders, after our meeting on 26 April and as long as we succeed in aggregating these documents in a coherent and visionary way. Stakeholders, or stakeholders, belong to two orders, or even three. Some can be classified in the institutional section: the Plan Office, the National Bank, regulators. Others are the market players involved in production and distribution. Finally, there is civil society, organised or not. We obviously favour organised civil society, through associations and NGOs. All these people will be able to be consulted according to a methodology and timing that we will decide at our meeting on 26 April. It's not decided yet. As far as Parliament is concerned, I will, of course, be following very carefully the hearings that will take place there, so that I can use the substantial melee and bring it back to my colleagues. They will do the same, because in other parliaments similar debates exist, to feed our work as much as possible. Gas-fired power stations will certainly be part of the reflection in this context. I believe I have covered all the issues within the deadline.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-16-54-plenair-ip161x.u60	Only a little too long!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-16-54-plenair-ip161x.u61	Madam Minister, you took a minute and a half to explain the procedure, but I expected a more concrete answer to the questions asked. It is important to move forward quickly, but also concretely in the field. That's what I'm worried about, and that's what I wanted to draw your attention to. The energy challenges are important, and we are all aware of them. The answers will have to be found in the pact which will not be satisfied with a mere declaration of good intentions. The stakeholders, civil society and Parliament are waiting more than just a copy-paste of the Climate Energy Plan that Belgium is due to return to the European Commission this year. They're waiting for real decisions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-16-54-plenair-ip161x.u62	Minister, the security of Congolese citizens is getting worse day after day, to the extent that 11.11.11 called yesterday to suspend the Belgian-Congolese military cooperation. The reason for this call is, of course, the atrocities of Congolese soldiers in the central provinces of Congo and even beyond. Two weeks ago, we asked for an international, independent investigation. Minister Reynders also made this appeal to the Congolese Government. We still have cooperation with the Congolese army today. We are in the process of reforming the security sector in the context of EU operations, we are also accompanying the command of the military academy in Kananga. New Belgian soldiers were due to leave in early June. The question is, do these soldiers have to travel today? I think it would be better to postpone this until we are sure that the Congolese military we have trained have not been involved in the atrocities against the citizens. Two weeks ago, Mr Luykx said that crimes should be punished in uniform, hence my questions. International research is crucial. Minister Reynders has also called for this. Has that international, independent research started yet? We must wait for the results of that investigation and see if it does not have an impact on our cooperation with the Congolese army. What evaluation do you make of this cooperation today? Is she okay? In what way does she happen? Do you confirm that there have been no Congolese military of battalions trained by us involved in the atrocities?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-16-54-plenair-ip161x.u63	Mrs Van Hoof, thank you for your question. Today we do not have any information as to whether the Congo itself has launched an investigation. However, we know that today, within the framework of the United Nations Human Rights Council in Geneva, there is a resolution on an international investigation that will be voted on today. I believe that an international investigation is crucial to determine what our future attitude will be towards the Democratic Republic of Congo. It is, of course, easy to say today that we must stop military cooperation. Within Defence, within the Cabinet and the Inter-Kabinette Working Group, we regularly update and make evaluations of our various international military collaborations. Many adjustments have been made in recent years. For example, since 2015 we are no longer permanently working on the Kananga school but on a project basis. As for your specific question about the Congolese who have been trained by our people, my information today is that it is very unlikely. We have been involved in the units of the 31st URR brigade. It's in North Kivu today, between Goma and Beni. That is 1 200 km from the place where these unacceptable acts of violence took place a few weeks ago. This is an investigation that I immediately requested because it is of course essential that our contribution in the Democratic Republic of Congo does not lead to wrong things. However, I would like to conclude by saying that I believe in a 3D approach to such problems, defence, diplomacy and development. That is why I believe that the early cessation of cooperation might be overreacting. It is crucial to wait for international research to be able to take the right measures on this basis.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-16-54-plenair-ip161x.u64	Thank you for the news that this resolution is before us in Geneva. That international research is crucial, that must be done. An analysis must be made of the international investigation to see if there has been any Belgian formation of the military there who committed these atrocities. According to you, they're 1 200 km away, but battalions are also trained in the east. There are not only atrocities in the central provinces but everywhere in the country. Plenary session after plenary session, we advocate a critical attitude towards the Congolese Government because they do not organise presidential elections or use delaying tactics. We must take action and impose individual sanctions on this impunity. We and your party must send out a strong signal and act against impunity for the atrocities of Congolese soldiers. I hope that you will do the same and that you will evaluate what that international research is doing.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-16-54-plenair-ip161x.u65	Mr President, I would like to begin by congratulating Mrs Demir on her appointment as Secretary of State. Madam Secretary of State, I notice that you flew in immediately. You have appointed the Pool Secretariat responsible for managing the Princess Elisabeth Pool Base. We all know that there have been many problems with the polar base for a long time. That was already the case during the previous government, but the problems have escalated during the mandate of your predecessor Elke Sleurs. Indeed, during her period of policy, we have been fooled from one court to another. That's too bad. This has even led to a sad highlight, in particular that the Belgian scientific mission could not continue at the end of last year. This week you have taken a first step towards a solution. [[You had to, of course, in view of the penalty payment of EUR 5 000 per day that the policy cell was not compiled.]] After all, you have created the Pool Secretariat, which includes people from the IPF, with Alain Hubert, but also with your head of the cabinet who is its chairman. That is why I would like to ask you the following questions. Firstly, there is a different reason than that of the penalty payment why you have put together this policy council. Secondly, and more importantly, what future do you see for the pool base? Is it intended to move towards a global, sustainable solution? If so, what role will Belgium play in this? Finally, how much did all the legal proceedings that have already been initiated cost?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-16-54-plenair-ip161x.u66	Mr President, Mr Van Peteghem, I did indeed approve yesterday the appointment decision of the Policy Council that I set up for the Pool Secretariat. In view of the history of the dossier, I am pleased that you are asking a question. It also seems logical to me that I should try to stay away from all kinds of periodic penalty payments as far as possible. Even apart from the verdict, because you know that several legal proceedings have been initiated, I want to stay away from the legal jousting. Maybe my background as a lawyer has some advantages, but I don't like going to court. If we can handle business, we have to. The appointment of a new policy council is part of this vision. First of all, we place the importance of scientific research first. I would like to underline that. In this respect, I will continue to work on a structural solution for the management of the South Pole base, respecting the interests of all parties, and in particular those of scientific research in the South Pole. I hope to be able to come to Parliament soon with a complete solution in this dossier. You asked about the role of the federal state. Firstly, to facilitate scientific research at the South Pole, I think. To this end, I am also working towards an Ivzw, with the federal state of course remaining one of the partners. With regard to rumors about tourist trips to the polar base, I can be quite clear in that the South Pole is for scientific research and not for commercial or tourist activities. The accusations in this regard have caused the necessary international unrest. There has been an international inspection and I hope that I will receive a report on this very soon. Your final question concerned the legal costs of the various proceedings. For the record, I am not in favour of legal proceedings, because they take a lot of time, energy and money. To date, this case has cost EUR 600 000 in court fees. I hope, in the interests of scientific research, that we will soon be able to find a structural solution for the whole of the polar base.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-16-54-plenair-ip161x.u67	Madam Secretary of State, thank you for your reply. EUR 600 000 is indeed a very high amount. It is a good thing that you are looking for a sustainable solution that will bring some peace and serenity to the debate. I hope that you will solve with the same drive, attitude and sense other files that you have left on the table or found in the handover of the cabinet. I am thinking, among other things, of the reform of science policy and of the problems in the administration of the Directorate-General for Persons with Disabilities.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-16-54-plenair-ip161x.u68	End of oral questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-16-54-plenair-ip161x.u69	Proposals tabled by: Proposals submitted by: - 413: Damien Thiéry, Benoît Piedboeuf, Luc Gustin - 1289: André Frédéric, Daniel Senesael, Alain Mathot, Laurette Onkelinx. I propose that a single discussion be devoted to these motions for resolutions. I propose that you devote a single discussion to these motions for resolutions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-16-54-plenair-ip161x.u70	The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (413/8) The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (413/8) The meeting's open. The discussion is open. The rapporteur is Mrs Fonck, who refers to her written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-16-54-plenair-ip161x.u71	Mr President, ministers, ladies and gentlemen, as you know, my group had seven proposals on orthodontist care as its priority. My excellent colleague Mr Thiéry, who is listening to me, I am sure, had also drawn up a text on the subject. He agreed to join us. What a beautiful image to see the opposition and the majority in this way! It is true that the majority took a little time. She was a little hesitant. She had to consult, not immediately finding the point of the proposal. But finally, after reflection and wisdom, she agreed to work on a text. Having said that, unfortunately, I have the impression, in the view of the members present in plenary session and in view of those who do not listen, that there is little interest in the subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-16-54-plenair-ip161x.u72	I'm listening.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-16-54-plenair-ip161x.u73	Mrs. Onkelinx, I know you're still listening to me. Yet the subject is extremely important in that it concerns thousands of families in our country. It should be noted that 40 per cent of children between the ages of 10 and 14 are receiving orthodontic treatment in Belgium. The cost of each treatment - the amount is challenging - amounts to between 500 and 5,000 euros with, on average, a reimbursement of 800 euros of health care insurance. It should also be recalled that one in five Belgians carry forward their health care, their pharmaceutical care, mainly for reasons of cost, with dental care being the most often postponed to later. It is known, however, that such care is essential. Indeed, certain specific dental problems have important and even vital consequences for the health of patients. Progress is therefore needed to improve access to dental care. In spite of the interventions of health care insurance and the progress achieved in recent years, this care remains, in some cases, very high. With regard to costs, there are many reasons. Among these, there is the fact that a significant number of dentists are not contracted. The supplements applied are therefore important in many cases, especially with regard to orthodontic management. And the fact that the patient must advance the entire amount before being reimbursed by his mutual is another obstacle, also a brake. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is done! We have again tabled an amendment which, unfortunately, has been rejected in committee and which aims to set up a third party paying for the medical benefits provided by the dentist, and this is primarily for the beneficiaries of the increased intervention and the young people up to 18 years of age. Ladies and gentlemen, if you have yet another burst of wisdom, I imagine you may be able to vote on this amendment earlier in the plenary. This part which is dependent on the patient, which he must pay, Monsieur de Lamotte, pending reimbursement by the mutuals, remains obviously an important obstacle. We will therefore see what you will do with our amendment. The text is very simple. He called on the Government to provide better reimbursement of orthodontic care for children, adolescents and adults, and a different reimbursement depending on the severity of the needs. The government is also asked to analyse the reasons for the rate of deconcentration of dentists and orthodontists. A request that we had made and that was taken up - thank you to the committee colleagues - was to force dentists and orthodontists to give patients a quote so that they knew what to expect. I would have liked to turn to the Minister of Health, but obviously he is not interested in the subject. She is represented by four colleagues. You'll tell him what you're talking about. So we found a compromise in committee. Our concession in the text - Mr Thiéry, you realize - is the added sentence: "Within the limits of the existing budgetary possibilities." This may seem obvious, but it must not, in any case, be an argument to send us around tomorrow. We are a little suspicious, you see, colleagues in the government. We heard the minister say, "Never will my health care budget be affected." We have seen the measures: 900 million euros! This is a third of the budget effort, Mr Laaouej, on the backs of patients and patients! I know this is in dispute, but I remind you of all the measures that affect health care, especially medicines. We will not have to tell us tomorrow that you would have liked to follow our recommendation but that you did not have the means to do so. We will therefore be extremely attentive, ladies and gentlemen, to what will be set up by the government in the coming weeks, when we have voted unanimously on this resolution - and I thank you again for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-16-54-plenair-ip161x.u74	Mr President, Ministers, Mr Frédéric, ladies and gentlemen, let me begin by thanking absolutely all the colleagues in the Public Health Committee who have worked closely or far on this motion for a resolution. I would specifically like to thank Mr Frédéric for the text that was presented by the PS and from which we also drew inspiration. You will have found that a number of amendments that had been proposed by the PS and other parties have been studied. This has enabled us to reach a consensus on taking charge of the orthodontics that we felt were necessary. I'm not going to call the numbers back. To avoid repetitions, I refer to the state of affairs prepared by Mr. Frédéric. I would just like to confirm that, so far, care has only been provided for children up to the age of 15. In exceptional cases, this care is provided for young adults up to twenty-two years of age. We know that some dental problems among young people may require a number of care or interventions well beyond 18 years or even 22 years of age. We also know that orthodontic treatments are subject to specific reimbursement by insurance companies, but on this point too, not everyone is on the same footing, including patients who do not have access to these insurances. Consideration should also be given to the management of patients with a more severe disease, such as the palatine slit, and other patients with medical conditions that may have problems after the age of 15. That is therefore one of the reasons why we wanted to achieve this resolution, taking into account, of course, also the problem of prices. I think Mr. Frédéric called him back. A patient should be able to report to his orthodontist by asking him or her in advance for an estimate of the costs in relation to the procedure to be performed. I think we're quite on the same wavelength about that. It is true that a resolution is a commitment, but it does not have the force of law. Some may say that we may not go far enough in this resolution, but once again, if we were to wait for the perfection of a resolution or a bill, by definition, we know very well that they would never succeed. I have never seen a perfect resolution or bill. It is also clear that a number of speakers will have to take a position. I am thinking, among other things, of the Dentomut players who will have to take a position in the context of the budgetary problem. That is why we believe that, among other things, with regard to nomenclature, it was not up to us, in the context of this resolution, to take a position. There will still be a need for consultation. We hope that it will of course always be for the benefit of patients. It is also important to take account of the fact that children over 15 years of age, as well as adults who are in need of medical or dental treatment, are monitored. Orthodontic treatments for children with palatine slits also deserve special attention. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, these are the points I wanted to put forward, convinced that concrete initiatives must take place in this area. I would like to conclude by pointing out that there has been an amendment proposed by the PS within the framework – Mr Frédéric recalled – of the paying third party. We discussed it in committee. It is true that we have not reached an agreement. We assumed that the problem of the paying third party was much more global than the specific case, here, of orthodontics. That is why we have not followed this amendment. On the other hand, I would like to point out that many other amendments have been taken into account and have allowed, in committee, a unanimous vote on this motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-16-54-plenair-ip161x.u75	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The meeting's over. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-16-54-plenair-ip161x.u76	Request/Demande 5(n) • 29 – André Frédéric cs (413/9) ******
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-16-54-plenair-ip161x.u77	The vote on the amendments that have been tabled and on the whole of the proposal will take place later. The vote on the reserved amendments and on the whole proposal will take place at a later stage.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-16-54-plenair-ip161x.u78	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-16-54-plenair-ip161x.u79	Mr President, since this is an essentially technical project, I refer to my written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-16-54-plenair-ip161x.u80	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-16-54-plenair-ip161x.u81	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2295/3) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2295/3) The draft law has 24 articles. The bill has 24 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-16-54-plenair-ip161x.u82	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-16-54-plenair-ip161x.u83	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Mr Van Hecke, rapporteur, referred to his written report. A number of speakers have been registered, but I do not see much, except for Mr Van Hecke.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-16-54-plenair-ip161x.u84	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we welcomed the Minister of Defence to the Committee on Justice. We were pleased to hear that. I shall be very brief, because I think that we have had a good discussion in committee and have done an excellent job. We have held hearings with people who have something to say about this, we have done a first reading and, as is customary in the Committee on Justice for important texts, we have also made a second reading where useful corrections have been made. This resulted in an excellent report, so that everyone knows which points of discussion were all there. A number of technical changes have been made following the evaluation by various services. In addition, there are a number of changes that are more than purely technical in nature. The exceptional methods are no longer excluded from the phenomena extremism and interference, specific exceptional methods can be applied from and from the Empire, the ADIV can use specific methods abroad and the urgency procedure for the specific method is adjusted, which is always delicate when it comes to exceptional or emergency procedures. There was also the debate of the BIM Committee, the setting up of an intervention team, notification obligations, a very important discussion that we had because the Constitutional Court also destroyed on the basis of an earlier provision in the original law, etc. So there's a whole series of changes. There was also the law on archiving, which did not belong there at all. You know that, Minister. We have had this discussion and Mr Hellings will discuss it in greater depth. One can, of course, study and analyse every measure or change contained therein in detail. You know that we are quite critical of the law on special intelligence methods, but I can also say that it is necessary. We will not say that it is not necessary or should not be used. I think that the debate is very important because we are providing a legal framework for the intelligence services, the military intelligence service and the security of the state to work. We can discuss any method, but what is particularly important to me is that when discussing and applying it, we always take into account a number of very important principles, such as opportunity, subsidiarity, the proportionality of resources, which means are used to achieve what objective, that maximum account is always taken of a number of fundamental rights that we have and of privacy. Such considerations are always difficult, but there will always have to be a proper relationship between these principles. That is why I am not saying that I agree with or disagree with this method. After all, in certain circumstances a method may be good, but in other circumstances I may think that it cannot or should not be used because it is not proportionate in a particular situation. The essence of the discussion is actually to assess whether there is sufficient control and will be after amendment of the BIM law. That's the essence. If we know today that, with the extension of this law, there will also be an extension of the control possibilities or that the services, the BIM Committee or the Committee I, will be able to control all the new methods that will be used on the ground, that will be reassuring. If we come to the conclusion today that they are unable to do so, then that is a problem. It is therefore a good thing that the Committee I has delivered an opinion. You're aware of that advice. It covers five pages and has not reassured me. The conclusion of the opinion of the Committee I, at the very end of the last paragraph, is as follows: "In summary, it can be said that supervision as it currently exists and is exercised by the Standing Committee I, must also be able to process this change of law, but that in the medium and longer term, the way in which the new powers are implemented by the services, the additional tasks of the Committee I and the increasing complexity of the dossiers will test the capacities of the Standing Committee I. That is, of course, essential. From the government, of course, you will say that this is Parliament's competence. The Committee I depends on Parliament, it is Parliament that determines the budgets, so if there is a need for an increase in technical resources or staff, that is our responsibility. Mr President, you will find a partner in us to ensure that the monitoring body will indeed have the resources it needs to carry out those checks.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-16-54-plenair-ip161x.u85	We started that discussion this week.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-16-54-plenair-ip161x.u86	That's essential. Of course, we will also have to ask for money, we will have to have some cooperation from the government. If control can be guaranteed, both technically and by means, then it will be a law that strikes a balance. I think that with the introduction of the BIM Act and the BIM Commission, you have also seen that, after a while, there is a kind of court hearing, which means that the security of the State and the military intelligence services know very well what they can and cannot do. The BIM Committee has developed legal proceedings and we know what to do. That is a good thing, those are the checks and balances that are included in this law. Of course, there are also some crucial new elements in the law, such as the cable tap. You know, Minister of Defence, that we must be vigilant in this matter abroad. There's the risk of mass capture. You say that the law provides for conditions. For example, one has to work with a list and one cannot simply do mass capturing. Here again it is important that the competent authorities can carry out the checks to see whether or not a wiretapping plan is being followed, whether or not the legal conditions are being complied with. In short, cable tap, we are not a big fan of that, but if all this can be specifically monitored on the ground and carried out by persons with the necessary qualifications and technical means, then it can be a good tool for finding a balance. The condition is, of course, that there is sufficient technical skilled staff available. The creation of the intervention team is also something completely new, for which we must be attentive. The monitoring of the operation of this service will also be carried out by the Committee I, which will have to apply legislation which is actually applicable to police forces, according to the law on police officers. In fact, this is a speciality of the P Committee. Anyway, the Committee I will have to do it. There is also the discussion on notification, following the notification of the Constitutional Court on the former provision. The Constitutional Court has actually said that an active notification must be made. The government has opted for passive notification. The question then, of course, Ministers, is whether the Constitutional Court will accept this when it has to re-state itself in this case. So far, a number of elements. I will not repeat everything I said in committee. Everyone can read that perfectly in the report. Of course we are not happy with the chapter on archives either, but as I said earlier, my colleague will intervene specifically on this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-16-54-plenair-ip161x.u87	Mr President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, the text on which today's debate will focus is of paramount importance, since it substantially amends the substantive law of the intelligence and security services, with new tasks and powers granted to the State Security and the General Intelligence and Security Service of the Ministry of Defence (SGRS). The hearings carried out in the Committee on Justice and the evaluations carried out revealed that some adaptations and improvements had to be made. It's done. The results of this legislation are positive. It should be noted that arrangements have been made for State Security officers to carry out their work in safer conditions. However, as I have had the opportunity to remind you in committee, it would have been better to wait for the recommendations of the committee of inquiry, since the government has no reason for urgency to anticipate these issues. For example, the separation between judicial and intelligence authorities remains unclear. In this regard, the results of the work carried out by the commission of inquiry would have helped to remove certain uncertainties. We have somewhat anticipated a job that may have to be done again in a few months. That is the most regrettable aspect. Hearings and discussions also revealed that certain provisions of the bill went far too far. This bill tends to adapt the law to technological developments, which I think is positive. Nevertheless, these improvements must go hand in hand with guarantees of law in a democratic society, i.e. with proportionate, balanced procedures that meet a legitimate objective. Our intelligence services must, of course, have the tools to carry out their missions. We plead in this direction. On the one hand, the attacks on our country have sufficiently demonstrated that the whole security cannot be the absolute answer. It is important that our Information also play a preventive role. On the other hand, a security policy without the human and budgetary means for the SGRS and for State Security is futile. Can the additional missions with which the Information will be invested be completed with such limited means? We're worried about it. The R Committee was also very concerned about this. We can take a simple example: Defence's strategic vision provides resources for the Intelligence dimension, which would in a way become a fully-fledged component of our defence. While this development is essential, we question the fact that many resources seem to be devoted solely to the ISTAR battalion. Mr Vandeput, you discussed yesterday with my colleague Pirlot in the National Defence Committee. In this context, I would like to be clear on this point, we do not question field intelligence, "in boots" as we say in jargon. It is essential for the security of our operations and our military abroad. On the other hand, my group is concerned about the fact that no more comprehensive reflection on the Belgian intelligence community is taking place. ISTAR would be better integrated and controlled in the Belgian intelligence community, as is the case at the level of Security and SSRS. Our assembly seems to be very helpless when it comes to controlling ISTAR's work. It is in this sense that we have questioned General Testelmans and yourself, Mr Vandeput, on several occasions, without receiving any real answer. Of course, that is regrettable. In this regard, the bill provides for new methods and capabilities, including territorial ones, for the SGRS. Regrettably, the military programming law only confirms our concerns about this; this bill misses the mark by refraining from integrating the strategic vision. On the contrary, I fear that it will accentuate the grey area of the functions and tasks of each individual, whether civilian or military, within the Belgian intelligence services. The explanatory memorandum will read that the draft does not affect the guarantees provided for the protection of the fundamental rights of citizens or the various controls. Let me point out to you, Ministers, that by changing the rules of observation and technical means by shifting exceptional methods to specific methods and by providing for the application of less protective methods abroad, you obviously affect fundamental rights, as well as the guarantees intended to protect them. These democratic guarantees can be preserved if a balance is struck between, on the one hand, the operational skills needs of our intelligence services and, on the other hand, the preservation of the fundamental rights and freedoms of our citizens. In this case, this objective is still not being met. In concrete terms, agents will be able to use the technical means, such as the film, at any time without the control of the BIM Commission. The authorization of the service manager will now be sufficient. The new criteria used to be able to film are also based on unverifiable and uncontrollable evidence. And so the new concept of "place not accessible to the public not excluded from the sight", instead of "private place" has the effect of making accessible to observation certain parts of the domicile without the authorisation of the BIM Commission. And so the protection of home and privacy is considerably diminished. It is normal for home aisles to be protected by necessary safeguards, as long as they are an integral part of the home. Moreover, with this concept, the protection of privacy will depend on real circumstances, which do not apply to every citizen, since some homes will be better protected than others according to a simple location configuration, which will be different from one home to another. The added value of these methods is also questionable by the simple fact that their application will raise more problems than it will solve. Extreme emergency procedures are simplified to allow officers to take action even more quickly. And, if we understand that services must be able to act quickly, it is necessary at least to define a time limit within which confirmation will have to take place. At the moment, we have enough technology to demand just as fast a written record, such as a text message or an e-mail, for example. Despite these few pitfalls, I would like to point out the quality of the legislative work that has been provided in committee, which has now made it possible to make reference to authorisations subject to the penalty of nullity. This is the positive point and the improvement that has been made in committee. This is an additional guarantee that is essential and is now in place in this project. The project also creates new methods by which the SGRS can act abroad. It will now be possible to intercept communications, take images and enter a computer system abroad. The SGRS has always had functions carried out abroad. It is therefore not shocking that these missions are confirmed in this respect. On the other hand, these new methods are not surrounded by the necessary formal and procedural guarantees since there is no assessment of the principles of proportionality and necessity. The government justifies this flexibility by pointing out that communication with Belgium is not always possible and that it is more complicated from abroad. Like the Council of State, I believe that this argument is unfounded; these data collections can be carried out from Belgium. With regard to the notification system, the Government unfortunately did not take into account the remarks made by both the Council of State and the Constitutional Court. They recalled the need to establish a system that would allow persons under surveillance to be informed of this. However, the draft provides for a system of notification which is passive, which operates only at the request of the person, and under conditions that are far too restrictive. Unfortunately, the alternative solutions proposed by the BIM Commission have not been taken into account even though they allow the rights of the persons concerned to be reconciled with the needs of the investigation. How can we require as a condition of admissibility that the person should provide evidence of his or her personal and legitimate interest when, by its very nature, the methods are applied in the utmost secrecy? This condition is obviously irreconcilable with the secret nature of the methods. Finally, the reform of the archives of the intelligence services, which allowed the services to build their own archives until they were destroyed, was a serious issue. Under pressure from archivists, the now amended draft provides that intelligence services are exempt from transferring documents under the age of 50 to the State Archives, whereas the current deadline is 30 years. However, the extension of the deadline is not justified for historical reasons as well as for scientific reasons. The Ministers of Defence and Justice gave no objective reason for extending the 30-year period to 50 years. Moreover, the decentralization of archives into several departments will not facilitate the work of our researchers either. While some aspects of the text allow the SGRS and the Sûreté de l'Etat to better carry out their essential tasks, given the current difficult context of the terrorist threat and geopolitical realities, we believe, nevertheless, that this text sometimes goes far too far in terms of violating the privacy of our citizens. Moreover, it is not part of a global reflection on the Belgian intelligence community, which must be equipped with the human and budgetary means necessary to carry out an ad hoc democratic control. The constellation of intelligence is therefore not, in our view, an option because it will not be able to achieve the objectives set. These are the reasons why my group will abstain from voting on this bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-16-54-plenair-ip161x.u88	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, for the discussion of the current BIM legislation, I would like to return to the attacks. At that time, each party stood at the front or on the banks, wherever it was, in order to call for the intelligence services to be given more power, to be able to act better and to protect our people and our people better. That is obvious, and that is what is happening today with this bill. We said that we would change it. The government does, too. We are now trying to broaden the powers so that the intelligence services can do their job better. They did their best, but unfortunately that has not yet been the case. Think of the technological developments to which the legislation, as it had previously been, had not been adapted. Now it's happening. Moreover, we all know that our researchers, at Justice and the intelligence services, have to abide by a lot of rules and procedures. Terrorists shouldn't do that. They'll do it. So the investigator always leaves with a certain delay. The aim of this legislation, within the framework of the necessary safeguards and checks and balances, is to make up for this delay for a great deal and to be able to work well. For example, they will now be allowed to eavesdrop on certain targets beyond our national borders. I wasn't allowed to do that until today. There are exceptional investigative methods that can now also apply to threats, including extremism, which allow banking operations to be checked in this context. You couldn't have done that before. There is now also an urgent procedure to be able to act very quickly. Imagine a very acute situation, in which one has to wait four days for permission for a phone tap. Now it's gonna be much faster to act. For me, too, it is very important that this draft empowers the ADIV to anticipate, advise and ensure that everything can happen in safe conditions if our troops are not already there. I am also thinking of third-party assistance. Even small things, like a locksmith calling, couldn't be. Today, thanks to this design. Our intelligence agencies are getting more leverage. This is very important in order to avoid future attacks and protect our people. I found an amendment by Ecolo-Groen on the archive in the banks. I have also read and heard a lot about the archive, but I am more concerned about protecting people than about an archive. It is good that comments are being made, but they are not all correct. It's not being excluded from the public at all. Visitors' figures are concerned. One should not claim that this is not the case. An automatic declassification is also proposed. In this context, the VSSE and the ADIV will constantly have to declassify their small services. I would much rather have these services deal with the protection of our people. That's what I'm counting on.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-16-54-plenair-ip161x.u89	Mr President, to bounce back on the last speech, how, Madam, does the amendment to the Archives Act increase the capacity to fight terrorism? Absolutely nothing! This is proof that the amendment of this Article 51 is something that has come far beyond the issues of combating terrorism or changing the way in which our intelligence services operate in the fight against terrorism. The fact that today the intelligence services, be it the State Security or the army intelligence service, can keep an archive for at least fifty years before having to pay them to the Kingdom General Archives does not change anything in their ability to improve the fight against terrorism. Absolutely nothing! My speech will be very brief, Mr President. I would just like to make it clear that, as far as archives are concerned, the most unacceptable and aberrant aspects of the original Article 51, before it was amended by a majority amendment, have now disappeared. It is recalled that, at the beginning of our discussions on Article 51, we were talking about the establishment of a historical archives service for the State Security and the Army Intelligence Service, which is totally contrary to the principles of good governance that want to bring the archives together in one place. Moreover, there was also the idea that the intelligence services could have asked other federal government agencies, to which the State Security and the military intelligence services had transferred data, archives, destruction of documents. In particular, the police are being thought of. It was suggested that the intelligence services could ask other agencies to destroy these documents, which is totally in contradiction with a golden rule in the archives, namely respect for the integrity of the fund. From the moment a document is transferred to a local police or to the federal police, even though the document originally originates from the intelligence services, it is owned by the local police, the federal police. And, if security measures were to be taken to ensure that the document was not found in nature, it was unacceptable for the State Security or the military intelligence service to have that legal capacity to ask the police to destroy the document. That was unacceptable. It's gone. In the parliamentary debate, both the Minister of Defence and the Minister of Justice have been heard to open or open the door to the idea of creating, in the future, an automatic declassification of documents currently classified after a certain period of time, which is a definite opening in relation to the manner in which section 51 was drafted at the beginning of parliamentary proceedings. There remains a real problem, which arose when the new majority amendment to Rule 51 was tabled. Today, the two intelligence services are given a period of fifty years before their archives are automatically transferred to the General Archives of the Kingdom. I have a question for the minister about that. Does this 50-year period run from the date of the document or from the time when the document was last used, i.e. from the time the document is no longer administratively useful. Let's take an example, the Sûreté has data on the Brabant Killers. The investigation is still under way. Will data on this investigation be declassified 50 years after the occurrence of the Brabant Killings where when the State Security will no longer need this document? This issue of delay is important because we have a lot of records in our intelligence services that relate to painful times in our history. However, researchers must now, but especially in the future, have access to primary resources to understand what has happened. For example, it is essential that our researchers have access to documents to understand the events that led to the independence of the Congo. It is undeniable that Congo's independence occurred in 1961, that Belgium's presence in the Congo ended in 1962. So we have far exceeded the 50-year deadline. Please be aware that recent news has shown us that our intelligence services are particularly weak in making these essential documents available to researchers for research and history. For example, the State Security Service has repatriated documents from the SPF's Colonial Security Department to the Security Service, although these documents should have been transferred to the General Archives of the Kingdom. Another example is the desire of the Army's intelligence service to move to the SPF Foreign Affairs, where they are now stored, the archives of the Congolese Public Force, namely the embryo of Congolese army and police. These archives are not de facto made more readily available to researchers since they are not transferred directly to the General Archives of the Kingdom. This shows that the archives that are linked to our intelligence services are now receiving special attention from our intelligence services. They act openly or by the band to prevent them from being paid where they are to be paid after the time limit, namely fifty years: within the General Archives of the Kingdom and made accessible by virtue of the Act of 11 December 1998 on classified documents. It is essential that these archives be found there in the General Archives of the Kingdom, accessible by the general public and, in particular, by the researchers who will have to establish our history. That is why we have the greatest fears, but I look forward to the answers that both ministers will be willing to give to the questions I have just asked them.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-16-54-plenair-ip161x.u90	I was asked a question. I'll answer it right away. They want to have their own archive where everything is in it, instead of having to transfer the documents to the National Archives. This does not mean that the archive will become less accessible and that researchers will not be able to handle it anymore. They can do it. It's accessible. A lot of people come there every year. One does not have to pretend that it would not be and that a move to the National Archives would be better. Moreover, given the location of the National Archives, I believe that security there is less efficient than in its own service. Finally, you ask what the reform on archiving contributes to the security of the population. Well, there is a lot of information coming in from many services, including from other countries. If adequate security cannot be guaranteed, our security services will no longer be provided with this information. If they no longer receive this information, they will no longer be able to protect us adequately. That's why it's so important.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-16-54-plenair-ip161x.u91	Madam, I live right in front of the General Archives of the Kingdom. It's a neighborhood that works especially well. I myself have been able to visit the archives and security is particularly well ensured there. Ma'am, we're talking about archives that are over 40 years old. How does this affect national security? In what? On the other hand, I note that the history of the murder or controversial death of Dag Hammarskjöld, the former Secretary-General of the United Nations, has never been established. Why? Because these data are kept secret by the Belgian, British, American and South African intelligence services. That's the reason! These are archives of deceased persons, members of the State Security or military intelligence services that are no longer in this world, ma'am. We have the right, in a democratic state, when something happened, to know. When the United Nations came to investigate the death of Dag Hammarskjöld, it was unable to access the archives of the State Security and Army Intelligence Service, and our Government did not put United Nations researchers on the right track to find those documents. I think it is urgent for Belgium to be able to cope with its history, otherwise it will not be able to do so.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-16-54-plenair-ip161x.u92	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I think the project makes sense to the extent that we know that organized crime always has technology ahead of our intelligence and security services. In this respect, adapting our legal texts has its full relevance. We would have been happy to follow the government's text despite a few questions about proportionality, not always adequately met between the legitimate interests of privacy and the need for effective protection of public safety. But what will ultimately cause my group to abstain from this text is because it has been associated with the provisions on archives in a somewhat unfortunate way. We have just mentioned that a very unfortunate distinction is introduced between the classical archives, which are deposited in the General Archives of the Kingdom according to well-codified and accepted procedures of all and the archives relating to security operations in the broad sense. We're increasing the lead time. We are developing different procedures and, as I have had the opportunity to say in committee, that is a shame. Indeed, a democracy honors itself to allow generations that have not participated directly in decisions or non-decisions, to learn, appreciate or grasp situations that have been experienced by our country and to be able to search for such information and information in the archives. To impose, as you wish for these documents, a period of fifty years, to take the risk of their eventual declassification or even disappearance, is not acceptable in a State that wants to honour itself with the ability to explain why, at times of troubled times in our history, certain decisions have been made. If you had had the wisdom, as you had been suggested, to remove this element from the text, we could have followed you. In view of the fact that you wanted to maintain it, even by amending it, we will abstain from the text.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-16-54-plenair-ip161x.u93	Mr President, we will not, of course, support this draft law. Many of the measures of this scheme that are being applied today do not aim at efficient processing of the available data in a targeted and democratic way in the fight against terrorism. We have had that debate many times. One of the provisions in the present draft law extends the powers of the security services: the simplified violation of the privacy of Belgian citizens. The increase in their powers would require the BIM Commission and the Committee I to monitor more activities, but they do not have the means to do so. We have often pointed this out. The effective control of the security services is therefore at risk. In our view, this is not good news for the protection of citizens, but it may also make it easier to notice the malfunctioning of intelligence services or the poor communication between different services. This, too, involves the risk that our services will become less efficient and that there will be problems in the targeted detection of real threats. The PVDA submitted a bill on 2 February last year to strengthen democratic control. Here we see that the opposite is happening. For our group, this policy is very problematic. The PVDA has repeatedly stressed that the measures are inefficient, all the more so because the government continues to refuse to address the structural causes of terrorism, such as the conduct of wars abroad, often for purely economic reasons, or the sponsorship of terrorism by countries such as Saudi Arabia. Despite the fact that the majority parties continue to emphasise it, the principle of proportionality is not maintained in the draft law. One of the measures of the draft allows for the recording of eavesdropping communications not for one but for ten years, without providing a motivation for this measure. Also requiring third parties and transport companies to cooperate violates different democratic principles and can even allow the use of civilian infiltrators. Like the proposal on the professional secrecy of social workers recently adopted, the present draft makes it easier to abolish the professional secrecy of doctors, lawyers and the source secret of journalists. Ladies and gentlemen, our group believes that we must strike a balance between the privacy of people and the fight against terrorism. That is not being maintained today. That is why we will vote against the draft law.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-16-54-plenair-ip161x.u94	Mr President, Mr Van Hecke, we discussed the obligation to notify after the destruction of the previous one in detail in committee. We have shown that the obligation of notification, as designed in the European context, can be seen. You are also concerned that the Committee I is responsible for monitoring the Intervention Team. As I explained to you in committee, a number of police officers are posted to the Committee I Survey Service. As far as Mrs Özen's questions are concerned, I refer to the answer I gave to Mr Özen. Van Hecke on the duty of notification. As regards the criterion of "place not accessible to the public" and the question of whether or not this place is visible, I think we have sufficiently answered it in committee. We made it clear that this remains a specific method which makes it necessary to notify the BIM committee in advance. We believe that it is sufficiently monitored in terms of guardianship. These are the few answers I wanted to give, Mr. President. I shall now turn the floor to my Defence colleague, Mr Vandeput.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-16-54-plenair-ip161x.u95	I'll give him the floor, if you don't mind. That's why I'm here!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-16-54-plenair-ip161x.u96	I apologize infinitely, I won't do it anymore. But we're a team, Mr. President!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-16-54-plenair-ip161x.u97	Congratulations, Minister! I'm glad!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-16-54-plenair-ip161x.u98	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Van Hecke mentioned it during the discussion of the draft law before us, and it meets the questions we have asked. Mrs Özen, you are referring to my strategic vision. Indeed, we have found that we are lagging behind with regard to our intelligence services. That is why two things are needed. Firstly, this is a significant investment both in resources and in people, and secondly, a clear legal framework within which these services can carry out their tasks. In this sense, it is very important that the legislative text not only regulates a number of issues very clearly and gives some possibilities in view of evolving technology, but above all that we are very clear about the checks and balances, the means of control associated with them. Mr Van Hecke, I have taken very good note of your concerns about this control, including the impact of the Committee I. We discussed this in detail in committee. For example, I have pointed out that cable tap must always be linked to a specific listening plan handed over ex ante to the Committee I and whose ex post execution is monitored. So all these matters are now clearly regulated, which at last provides legal certainty for the employees of the security services, especially for their activities abroad. Mr Hedebouw, if you had read the texts better, you would have determined what I said correctly: the controls have become clearer and more uniform and there is more guarantee of proper control. Of course, a number of things are difficult to comprehend in laws. There is such a thing as common sense, including in the services. When we talk about proportionality, it is up to those involved and their superiors to make choices, choices that are clearly justified by the law. To make a long story short, I note that there are really few comments on the substance, except for the concerns about the control, which is why we have also said that we will review this law on a permanent basis with regard to the methods themselves, and that the opposition is clinging to straws in connection with ISTAR, Mrs Özen, or the archives of which Mr Hellings is a major pioneer. Mrs Özen, one of my predecessors belonging to your party could perhaps explain to you what the ISTAR battalion is. Indeed, you mentioned components. The above battalion is a full member of the Earth component. It is not linked in any way to the SRMS, either at the component level, at the budget level, or at the command level. If there is a problem, I would like you to discuss it with your socialist colleges. Yesterday, in committee, I promised that I would organize a visit of the ISTAR battalion specifically for the members of the PS group because I think they do not have a good idea of the capabilities and tasks of the aforementioned battalion. So I hope you'll join us when we go to visit him. It's not that far since he's in Heverlee.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-16-54-plenair-ip161x.u99	Mr President, Minister, it is true that after almost a year, you finally invited me yesterday to visit this battalion. With you, pleasure comes from waiting. It is true that you were very upset because we had discussed your program law on future military investments. I can understand that my request for second reading did not agree with you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-16-54-plenair-ip161x.u100	Mr. Hellings, you're asking a question about the archives. I know you like to discuss archives that are thirty years old or older. I'd rather look to the future and do the right thing for our intelligence services. In response to your question, I would say that as far as deadlines are concerned, it is specifically mentioned in the text that it is at the time when a file is no longer of direct use that it is placed in the archives; that is when the date of archiving takes place. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that I have answered the questions that have been put sufficiently. I am convinced that this will enable me to do my service in the future as it is expected for the sake of all of us.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-16-54-plenair-ip161x.u101	Of course, I only gave a summary today. I didn't repeat everything. There were also some technical questions on issues that are unclear. So I would just like to correct that there would only be a discussion about a battalion and the supervision of the archives. You admit that, too. It is a concern that we all share. We will continue to follow up on this. I'd like to talk about the deadline. In committee, I gave an example of the file of the Gang of Nivelles. We need to be clear. You say that the deadline starts to run from the moment the file is closed with the intelligence service. The criminal limitation period has been reduced to 40 years. So it's gonna run for another 10 years. I suspect the State Security has a file on the Gang of Nivelles, or elements of it. I assume she won't close this for the criminal statute of limitations. Maybe there are elements in it that can be useful. However, 40 years plus 50 years is 90 years. This means that the archives of the State's Security will not be made public until 90 years after the facts. I think this is a little late. What did you do? In the past, the deadline for State Security was 30 years, but the amendment discussed by the majority brings everything to 50 years, because this was the norm in military intelligence. The consequence, of course, is, by the rule of the beginning of the term, that this is a very long term. That's a bit of a gnaw. I would like to point out that this is a problem for us.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-16-54-plenair-ip161x.u102	Mr Van Hecke, I understand your concern about the deadlines. At the same time, however, it gives the impression that these archives would not be accessible to research. In committee, however, I have read some letters of thanks from researchers as an example. In the archive of the ADIV we receive more than 600 people a year, who view or not classified archives. The classified archives can of course only be accessed with the necessary security clearance. In my view, therefore, your concern is somewhat over-dimensioned, in the sense that people who want to carry out serious research on those archives will have access to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-16-54-plenair-ip161x.u103	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? ) The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-16-54-plenair-ip161x.u104	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2043/9) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2043/9) The draft law has 83 articles. The bill has 83 articles.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-16-54-plenair-ip161x.u105	• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 11... Benoit Hellings cs (2043/10) • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 12... Benoit Hellings cs (2043/10) ****** The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments and on the Rule and on the whole will take place later. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments and the reserved article as well as on the whole will take place at a later date. ****** Decision of the article-by-article discussion:
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-16-54-plenair-ip161x.u106	Sustained: the vote on the amendments and Rule 51.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-16-54-plenair-ip161x.u107	Article adopted by article: Articles 1 to 50, 52 to 83.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-16-54-plenair-ip161x.u108	******
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-16-54-plenair-ip161x.u109	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Peter Vanvelthoven, Stéphane Crusnière, Roel Deseyn, Benoît Dispa, Georges Gilkinet, Vincent Scourneau, Luk Van Biesen and Robert Van de Velde.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-16-54-plenair-ip161x.u110	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Mr President, I should like to speak on behalf of Van Hees.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-16-54-plenair-ip161x.u111	Mr President, I would like to stress the importance of this committee of inquiry. The special commission is transformed into a commission of inquiry following false statements by the banks. It can be said that some banks made a double false statement: false statement before the special commission, saying that everything was clean today; false statements for some of their customers. Hence the need for a commission of inquiry. I would like to express both my surprise and my satisfaction at the composition of this committee of inquiry. Initially, the proposal was formulated in such a way that only Members of the recognised groups would be appointed as members of the committee. You understand, of course, my astonishment, after serving actively for months in the Panama Papers Special Committee, to be excluded from it when it becomes a commission of inquiry. Imagine my astonishment, ladies and gentlemen, in the Committee on Finance, when I discussed the establishment of the committee of inquiry, when I saw that an amendment had been introduced by the opposition, but also signed by the majority, to allow me and the other members of the unrecognized groups to sit on this committee of inquiry. I do not know the background of this miracle, nor what led to this change of position, but in any case I understood that our colleague Mr Laaouej had probably played a role in this development. If that is the case, I thank him. I am satisfied, I repeat, but I therefore ask myself questions about the other parliamentary committees: the Attentats Committee, the Optima Committee, the Criminal Transaction Committee. There, the majority ejected us with rather weak and futile arguments, when there were. I even remember that for the Optima Committee, which had been discussed in the Finance Committee, there was no argument whatsoever. Finally, I note that by signing this amendment, which allows the unrecognized groups to sit on the Panama Papers Committee of Inquiry, the majority itself deconstructed all its meagre arguments which excluded us, and which always excludes us from the three previous committees of inquiry. I take it that, behind technical and regulatory reasons that were not on the road, there was simply a political motivation to exclude us. Here, I note that there is a breach and that now the small groups, the unrecognised groups, have a place in parliamentary committees of inquiry. I wanted to express my satisfaction with this development.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-16-54-plenair-ip161x.u112	So you're saying you're happy, Mr. Van Hees.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-16-54-plenair-ip161x.u113	Yes, that's it!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-16-54-plenair-ip161x.u114	I wasn't sure I understood.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-16-54-plenair-ip161x.u115	Mr President, as the first editor of the amendment, I would like to refer the previous speaker to the justification for this amendment. It was simply a matter, as we decided in the Panama Papers Committee, of having, for the very ad hoc but very important committee of inquiry to be held, the same composition as for the special committee, referring to what had been said by the President of the House when the Panama Papers Committee was set up. I have proposed that we use exactly the same terms which provide that the other political groups, those which are not recognised, can each appoint a member who will participate without the right to vote in the work of the committee of inquiry. This is very good, since the Ecolo Group has always defended the widest possible opening of these important places, namely the commissions of inquiry. Having said that, we are pleased that this latitude – which was provided for in the Rules of Procedure or the text establishing the Special Committee – has been implemented, if necessary, to transform it into a committee of inquiry. Indeed, a commission of inquiry is a more powerful tool than a special commission. You know we can't refuse to appear there. You have to take an oath before you speak, and when you are bound to a professional secret, whatever it is, you are bound to it, if you wish, in the face of a commission of inquiry. This is above all the important element. I invite those who sometimes prefer special commissions to commissions of inquiry to think about it. Sometimes it is better to set up the commission of inquiry directly in order to be even more effective than the special commission which has not worked badly so far. In this case, the very specific purpose of this committee of inquiry set up at the suggestion of our excellent colleague Vanvelthoven is to rehearse some representatives of the tax administration, including the ISI and the Advance Rulings Service, hoping that this time they will give us the answers they did not want to give us on behalf of professional secrecy, particularly as regards the intermediaries complicit in the tax fraud schemes revealed by the Panama Papers. What are the banks? Which counselling offices, if any, are generally cited in regularization files? This is indeed important information to complete the work that we have begun and to continue to try to obtain answers to the questions that we have asked the various interlocutors who have moved to the Special Committee. So if we vote in favour of this text just now – and I think that will be the case since it has been the subject of a great deal of unanimity – I think we can move towards greater efficiency in the fight against financial crime, which is in any case the objective of the Ecolo-Groen Group, which does not have a monopoly on it.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-16-54-plenair-ip161x.u116	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? ) The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-16-54-plenair-ip161x.u117	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2344/4) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2344/4) The proposal contains 7 articles. The proposal has 7 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-16-54-plenair-ip161x.u118	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-16-54-plenair-ip161x.u119	The Conference of Presidents of 15 March 2017 proposes to the Chamber of Representatives to extend the mandate of the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry on Friendly Settlement in Criminal Matters until 21 July 2017. The Conference of Presidents on 15 March 2017 proposes to the House of Representatives to extend the mandate of the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry "Criminal Transaction" until 21 July 2017. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-16-54-plenair-ip161x.u120	In accordance with the decision of the plenary session of 2 February 2017, two calls for candidates were published in the Belgian Official Journal of 9 February 2017, one for the President and the two members of the Disciplinary Board and another for the Registrars. In accordance with the decision of the plenary session of 2 February 2017, two appeals to the candidates were published in the Belgian Monitor of 9 February 2017, one for the President and the two members of the Disciplinary Council and one for the Registrars. No application was submitted within the prescribed time limit. No applications were submitted within the prescribed time limit. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 15 March 2017, I propose that two more calls be made to candidates in the Belgian Official Journal, one for the President and the two members of the Disciplinary Board and another for the Registrars. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 15 March 2017, I propose that you reissue two calls for candidates to the Belgian Monitor, one for the President and the two members of the Disciplinary Council and one for the Registrars. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-16-54-plenair-ip161x.u121	The next item is the appointment of the first or second deputy chairman of the Standing Committee on Police Supervision. The next item is the appointment of the first or second alternate chair of the Standing Committee on the Control of Police Services. Ms Regine Claeys' candidacy was announced at the plenary session of 23 February 2017. Ms. Regine Claeys' candidacy was announced during the plenary session on February 23, 2017. Since there is only one candidate and in accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 15 March 2017, I propose that Mrs Regine Claeys be appointed first deputy chairman of the P Committee, pursuant to Article 157.6 of the Rules of Procedure. Given that there is only one candidate and in accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of March 15, 2017, I propose that you appoint Ms.Regine Claeys as the first alternate chair of Committee P, pursuant to rule 157.6 of the Rules of the House. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-16-54-plenair-ip161x.u122	The last distributed agenda contains a list of proposals for which consideration has been requested. You have taken note of the list of proposals for consideration in the agenda distributed to you. If there is no objection, I shall consider it adopted; in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, these proposals shall be sent to the committees responsible. If there are no comments on this subject, I will take it into account as a matter of fact and refer the proposals back to the relevant committees in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 15 March 2017, I also propose that you consider: - the legislative proposal (Mr Vincent Van Peteghem and Mr Servais Verherstraeten and others) amending the Act of 19 December 2012 on the remuneration of servants and managers of public utility institutions, of autonomous public undertakings and of legal entities to which the State directly or indirectly exercises a dominant influence, as a natural person and of the Law of 6 August 1931 establishing the incompatibility and denials concerning ministers, former ministers and ministers of State, as well as members and former members of the Legislative Chambers as regards remuneration as a natural person, No. 2362/1. - the bill (Mrs Catherine Fonck) to make the composition and operation of the policy cells and cabinets of the members of the federal government transparent, No. 2366/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-16-54-plenair-ip161x.u123	- the legislative proposal (Mr Vincent Van Peteghem and Mr Servais Verherstraeten and others) amending the Law of 2 May 1995 on the obligation to submit a list of mandates, posts and appeals and an asset declaration as regards transparency on remuneration, No. 2363/1. - the proposal for a special law (Mr Vincent Van Peteghem and Mr Servais Verherstraeten and others) amending the Special Law of 2 May 1995 on the obligation to submit a list of mandates, posts and professions and an asset declaration as regards transparency on remuneration, No. 2364/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-16-54-plenair-ip161x.u124	- the motion for a resolution (Mr Gilles Vanden Burre and Mr Stefaan Van Hecke and others) on the partial opening to the public of the Laeken Domain, No. 2371/1. - the motion for a resolution (Mrs Anne Dedry and Mrs Muriel Gerkens) on obesity in children and young people (Doc. 2373/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-16-54-plenair-ip161x.u125	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 15 March 2017, I also propose that you take into account: - the bill (MM. Vincent Van Peteghem and Servais Verherstraeten et al.) amending the Law of 19 December 2012 on the remuneration of members of staff and representatives of public interest bodies, autonomous public undertakings and legal entities over which the State exercises direct or indirect dominant influence, as a natural person, and the Law of 6 August 1931 establishing incompatibilities and prohibitions concerning ministers and ministers of State, as well as members and former members of the Legislative Chambers with regard to remuneration as a natural person, No. 2362/1. - the bill (Ms. Catherine Fonck) introducing transparency in the composition and functioning of the strategic cells and cabinets of the members of the federal government, No. 2366/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-16-54-plenair-ip161x.u126	- the bill (MM. Vincent Van Peteghem and Servais Verherstraeten et al.) amending the Act of 2 May 1995 on the obligation to file a list of mandates, functions and professions, and a declaration of assets with regard to the transparency of remuneration, No. 2363/1. - the proposal for a special law (MM. Vincent Van Peteghem and Servais Verherstraeten et al.) amending the Special Act of 2 May 1995 on the obligation to file a list of mandates, functions and professions, and a statement of assets with regard to the transparency of remuneration, No. 2364/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-16-54-plenair-ip161x.u127	- the motion for a resolution (MM. Gilles Vanden Burre and Stefaan Van Hecke et al.) for the partial opening of the Laeken estate to the public, No. 2371/1. - the motion for a resolution (Ms Anne Dedry and Muriel Gerkens) on obesity in children and young people, No 2373/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-16-54-plenair-ip161x.u128	Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-16-54-plenair-ip161x.u129	Vote on Amendment No 28 by André Frédéric cs to insert recital I (n). (413/9) Vote on Amendment No 28 by André Frédéric cs to insert a recital I(n). (413/9) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes [[60]] Yes No. 72 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 132 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Mr. Ahmed Laaouej and Mr. Éric Massin voted in favour. (Mrs Sonja Becq voted against) (President Siegfried Bracke apologizes for all the votes)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-16-54-plenair-ip161x.u130	Vote on Amendment No 29 by André Frédéric cs to insert a request 5(n). (413/9) Vote on Amendment No 29 by André Frédéric cs to insert a request 5(n). (413/9) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 2) Yes [[46]] Yes No. 76 No Abstentions 15 Abstensions Total 137 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? [[No]] Mrs Jiroflée voted in favour.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-16-54-plenair-ip161x.u131	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 3) Yes 134 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 134 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the motion for a resolution. It will be notified to the government. (413/10) Accordingly, the House adopted the motion for a resolution. This will be made known to the government. (413/10) Mr. Hedebouw and Mr. Van Hees voted in favour. 100% of the PTB group therefore voted in favour.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-16-54-plenair-ip161x.u132	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes 134 Yes No. 4 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 138 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (2295/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (2295/4)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-16-54-plenair-ip161x.u133	Vote on Amendment No 11 by Benoit Hellings cs to omit Article 51. (2043/10) Vote on Amendment No 11 by Benoit Hellings cs to delete Rule 51. (2043/10) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 5) Yes 59 Yes No. 76 No Abstentions 3 Abstensions Total 138 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Vote on Amendment No 12 by Benoit Hellings cs on Article 51. (2043/10) Vote on Amendment No 12 by Benoit Hellings cs to Rule 51. (2043/10) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-16-54-plenair-ip161x.u134	Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 51 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Rule 51 was adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-16-54-plenair-ip161x.u135	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 6) Yes 93 Yes No. 13 No Abstentions 32 Abstensions Total 138 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (2043/11) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (2043/11) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-16-54-plenair-ip161x.u136	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 7) Yes 138 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 138 Total The Court therefore accepts the proposal. (2344/5) Accordingly, the House adopted the proposal. (2344/5)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-16-54-plenair-ip161x.u137	I propose that the parliamentary committee of inquiry be set up to finalise the mandate of the Special Committee on International Tax Fraud/Panama Papers. I propose that you proceed with the establishment of the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry to finalize the task of the Special Committee on International Tax Fraud/Panama Papers. The parliamentary committee of inquiry consists of 17 effective members appointed by the Chamber of Representatives among its members, according to the rule of proportional representation of the political groups. The Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry consists of 17 effective members appointed by the House of Representatives from among its members in accordance with the rule of proportional representation of political groups. An alternate shall be appointed by political group. He shall be appointed one alternate member per political group. The non-approved political groups may each appoint one member who, without the right to vote, participates in the work of the Committee of Inquiry. Non-recognised political groups may each appoint a member who will participate, without the right to vote, in the work of the committee of inquiry. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. I would remind you that, pursuant to Rule 158 of the Rules of Procedure, the distribution of this committee is as follows: I would point out that, in accordance with Rule 158 of the Rules of Procedure, the allocation of this committee is as follows: N-VA: 4 PS: 3 MR: 3 CD&V: 2 Open Vld: 2 sp.a: 1 Ecolo-Green: 1 cdH: 1. The chairmen of the political groups have sent me the applications of the members of their political groups who will be part of this committee. The presidents of the political groups have sent me the nominations of the members of their group who will make up this committee. N-VA: permanent members / effectifs: Peter Dedecker, Robert Van de Velde, Johan Klaps, Brecht Vermeulen alternate / alternate: Sophie De Wit; PS: permanent members / staff: Ahmed Laaouej, Stéphane Crusnière, Eric Massin alternate / alternate: Frédéric Daerden; MR: permanent members / staff: Vincent Scourneau, Benoît Piedboeuf, Benoît Friart alternate / alternate: Gautier Calomne; CD&V: permanent members / effectifs: Roel Deseyn, Griet Smaers alternate / alternate: Eric Van Rompuy; Open Vld: permanent members / effectifs: Luk Van Biesen, Katja Gabriels alternate / alternate: Ine Somers; sp.a: permanent member / effectif: Peter Vanvelthoven alternate / supplier: Dirk Van der Maelen; Ecolo-Green: fixed member / effectif: Georges Gilkinet alternate / alternate: Kristof Calvo; cdH: permanent member / effectif: Benoît Dispa alternate / supplyant: Christian Brotcorne. Members without voting rights: Jan Penris (VB). Members without the right to vote: Olivier Maingain (DEFI), Marco Van Hees (PTB-GO!), Aldo Carcaci (PP). Since the number of admissible candidates corresponds to the number of seats to be taken to the political groups which have nominated candidates, it is not necessary to vote in accordance with Rule 157 (6) of the Rules of Procedure. Since the number of eligible candidates corresponds to the number of places to be given to political groups that have nominated candidates, there is no vote in accordance with Rule 157.6 of the Rules of Procedure. I hereby declare elected candidates who have been nominated. Accordingly, I declare the candidates nominated elected. The committee will meet at the end of the plenary session. The Committee will meet at the end of the plenary session.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-16-54-plenair-ip161x.u138	We must proceed with the adoption of the agenda for Thursday 23 March 2017. We must proceed to the approval of the agenda of the sitting on Thursday, 23 March 2017. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] The agenda has been adopted. No observation? [[No]] The agenda was approved. The meeting is adjourned. Next sitting on Thursday, 23 March 2017 at 2.15 p.m. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Thursday 23 March 2017 at 2.15 p.m.
