ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-23-54-commissie-ic669x.u1	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for the invitation. I was invited as a member of the 21st century Commission for the Reform of Occupational Diseases. Our work is under way. Before I begin, I would like to point out that I will be speaking today instead as an expert to the Higher Council of Health and FEDRIS (Federal Occupational Risk Agency) on burn-out projects. I have also developed some for the Employment FPS on the prevalence and prevention of burn-out. In my presentation, I will highlight some issues related to burn-out in the world of work. First of all, I will re-explain the definition of the phenomenon that we have stopped within the Employment FPS and how this syndrome is linked to a combination of organizational and individual causes. I will then talk about the difficulty of diagnosing burn-out and, above all, I will mention the differential diagnosis in relation to other pathologies. I will also stress the distinction between primary, secondary and tertiary prevention. I will highlight some of the issues related to the first one and tell you about the project under way for FEDRIS in terms of secondary prevention. We've finalized a pick-up trip, which I'm offering you in a way the first time. However, this will remain confidential as the plan is yet to be finalized. I also wanted to highlight all the issues related to the care of workers or patients who are in arrears at work. If there is time left, I will explain that at the Senior Health Council, we have also considered the profile of the burn-out stakeholder, as well as the training and skills needed to intervene as a health professional on the aspects of burn-out. I'd like to give you a definition of burn-out. I think you've already had a first meeting on this subject, but between scientists, we agree enough to describe burn-out as a persistent and work-related negative state of mind. For us, burn-out is a work-related syndrome that develops in normal individuals who do not have psychopathological problems at the outset. They are healthy individuals who love their work, who are performing well and who initially feel very well in their work. Burn-out is characterized by physical and emotional exhaustion, a sense of inefficiency, demotivation and dysfunctional behaviour at work. The dysfunctional behaviour at work makes it possible to distinguish stress from burn-out. A person suffering from burn-out will change his attitude at work, will begin to develop dysfunctional and dysfunctional behaviors, will isolate himself, will have reactions that he did not previously have. Very often, it is a negative state of mind which is not noticed by the worker, but by a third person or by a colleague who points out to him that indeed it no longer functions as before and that it no longer reacts in work situations as before. Very often, this situation results in a difference between the intentions and the reality of work. People at risk at the burn-out level are often overinvested in their work. They have a very high work ideal, they are over-involved in their work and want a job well done and of quality. Very often, there is a difference between the intentions and the reality that the working environment allows us to achieve. Often, workers will maintain this state of mind through coping strategies that are ineffective. In the work clinic, we meet people who talk to us about inverted efficiency, who perform routine administrative work during the day and really get into their files in the evening. They use strategies that are no longer effective and that can be harmful to health. I coordinated a first study in 2010 for the Employment FPS on burn-out prevalence. It is very difficult today to interpret the figures concerning the prevalence of burn-out, because we use very different diagnostic methods. The study of self-reported questionnaires and clinical judgment diagnoses leads to very different prevalences from one study to another. However, this study allowed us to gather, through consultations with general practitioners and occupational doctors 1,089 cases of burn-out. Very often, the person consults his or her doctor on issues of stress, exhaustion, mal-being in his or her skin, physical fatigue. She also talks about work overload, work conflicts and, in some cases, depression. We see that the reason for consultation is quite broad and that the person himself does not very often highlight the word burn-out. In the table on the right, compared to our 1,089 burn-out cases, I have taken up the symptoms spontaneously mentioned in the consultations. Work was done based on scientific literature, focus groups with health professionals. A series of physiological, cognitive, emotional and behavioural symptoms have been listed. In terms of symptoms reported to the doctor, sleep disorders, decreased energy, and neurovegetative and functional complaints are common. We immediately see the need for an energy recovery for the person who is at an early stage or in a proven burn-out. You see that there are also, at some point, changes in attitude towards others, depressive moods, irritability, and then factors related to functioning (less effective, less self-confidence, feeling of losing memory, etc.).). These are often observed symptoms. More interesting in the end: what do people report in burn-out, in our 1 089 cases, in terms of constraints experienced at work and lack of resources? In terms of work-related constraints, the workload is often cited by people: workload, time pressure. Organizational changes, conflicts at work are also reflected in issues, as well as reconciliation between private and professional life. There are therefore themes of constraints cited by the workers who still fall under this overload of work, the guidelines, the temporal pressure. What I find quite interesting is the painting on the right. The Job Demand-Resources model, which separates constraints from resources, is used to explain well-being at work. In terms of the lack of resources mentioned, very often people (63% of cases) quote us a lack of support from the hierarchy and the direct supervisor, a lack of recognition. I take up a few themes closely or by far linked to what is called community management: support of hierarchy, recognition, participation in decisions, definition of tasks, feedback, autonomy. By far or near, we have the impression that community management has an important role to play. Unfortunately, today, community managers are often prevented in their work because they are in meetings or reporting, but we see that there is a node to this at the level of primary prevention that seems interesting to mention. I told you about organizational causes. I just talked about working conditions. We're also talking about individual causes. In fact, there are risk factors at the individual level. One of the risk factors for developing a burn-out is the paramount importance that is given to work in an individual's life. In other words, one touches the meaning given to the work, the values conveyed by the work. It is true that people who are overinvested at work tend to be more at risk at the level of burn-out. I have listed a few points that seem interesting to me: high expectations in relation to work, a very high work ideal, a "presentism" – one is physically present at work for a whole time despite a state of ill-being at work. One of the symptoms for early detection of burn-out is a duality between leaving and staying. "I'm really not good but I love my work and I want to achieve my results, I want to continue but at the same time I feel that I'm exhausting and so, I wonder if I'm doing well to stay at work and not to stop at any point." I keep thinking about work when I'm at risk at the burn-out level. Generally, too many things are sacrificed to work from the point of view of the loved ones. It's also an interesting element. There are certain characteristics. I'm not talking about personality characteristics. But there are still individual characteristics that will play in the phenomenon of burn-out. The second point relates to diagnostic issues. As I told you, we have two types of diagnostic tools at our disposal. I want to talk about the questionnaires. There is the Maslach questionnaire and the Ubos questionnaire that my colleagues also use. As far as we are concerned, we often use OLBI. This is a questionnaire that has been developed by Eva Demerouti which has two dimensions with items that are balanced in terms of their meaning, which is therefore not too transparent. These are questionnaires that are used on a large scale in companies, sometimes simultaneously with psychosocial risk diagnoses. Furthermore, the SPF Emploi has created a diagnosis by clinical judgement. It is a tool for early detection of burn-out, an interaction between the patient, the worker and his general practitioner or work. For your information, I have provided you with the link to this burn-out early detection tool. This is a double-sided sheet that the doctor fills out – and this is not a questionnaire – when he meets the patient. This allows him to have elements to make a first diagnosis. Diagnosis remains difficult to establish. In my view, it must be carried out by health professionals who have certain skills. I will come back to that later. Another important point, in my opinion, in terms of diagnosis, is the ability to establish a differential diagnosis. It is not obvious for the worker and sometimes for some professionals to distinguish burn-out from other work-related pathologies such as conflict, hyperconflict, harassment. There are other pathologies that are related to work-related suffering that must be distinguished from burn-out. And then, we must also be able to distinguish burn-out from other work-related pathologies such as depression, fibromyalgia, chronic fatigue, anxiety. So we have other tables that can coexist. You have to make the difference between the two. Last point in relation to the diagnostic questions and which is somewhat related to the issue of prevention, is that there are still a lot of authors who talk about the stages of burn-out. So, there are stadia species in the burn-out. I have a slide to explain it to you. I have taken up two or three authors here in relation to the issue of burn-out stages, but you can see that, overall, three stages are usually distinguished in burn-out. We have a first stage where we are in a matter of overinvestment, accumulation. There is a feeling of dissatisfaction with the person. In stage 2, we are already in disillusionment, in professional expectations that are not met, etc. And then we'll see that, in stage 3, the last stage underlined, we burned all his reserves. We're really with physical, psychological damage that's important. And, indeed, in stage three, we are very often at a work stoppage. It's important too. I'll be right back in my diagnosis question. For me, in Stages 1 and 2 – and I'm going to go back to the prevention issue because it's a bit complicated to explain everything quickly – we're in secondary prevention. It's more like we're keeping at work. So, the person is still at work but starts to malfunction, change attitude, etc. We sometimes also have short and frequent work stoppages, i.e. we'll be away for a week or two to recover, then we'll be back. We're in this duality that I've told you about, like, leaving-rester. In secondary prevention, there is still a possibility of having a time-limited program. One is still generally related to one's job, to one's workplace. Prevention actors have an important role to play. I am referring here to occupational doctors, preventive counsellors (psychosocial aspects). Our legislation mentions well-defined actors in relation to this issue. As I will explain later, for me, regardless of the burn-out stage, an organizational and individual approach is interesting. I'll explain it right after. When you're in the more advanced stages of burn-out, in stage 2 or 3, very often you're off work. The question of return to work, of reintegration, will rather be on the agenda. According to the clinicians at work, there is sometimes a need for a longer, more in-depth follow-up program. I will turn to point 3: primary, secondary and tertiary prevention of burn-out. Just as a reminder, in practice, there are three levels of action. I think maybe we talked to you about it the first time. There is a distinction between primary, secondary and tertiary levels. The primary level is really acting on working conditions, upstream. It's the idea of eliminating the causes of stress. It is trying to reduce the problems in terms of stressors. This is very much in line with the legislation on well-being at work, which requires risk analyses, prevention of working conditions at the collective level. As I have already told you, for this primary approach, community management is important. We have seen, in the causes of our burn-out cases, that direct supervision is something that seems important to favour well-being and to reduce the impact of demands on well-being. The second level is secondary level. Here, the idea is to train employees to identify stressful situations in their work, try to make them see the range of coping strategies they can develop, and try to develop effective defence strategies in these situations. Here, the idea is to identify the burn-out at the beginning of the process. As I was telling you, there are stages 1 and 2. It's important. It is therefore necessary to manage these events, to accompany the person to manage these first events. The tertiary level for me is rather the medical care of employees who are victims of pathologies. Rather, the idea is to reduce the consequences of burn-out and promote the return to work. This is where we find the reintegration route, etc., which my colleague will talk to you about, I think. That's for the three levels of action. I wanted to say something about primary prevention. For me, it remains essential. I am a labour psychologist and I think that if we can actually improve working conditions, that is the key to the long-term well-being of workers. In Belgium, there is good legislation in this area, which provides for structured preventive measures. I've reshaped the little scheme: we're talking about a demand analysis, we're making a diagnosis, an analysis of psychosocial risks, we're planning an action plan and we're implementing an action plan, and ideally we're evaluating the action plan. Unfortunately, the reality is a little different. A study I carried out and a study carried out on the Dutch-speaking side by my colleague Van Peteghem showed the difficulty of moving from diagnosis to intervention in companies. Overall, one in two companies do post-diagnosis intervention. So that's still an important question. Very rarely, companies evaluate their action plan: "Has it been effective?", "has we observed a better well-being of the collaborators?", etc. One question that can be asked is how to motivate employers more about primary prevention.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-23-54-commissie-ic669x.u2	In relation to this idea of community management, I think there is also an issue at the level of initial training. It would be interesting, in the courses of engineer (HEC), of future manager, to teach more, from the initial training, to this idea of management of proximity, of importance to be present for his team and to know the reality of the work, etc. This is for primary prevention. I think there are two essential lines of action here. The issue of initial training in relation to community management can be an interesting one. I've got to talk to you about taking care of it. I have just spoken to you about primary prevention, where we are going to work with businesses to improve working conditions under the welfare legislation at work. On the other hand, people show pain at work and an early burn-out. How to intervene? Overall, the few results of a scientific approach to the effectiveness of interventions always come from a combination of "reflective – work" and "individual help and psychological support" approaches, which lead to return to work and job retention. It is very important to focus on both the individual and the organizational. I think it is just as important, in the national context of ours, to organise the interaction between prevention actors (general practitioners, occupational doctors, medical consultants, preventive counsellors, psycho-social aspects). It is therefore important to reflect on the interactions between them. It is important to be able to reflect also on the level of prevention. I told you about the stages of burn-out (secondary and tertiary prevention). We have two projects in progress today at the secondary and tertiary levels. These two projects will enable us to distinguish between the two types of prevention and to see which audiences best apply these two intervention strategies. I think these are major issues. I am currently working with Lut Braeckman of the University of Ghent for FEDRIS. I'll give you a little preview. Much work has been done as scientific experts with FEDRIS but also with a working group. We did workshops with health professionals. It was presented to the Technical Committee on Prevention, but the steps of the Scientific Council are still to be taken. I think we've been thinking a lot about how to take care of a person who's in burn-out. There are small colors on the diagram and you see a central column in blue. For me, it's the role of a burn-out speaker. You need to be accompanied by a person specializing in burn-out issues. There are about ten sessions scheduled in relation to the diagnosis of burn-out. It is important, in order to diagnose burn-out, to have professionals who are competent. And in terms of care, it is important to have a person who will develop work clinic sessions, help the person to reflect on his or her work, to keep him or her at work or to prevent him or her from falling ill in relation to the issue of burn-out. You have, on the right, what is green, the focus on individual sessions, where some psycho-education sessions are planned in relation to energy recovery, in relation to stress management, in relation to life hygiene. The idea is really to accompany the person. Sessions are eventually planned in relation to a more individual approach at the cognitivo-emotional level, at the psycho-corporeal level. Sometimes there is a need for the individual to be resurrected, to be accompanied. On the other hand, in purple in the diagram to the left of our burn-out speaker, it is really this focus on the organization of work. For me, there are really some key steps with our interlocutors at the level of general medicine and occupational medicine to actually have a focus on working conditions, the organization of working conditions and a reflection on a gradual return to work. Start to leave or set up working time? It is also a reflection on the preparation of colleagues, in relation to the problem of burn-out, on the awareness of colleagues. There is therefore a whole series of elements that are more relevant to the organization and reflection on working with the person. I've got two more slides. With regard to the work clinic, which is often referred to in relation to the burn-out problem, I just wanted to tell you what was the content of these work clinic sessions with the burn-out worker. It is the idea of listening and talking about the reality of work, of giving room to subjectivity, of recognizing the suffering of the worker. It is to make the worker identify his personal resources, collective including organisational, medical and legal resources. This is to allow the worker to become again an actor in his situation. It's thinking about the meaning of work. It is to restore meaning to the work, to adjust the expectations of the person in relation to his work so that he is more in line with reality. It's at some point talking about career balance and identifying with the person what she wants and what she can still do. It may be the construction of a new professional project. It is to define with the worker the type of psychological support he needs. When we talk about the green column, right on the slide, it's really this idea: what kind of individual support does the worker need? It is also to exchange and prepare him for an exchange on working conditions with his workplace. It's actually preparing him to negotiate what could be a restructuring of his role at work, renegotiating his working conditions a little bit. This is really an accompaniment of the worker over time by this worker burn-out which allows to rework his cognitions in relation to the work and to identify his resources. I think it is important that burn-out speakers be well trained. They must be professionals with clinical expertise coupled with experience of organizational reality and, if possible, work clinic training. The ideal profile corresponds to the working clinician psychologist who has an additional work or clinical degree that combines both components or a clinical psychologist who has completed a master's degree in risk management and well-being at work. We are looking for profiles with good knowledge of psychopathology but who also know the reality of work. The mission of the burn-out intervenor is to make a diagnosis, including a differential diagnosis, to organize clinical consultations at work, to monitor the maintenance and return to work and, ideally, to suggest to the employer recommendations for a return on primary prevention and for the improvement of working conditions in the enterprise. In my last slide, I simply specify the knowledge required to carry out this mission. They are linked to organizational reality, but the burn-out worker must also have good skills in mental health assessment and general psychopathy and work, in work clinics. He must be familiar with individual stress management techniques and skills in communication and mediation, in case of discussion with the worker about working conditions. Indeed, it is important to know the dynamics of interaction in the organisations and thus to be able to inform the worker.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-23-54-commissie-ic669x.u3	Your vous remerce, Madame Hansez.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-23-54-commissie-ic669x.u4	Thank you for inviting us here to bring our story. Besides burn-out I also want to talk about passion, mentioned in English work engagement. I would like to bring both items together, because I think the stories about burn-out offer a lot of opportunities to bring a positive message to employers and employees. I will give you some current insights and also a number of messages for you. One of the messages was already given in the previous presentation: there are three symptoms of burn-out, but the diagnosis is difficult. My second message is that it's a work-related condition. If we want to do something about the prevention and treatment of burn-out, we therefore need intervention at work. There is already a legislative framework for this. Think about the KB on psychosocial risk derivatives, health surveillance and the KBS on reintegration. A focus for you is to make SME proof of that legislation, because many of these KBBRs are written for large companies and turn out to be very difficult to implement in practice for SMEs where about half of our employees work anyway. A third point I would like to give you is that it is very important to quickly guide people who fail through a burn-out and to help them integrate into work. By that, I don't always mean a return to the same work. I would also like to mention the motivation of the employees and incentives for employers. This is again a positive story and not a story of sanctions and obligations. Finally, I would like to mention the social challenges we face. I'll make it very concrete. I'm also gonna give you an order in the next ten minutes. You see Dirk, 36 years old, he's a bank clerk and he's got his hands in the hair. He shows the three symptoms of burn-out, and my question to you is: where do you think Dirk will go, to which aid worker, and what will that aid worker do with Dirk? Try to hold that for a second. I hope that at the end of my presentation we will reach the same conclusion. We just heard the definition of burn-out. I will not repeat it, but I will put the definition of enthusiasm against it, which is actually the opposite of burn-out. My message here is that the prevention of burn-out is actually best realised by making people very passionate and enthusiastic at work. A much more positive story. We did a fairly large study a while ago, as you can see from the number of participants, in Belgian hospitals. We have questioned doctors and nurses with the instrument UBOS, which is mentioned earlier, which will question the three characteristics of burn-out. A first important consideration here: despite the fact that it is a scale that is used very frequently, it is possible to report different percentages on the risk of burn-out. There are actually three possibilities for interpretation. In the first case, all three characteristics are high. Then you will see that we talk about burn-out at about 6 to 7 %, both at the P, being the physicians or doctors, as well as at the N, the nurses or nurses. The other definition is actually a combination of emotional exhaustion with either depersonalization, or a sense of reduced personal ability. That is the second definition that is used very frequently. In that case, percentages are very common around 18 %. If you add that to the first definition I have given, you will find that about one in four is burning out. There are even studies that focus only on one element. That is the most important element of burn-out, namely emotional exhaustion. In this case it is seen that in the healthcare sector 40% of doctors scored high on emotional exhaustion. We can see that the three percentages in the media and in the scientific literature are often confused as being a burn-out. For example, you have a background and you know what tool and cut-off values have been used, if you are going to interpret numbers. I'm a doctor of training, and I can tell you that so far we haven't had any blood parameters to diagnose a burn-out. The difficulty of diagnosis is also recognised in the medical environment. It is also not included in the DSM-5. We are currently at KU Leuven investigating whether we can develop a biomarker through epigenetic mechanisms for differential diagnosis of stress, burn-out and depression. I have dealt with my first point. The second concerns the work-related aspect. I brought you two press articles. We often see a debate about whether the fault lies with the employee or with the work. I think there are factors on the employee's side, but also on the work side. But I started my story by indicating that burnout is a work-related condition. This means that the work always plays a role, despite the fact that personality features also play a role. Otherwise, we can't talk about a burnout. So one doesn't rule out the other. I don't know how far your analysis is from Dirk. I have given you the difficult task of listening to me and solving an exercise in the meantime. Maybe you agree with me that Dirk probably ended up with his GP. I see there's nodding and that reassures me. What's the doctor gonna do? Probably write out a disease certificate. I'll talk about the duration later. Whatever he's gonna do, if it's a little bit of luck, it's pointing to a psychologist. In other words, the GP and the psychologist will focus very strongly on working on the individual. That is one element, albeit an important element, of burn-out. I'll zoom in on this a little bit more. I've been talking about these personality dimensions. In the literature there is talk about the big five. As one looks at the animals in Africa, we look at the personality characteristics from the big five. You can see them listed here. What one sees in literature is that everyone has personality characteristics, sometimes more pronounced, sometimes less pronounced, which increase or lower the risk of burn-out. There is little consistency in literature on this. The most striking thing is that conscientiousness, also called perfectionism, can both increase and reduce the risk of burn-out. So be careful just to look at the personality dimensions or characteristics. In other words, let's look at work. I introduced you to the study we did in hospitals a while ago. What I'm going to tell you about this study, we can also apply it in other sectors. In the previous sessions they have already presented the Job Demands-Resources model. I'd like to point this out. In every sector in which we conduct research into risk derivatives on burn-out, it is seen that the working pressure is as a risk factor with a point of reference at number 1, or more precisely the perceived work pressure, that which the employee himself experiences. What is a stressful situation for me may be just a situation that gives you energy. The same work situation can thus be perceived differently by different people with different competences. In places 2 and 3 there are "rolling conflicts" and "emotional exhaustion/pressure" which is actually typical in the care. What also stands out is that in job requirements, there is no arrow going to work engagement, being passionate. So when working on it, people are working on the prevention of burn-out, but there is no link to work engagement. We see this again and again in every sector. It is particularly striking and very interesting. Let us now look at a second element. Work also offers a lot of opportunities to excite people. Jobresources, resources at work, ensure that people are enthusiastic and committed. At the same time, as you can see from the dash line, that reduces the risk of burn-out. How can that be achieved? By focusing on autonomy, using the talents and skills of the employees and, above all, by providing social support, among colleagues, but also as managers. In the healthcare sector, it is very striking that three out of four doctors and nurses indicate that they feel that their skills are being used too little. This is a particularly striking observation, and we urgently need to remedy it. Now I come to the consequences of burn-out. Most arrows start from emotional exhaustion. That also makes sense, because burnout is a exhaustion-related condition. There has been talk recently of longer work and of reducing long-term absenteeism. Well, if we want to do something about it, then we need to work on job requirements and job resources. A striking point is the questioning of nurses. We conducted that survey when the retirement age was still 65 years old. Almost ninety percent of those interviewed indicated that they didn't want to work until his or her 65th in his or her current job. We know from other research that if people report this, there is a very good chance that they will leave the job. That is an important signal and we need to address it. Another element, depersonalization, distance, is also linked to having experienced a clinical incident. I may have made a medical mistake, and I can't handle it very well. That'll double my risk of burnout. This is again a very important issue for which hospitals need space and attention to prevent depersonalisation on the one hand and, on the other hand, to prevent further medical incidents on the other. When one then looks at work commitment, one sees the opposite of what I have just shown in emotional exhaustion. Is burn-out a problem for the healthcare sector? No. We have also done research in the public authorities, industry and services sectors, and we come to the same conclusion each time. It is the job demands, the demands within an organization, that determine the risk and not necessarily the sector. Another important message to give. In other words, what we have seen here together, the practice we know, must be complemented to an important extent by interventions at work. This is a complete schedule. It's in the slides, and I'll give it to you so you can read it. It gives an overview of the actions that can be undertaken at any level, a combination of individual and organizational interventions, both in primary, secondary and tertiary prevention. I would like to dwell on another element. These are figures from the RIZIV you've probably seen before. More than a third of the disabled persons, who are disabled for a period of more than one year, are in category 5, i.e. mental diseases. That number is rising. How come someone with a mental disorder eventually falls out for more than a year? That has something to do with the nature of the condition. You will see here a graph that we often see again, regardless of the original reason of illness duration. At the bottom of the X-axis you will see the duration of disease and on the Y-axis you will see the percentage of people who are still absent. In the return to work we actually see three major phases. A first phase is called the acute phase. That's actually three to four weeks' absence. Those people are actually going to reintegrate back in a spontaneous way. As far as the second phase is concerned, sub-acute and chronic, the likelihood of reintegration is suddenly falling very rapidly. Please note that it will be particularly difficult to re-integrate this group into work from 12 weeks onwards, being only three months of incapacity for work. Three months only. There is one of the problems with burn-out: to recover from burn-out, one easily exceeds the cape of three months. That makes it very difficult for patients, because of the doubts they themselves have, to return, to take that step themselves. On the other hand, we see that employers also have doubts about successful reintegration. How can we do that? Let us look at what we know from scientific literature. We have done a study and found that there are actually only ten good studies in the literature, particularly few of which have studied the impact of an intervention on rapid and sustainable reintegration. What you see here is the following. There are five studies that have only worked on the individual, two only on intervention at work and three on the combination. Let me give you a moment to consider which of these three categories would have a significant reduction in the duration of sick leave. Based on my story it is noted that only working on the individual has zero effect. In an intervention at the workplace, the two studies effectively showed a decrease in duration. In the combination, two out of three showed a decrease in duration. Again, intervention at work is particularly important, even crucial. That is why we have now started a RIZIV-funded project, focusing on the general practitioners. The general practitioners prescribe the disease certificate and are the first caregivers to whom people end up with a burn-out. The aim is to develop a care pathway, a bit by analogy with the two care pathways that already exist, which are a care pathway for chronic renal failure, on the one hand, and diabetes, on the other. The idea of the care pathway is that the patient steps into such a care pathway and that this care pathway is funded. The patient steps in and is then supposed to go through the different steps in the care process. In our care process we work both on the individual, with the referral to the psychologist, and on the intervention at work, with the referral to the company doctor and other actors. What is important here is that the GP will coordinate. As for the other two care pathways, he will receive financial support for the inclusion of that coordinating role. The benefit for the patient is also that the consultations will be refunded. So we actually make it very accessible, with a low threshold. However, it is not simply non-binding. If the patient doesn't follow the trajectory, then the financial benefits will disappear. In other words, here we are going to support the patient and give a financial incentive instead of checking and sanctioning. One final point I would like to mention is whether burn-out is now a sign of time. Actually, I think so. We all have to think about that. It's perhaps a more philosophical fact that I'd like to give you here. There's time pressure, we're all busy. There is also a lot of social pressure. We're busy all the time, we don't have much rest in our heads. A final point is also the performance pressure. I don't know if you know the series "Rox" and its slogan, "Falen" is not an option. Actually, we can't make mistakes anymore, we can't fail anymore. If we fail, it will be punished immediately. I plead for failure to be seen as an opportunity to improve. I think that the committee and we as researchers cannot take failure as an option, but rather as a challenge to tackle this problem in a positive way. I'd like to end with this, so with the five take home messages I've been able to give. If you would like to read more, I refer you to the book Burn-out in the care that we have written with four authors. I'm also going to publish a book Working is cured, about the side effect of the disease attestation. That book will come out in the summer. The target audience are doctors and caregivers. I call on them to think carefully about the fact that a disease attestation is a particularly powerful medicine, but that there are particularly large side effects with frequent and prolonged use. I thank you for your attention and for making this exercise with me.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-23-54-commissie-ic669x.u5	Thank you, Mr Godderis. Our last speaker is Mr Dewulf.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-23-54-commissie-ic669x.u6	Good morning. Thank you for inviting me. I'm Luk Dewulf. I am both author of books about talent and books about burn-out. I would first like to confirm the story of the fellow Members present. I believe that there is very good scientific material available. When I wrote my books, I also based myself on these two researchers. The definitions are very clear, the concepts are very clear, their research is very supportive for people who work in practice, including me. I'm a talent coach, I'm a burn-out coach. People can contact me individually for burn-out coaching but I also support large and small companies, non-profit organisations and social-profit organisations through workplace interventions and by accompanying them, both in prevention and at the time when people are stuck in a burn-out. The definition of burn-out cited is a very consistent definition. I think it is important that we continue to apply this definition properly. I am very often approached by people who try to convince me that one can also get a burn-out in one's private relationship or that one can get a burn-out at school. I believe that the mechanisms leading to exhaustion are the same, but one cannot call this a burn-out. It is absolutely important that we retain the energy loss associated with the working environment as an essential part of the definition of burn-out. As indicated, there is a difference between burn-out and depression. I have to say, for the intake, for the history of someone with a burn-out, I take an average hour and a half. I doubt sometimes. Doctors are incredibly well-educated, but I think it is a huge challenge for a doctor to find a burnout in 15 minutes. That's not easy at all. I get scared when I hear that people with burn-out are at risk of getting antidepressants prescribed. When they are treated as depressed, they get mixed up. I believe that the attention of doctors in this area, and the professionalism in dealing with it, are very important. At the same time, of course, I rely on their expertise. It has also been pointed out just now that it is very important that people at risk of burning out are very passionate people. These are people with very high intrinsic motivation, people with a very high sense of responsibility. I always say sloths don't burn out. They might say that, but it won't be a burnout. I say that because I can be extremely annoyed by statements made by some captains or industry in the newspapers, who say that they are all profiteers. When one sits at home with a burn-out, one sits at home with a very high guilt. One feels guilty because one cannot contribute to one's organization. People run up against the walls and statements that come in the media in that area are statements that can push people even deeper into the pit. It is important to respond to those people, including politicians who make that kind of statement, because they have an absolutely negative effect on people who suffer from a burn-out. In my practice I distinguish between two different dynamics that can lead to a burn-out, and they are also recognizable by the people who come to me for coaching. The first dynamic is a dynamic of people who cross their boundaries. In general, these are people with a high sense of responsibility, people who are perfectionistic in nature and people who are incredibly loyal and hard work. These are people who cross their borders, who at some point are no longer able to do it all and who are frustrated at the same time because they fail to fulfil their responsibilities. They work harder and harder and at some point the body starts to show fatigue signals. What then typically happens to those people is that they do not listen to the signals of the body, which indicates that it is going beyond its limits. At some point, the body says "stopping" in a drastic and often surprising way and ensures that people can no longer work. The first days or weeks when these people come home, they have a huge feeling of guilt. They feel like they're abandoning people, they've failed. In that first period, getting rest in the head is often impossible because they feel they have failed. Often it takes a while before they dare, can and will accept that they have ended up in a burn-out. What I notice in practice is that it is very important for those people to be able to catch their breath first, physically rest and then gradually re-enter into the domestic atmosphere, without pressure and in a relaxed way. I support the idea that working on passion is much more important than working on avoiding burn-out. Those people need to be able to recharge their batteries. What, however, is seen in the general picture? If someone with a burn-out paints his gazebo and a neighbor comes by, they will think: "He sits at home with a burn-out and you should see him painting his gazebo now! When it comes to burn-out imaging, I think it is important to say the following: it is not because one has a disease certificate and is sick at home that one should behave like a sick person. That's a big difference. It is incredibly important that people sitting at home with a burn-out, to the extent possible, be active in a physical way, that they are engaged in relaxing activities. Imaging in this area needs to be supported with these kinds of messages. We must ensure that certain clichés are certainly not followed and that no attention is paid to them. In general, my experience is that the people of this first group, to the extent that they have stopped working on time, can recover reasonably well. At the same time, I notice that a number of people, having crossed their borders for so long, are never able to reach the same level in the organisation where they have worked. Very often there is a grieving process involved, about the fact that they are no longer able to handle what they used to do. For a number of people it has to accept that they will never be able to reach the same level again an almost fatal blow, but at the same time there is a large group of people who can achieve the recovery in a good way. A second target group are people who get stuck in a relational dynamic, a relational fighting dynamic. In my experience, in my practice, they form the majority of the people who come to me for burn-out coaching. When it comes to a number of characteristics, I cannot speak from science, but from practice, it is noted that there is a target group that is more likely to burn out than others. Often they are very intelligent people, often they are very driven people, but they do not like to do something against their will. It's people who need to be able to work with passion. They are often very sensitive people, with a high sense of justice. These are all characteristics of the ideal employee, but when one combines them in one person, they are often people who are not so easily able to deal with the injustice they see in their environment, and who also want to stand up against it. The relational dynamics are a dynamic of very driven people who encounter someone at work who at some point, often totally unexpectedly, causes them to be restrained in their drive or that their drive becomes impossible. They get a new supervisor, who behaves completely differently than a previous supervisor; they don't get a certain promotion; they don't get finance for a big project; they sometimes feel that they're being talked about; they make something discussable in a clumsy way, resulting in tension between them and usually one person in the immediate working environment. The result is that they start to worry about it at home and then send a clumsy e-mail, give a clumsy message, with the result that the conflict gets even worse and in such a way that there is an increasing distance between that person, who is beginning to experience energy loss, and the other person. The result is that they can only worry and discuss in their own heads all the time, having dialogues with one person at work. They feel humiliated, hurt. They feel they're experiencing injustice. It's often that peckering, that emotional burden of that peckering, that causes those people to crash at some point. Then they'll come home and sit. A burnout is being established. What happens at these people's house is they walk up the walls. After all, they are very passionate, driven people. They want nothing more than work, but not in the place where they have become ill. That is a big problem for people who are stuck in that relational dynamic. What's going on? Those involved are at home. I guide a lot of them. I do that in two ways. I give, on the one hand, as an individual coach coaching. At the same time, on the other hand, an organisation is asked to make interventions within the working environment. I facilitate conversations with people trapped in the relational dynamics. An absolutely major problem for people trapped in relational dynamics is that they very often extend their sick leave because they do not want to go back to the place where they have become ill by someone. In this way, people sometimes extend their sick leave three, four, five, six or seven times. They are willing to do everything and work because they have opportunities, but they do not want to work where they have become ill. The very big problem for me is that in the case of organisations that are not flexible in providing other possibilities, for other contexts or temporary contexts for the integration of people, the duration of burn-outs is thus being extended in a non-productive way for far too long. I myself am currently engaged in experiments, which I would like to try to organise for people who are living with a relational burn-out at home, in consultation with the organisation of talent placements in which people come from sick leave and go back to work. However, they de facto do an internship for three or four months, allowing them to revitalize their passion and their areas of interest and recharge their batteries, and then go together with them, after teaching a number of skills, in consultation with the employer. The question asked is whether they are going to work in the same place again or whether they are looking for another place within the same organisation or whether they are making a different choice. The aim is to drastically reduce the duration of burn-outs in order to help organisations reduce the number of people who are ill. Such experiments are very important. Let me give you an example. In my experience, the problem of relational burn-outs is huge in education. If you look at people in education in your environment, you will find that the number of people living with a burn-out due to a relational dynamic at home is huge. Just in education, the ability to return and work in another place is very small.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-23-54-commissie-ic669x.u7	People are almost forced to go back to the same place. As long as, for example, education is unable to create flexible opportunities, you will find that the number of burn-outs in education is increasing. I believe that the duration of burn-outs in education will continue to be long and too long. There is absolutely no need for people who have that kind of burn-out to stay home for so long. If there is flexibility to offer these people other places, I think you will be able to see a perhaps spectacular decline in the duration of burn-outs. I can give some advice to organizations. I believe that the legislation to prevent burn-out contains a number of very good elements. At the same time, I am sending out a message, and this is also supported by previous speakers, Mr President-in-Office, that dialogue in organisations is crucial. Managers, managers and fellow officers must dare to be vulnerable and dare to ask themselves what they are doing to cause a colleague to suffer from them, and vice versa. That is an open, vulnerable dialogue. It is necessary not only for organisations to place responsibility for this on the shoulders of each manager; each manager, but also every employee, must take responsibility for it. I don't think burnout is ever the fault of the employee or employer, but it's always, and by definition, a shared responsibility of the different parties. Unshared debt, but shared responsibility. Finally, I have a few more messages. I am absolutely convinced that with regard to the high number of burnouts, which is also increasing, there is a very great responsibility for politics. I believe that the climate of fear and unrest created by politics at the moment is putting enormous pressure on people. I myself am part of the most prosperous generation ever in our country, and yet we are in a permanent climate in which we present people that it is not going well, that the crisis is. The climate of fear and unrest is on people's shoulders. I note that, and this seems to be confirmed by a number of figures, people are increasingly hesitant to change jobs. One feels that it does not work in his job and that one is having a hard time, but one clings to the golden cage. They don't want to change. They have a house to pay off. They've got kids who need good education. They have a car. And instead of asking themselves if they wouldn't be better off working in another place. People are holding on. The fact that people cling to work and no longer dare to opt for a change of job is, in my opinion, a huge factor in this. As far as I am concerned, when it comes to the positive story about which Professor Godderis spoke, one creates passion in society by, for example, offering a positive perspective for the future that a whole generation of people can build up, creating hope and making people feel that not only the economy works better, but that there are opportunities for the future as well. This makes people a lot calmer and dare to choose much more from the heart, from the belly to change jobs, for example, if they want to. I believe that employers also have a very important responsibility. I have already said that derogatory statements in the media about people with burn-out cannot be made. I also think that people should be called upon to say that this is really not possible. One final point concerns the social partners, the trade unions. They play a good role in preventing abuse and harassment. They will also facilitate the right to engage in dialogue with colleagues. At the same time, I notice that conflicts are being stirred up and turned into a power struggle. When a burn-out of relational nature is reduced to a power conflict in which there is a struggle, there is always at least one victim. The impact of such conflicts on human lives cannot be underestimated. That's what I wanted to tell you. Thank you so much for inviting me. I hope it'll help you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-23-54-commissie-ic669x.u8	Thank you very much, Mr Dewulf.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-23-54-commissie-ic669x.u9	Madam President, first of all I would like to thank Mrs Hansez, Mr Godderis and Mr Dewulf for the very good presentations, from which I have already learned a great deal, which was also one of the objectives of this hearing. Mr Dewulf, I have two questions. I'll start with you because you just finished. You say that very often the work situation and the relational work situation are at the root of a burn-out. You also say that sitting at home for a long time and staying at home only makes the situation worse over time and that people often do not dare to change jobs, to try something new, because they risk losing everything. In view of all these elements, I have a question about the concept on which we have tabled a legislative proposal. This is about job integration jobs, in which people with long burn-out are given the opportunity to take up work with another employer without risk, i.e. while retaining the benefit and all accompanying benefits. In this way, they may be able to rediscover their talents or exploit them in a different way. Then they can move on to regular work or to somewhere else. They can then pick up the thread, without, as is the case now, being forced to go back to that previous working environment. I would like to know your opinion on this from your practical experience. A month and a half ago there was a lot to do in the press, but I think it was misunderstood at the time, because it was thought that someone with the risk of a burn-out could immediately go to another employer, while I was talking about people who have been burning out for a long time, to give them a chance to try something else without any risk. Secondly, you yourself indicated that everyone has butter on their heads: politicians, employers, trade unions. When you referred to the trade unions, you spoke mainly of a power struggle and so on. I would like to know whether the trade unions cannot play a greater and better role in terms of greater flexibility in an organisation. I understand from your explanation, and indeed from those of the other speakers, that it is very important for those people to change things within the organisation and to develop an individualised approach, tailored to those people. However, collective agreements and approaches sometimes make it difficult between the employer and the individual employee to develop tailor-made arrangements. The same applies to mobility in the labour market. Even if people want to change jobs, they often stay in their golden cage, also because our labour market allows far too little flexibility to employers at macro level. Hence my question: can the trade unions not play a greater role in allowing a little more flexibility, both within and between organisations in the labour market? I have one more question, Mr Godderis. Maybe I'm kicking in an open door, but there's a remarkably strong increase in the number of people with burn-out. The speakers have mentioned many factors, which I follow and understand. However, such a sharp increase raises questions. Was the work so different ten years ago, so less stressful? Was there so much less pressure at the time that it's only because of that? Or does it have something to do with the prescription behaviour of the doctors and the fact that this is so common in the media, that it is talked about so often, that it is so much more known, that doctors make the diagnosis burn-out faster and employees feel burned-out faster? It may not be possible to answer this question in writing, but I would like to hear your opinion on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-23-54-commissie-ic669x.u10	Madam President, I am particularly sorry that Mr Van Quickenborne, the chairman of the Social Affairs Committee, has not heard the story, because he often makes statements about it. So I thought it might also be interesting to listen, but that is of course a very heavy effort. I would like to thank the three speakers for the very clear input and also for the nuance of the story. I hope that all the committee members will understand that in that way too. I myself, as a minister, started a sensitization campaign on this subject, because there... Look, the chairman heard. I didn't know I had so much influence to let him in right away.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-23-54-commissie-ic669x.u11	Perhaps I am already answering a bit what Mr Spoorten is saying, but I do think it is a combination of personality factors... People who, often for their appreciation, are very dependent on or listen to the outside world, are of course also more sensitive to social pressure, to evaluations that are constantly taking place, no evaluation or negative comments etc. One of Mr Godderis' initial remarks was that the current regulation is mainly aimed at large companies, which can afford to have a good HRM service, with specialists and experts who might have a focus on it. However, especially in Flanders, there are a lot of SMEs and family businesses, led by very strong characters and where one should not have too many compliments. That's the Flemish nature that comes up. People often still look at burn-out... As Professor Dewulf says, it is still often: work, shut up, move on and don't get too sick. How can we ensure that SMEs are given more structural attention to this? I have seen that in many companies a burn-out is not an isolated fact. It's usually a series of cases. We have put forward proposals to make this possible in the works council. For example, employers, trade unions and other partners sitting around the table can take a structural view of what makes people sick in our work organisation. What makes people fall out? How can we change that? So I'm looking at it mostly preventively. I have difficulty with the last part of Mr Spooren's analysis of trade unions and flexibility. Flexibility means adapting to changing circumstances and leaving space for them. But flexibility can come from different sides when it comes to giving them, but also to asking them. Employers, trade unions and employees all want flexibility. The big problem is that the different interpretations of flexibility in reality often contradict each other. The employer wants flexibility for his finality, the employee for his. This is often the combination of work and personal life and family. I believe that it is a good thing to enter into dialogue to find solutions to this problem. But suggesting that the employer gets more flexibility would, in my opinion, make a burn-out even more possible. The crucial question is, therefore, how do we make SMEs' employers aware of the problem and give them tools and opportunities to address the risks and to change attitudes. I think that last point is the hardest. Thanks for the input.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-23-54-commissie-ic669x.u12	In my turn, I would like to thank the three speakers we have received today in a second session on the subject of burn-out. I myself was one of the asking parties to organise this. The approach was actually next. There is a lot of talk about burn-out, and we are still looking for a proper definition, the right analysis, before remedies can be proposed, and we can consider proposing certain things from a policy point of view or not. In the first hearing, one of the specialists said that legislation cannot actually resolve this. There is already a great deal of welfare legislation, which has just been referred to. However, there can never be a law that states that people have to deal with each other in a proper way, whereas it often means that people respect each other's borders and deal with them in a normal way. Ladies and gentlemen, that is my first question to you. In your presentations, you discuss burn-out freely work-related, but I think that each of you in his or her own way has also referred to the broader social pressure placed on people, such as the pursuit of perfection, that we also see on television every day, for example. Every family gets some kind of model imposed. The children must all be the best in the hobbies they perform. There are also many new composite families. I myself am a young parent and I know what a run it means to get the kids' hobbies done on weekends and I know the cross to get everything ready in the evening. The problem is therefore perhaps wider than just the work-related part, which is perhaps the social indulgence in the day job. Has there been a broader study of the evolutions in recent years in our way of life and the way we organise ourselves? What exactly is work-related and what has to do with other existing social phenomena? I am also still left with the question of whether a scientifically accepted definition of the term burn-out exists at the moment. From a preventive point of view, of course, we look at this from the work situation, but when is there a burn-out and when is there other conditions related to it? I fully agree that the condition is very serious. Anyone who has seen someone with a burn-out in his area knows that the person is completely off the map and cannot function normally for months. I have another question for Mr Dewulf. You have touched an interesting point that I have already heard from other specialists. First about the work-related part. There are a number of causes that explain why someone ends up in a burn-out because of the work. As long as these factors are not addressed in that working environment, it does not make much sense for that person to return to that situation. He may be able to heal by building peace, but if one returns to the situation in which, for example, there is a conflict with a colleague or where there is discontent about the way the organisation of the work is organised or how the company or service is organized, it will never be resolved. It is then doomed to fall back into that situation. What I often notice is that the seniority in our work model weighs so much for someone to choose to leave work or not. When people change jobs, they give up a whole backpack of rights. The government is still the worst, because it has built up so much with a permanent appointment, a seniority and a wager model based on it; in the private sector, dismissal rights are based on it. Should we not strive for a built-up legal model that can be taken with us? There has long been a kind of backpack of rights in the private sector that can be taken away in the event of dismissal. When people change jobs, they often start from scratch. I think that's often where the problem lies. The importance we attach to seniority in our system means that people stay in a golden cage and say: I have 15 or 20 years to go; I have built something for 20 years; I have built rights; if I leave now, I will lose it. They'll just stay in an unhappy job, making them sicker and sicker. I think the element of seniority is really underestimated. I would like to hear their views from the speakers. Should we not go to another model, so that changing jobs for an employee is made easier? I would also like to comment on what Mrs De Coninck says. I hope that we in this committee will not fall into political games again. We are referring to Mr Spoelen or the President to say that they are in favour of greater flexibility. I think that flexibility must come from both sides. That can only be positive if it is made possible on both sides. I believe that Mr Spoorten has no more intention than that more concrete agreements can be a positive thing for everyone. I really hope, Mrs De Coninck, if I may speak out for a moment: let us not fall into political games and look for elements in the workplace that can make life more enjoyable for everyone, coupled with good productivity, but in a human way, without falling into dogmas, because I think this would be wrong.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-23-54-commissie-ic669x.u13	I would like to thank the speakers for their comments. I have a few more questions about the difficulties they are experiencing in reintegrating. How is the burn-out reintegration plan currently going? Is that being applied or not? What things should change about that? At the moment, the social partners within the IPA are also working on this. Are you involved in this or have you submitted any report with recommendations? When it comes to the reintegration of long-term sick people, I suppose it should of course also be about people with burn-out. What are the specific needs or things that are not comparable to other sick people? Another point that was mentioned is that it is often about very dedicated, meticulous, perfectionist people. How is it handled to re-integrate these people in their workplace? What adjustments does that require from an employer? These are more personal qualities that make a person indeed a very good employee. How is it handled? Are there guidelines or agreements for employers? How does that actually work in practice? Finally. If the problem of burn-out also has to do with interpersonal relationships, with the employer or colleagues, then what is the role of the doctor? How is that handled? I do not think we can really intervene in that. How does it work in practice? Or is it not a question of declaring oneself competent and staying away from that personal problem?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-23-54-commissie-ic669x.u14	Mr President, I would like to thank the speakers for their very interesting statements. Since the beginning of this legislature, everyone has taken the word "workable work" into their mouths. It's become a bit of a fashion word, but what's behind it? Green and Ecolo say that workable work is in the words themselves. Workable work is about workable work in the workplace. We see that the debate in Belgium is traditionally about working time and holidays, but that as a government people are a little reluctant to do things through legislation that have an impact on work and to make it workable. We find it rather absurd that people are mainly working on the framework, but apparently they feel resistance to looking at how the government can play a role in the organization of work. I understood something completely different from Mr Lachaert from the hearings. I remember that, for example, Mieke Smets by Janssen Pharmaceutica said that a legislative framework can be very stimulating and the government can take responsibility for it. Mieke Van Grammberen said that in the fight against burn-out too often too much weight goes to the individual and too little to the company organisation. The importance of the work organisation and the government which has a role to play in it was also confirmed by those speakers. I am afraid that we have been running around in this area for a number of years, if we continue to refer to the individual and to social trends. They are undoubtedly very important, but let that not be an excuse not to do what needs to be done, even as a government towards business organisations. I feel that we sometimes act like a dog that bites its own tail and we turn around because we do not want to talk about the role that the government has to play in terms of workable work and in those business organisations themselves. We have made a lot of proposals on this. For example, the Minister of Work can set a numerical target on reducing the number of debilitating jobs, or one can offer companies a framework. Other countries have already shown us this, such as Finland, to make the transition from an ordinary to an excellent workplace. Support companies in that. An example of this is the work Flanders Synergy of Mieke Van Grammberen does. However, we have now heard in the Flemish Parliament that the funding of Flanders Synergy is being wiped out from the Flemish government. I believe that the opposite is important, that much more is needed. I think that for companies and, as Mr Godderis also said, smaller SMEs should have such a thing because they are hard to bring that know-how into their homes. In Flanders we see a different movement, namely pruning in something that works as well as Flanders Synergy. That is incomprehensible to me in times of increasing burn-outs and long-term ill. The fact that we hold hearings on this issue already points to the importance of this. Then Flanders Synergy is financially wiped out in Flanders. I'm standing there and I'm looking at it. My question to you is what role you see for the government throughout this story. Do you feel the same way that, because of the government's refusal to look at the workplace itself, we are not actually taking many steps forward? You're all saying it's about individual matters. However, they are often very stressed. We are still very hesitant about this work organisation, including from the government. What opportunities do you see in that respect? Do you believe that the government should include this and go up to that level of business, offering frameworks and the like? Or do you think there's no role in this for the government? How do you guys see that? I firmly believe that the government has a huge responsibility in this regard, in view of the cost of social security for long-term sick and burn-out people. I think there is nothing we can do but really take up this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-23-54-commissie-ic669x.u15	Mr President, in turn, I would like to thank the three speakers for the explanations and information they have provided us this morning. We often hear, and you confirm, that burn-out is a form of physiological response of the body to an untenable environment and working conditions. What, in your opinion, should change in terms of work organisation, or even mentality, in order to get out or reduce these burn-out cases? Many leads have been raised today. You talked about prevention, but what does it matter to put the most forward? We are talking more and more about the burn-out of the self-employed and for some time also about family and parental burn-out. I don't think there's any category, indeed. We have heard about the burn-out of work and in this connection I join my colleague Egbert Lachaert in saying that, indeed, we must take into account a whole combination of elements such as lifestyle, family situations, the constant race against time... Mr Dewulf has, in fact, clearly targeted that burn-out is work. I would therefore like to know whether the other two speakers also share this view and whether it can be assumed that the burn-out has indeed a broader dimension than that of work. A third issue concerns connectivity resulting from technological change. At any time, we can receive our e-mails, during the day, on weekends; on public holidays. All this makes the worker feel constantly having to respond immediately. Some say that this can influence behaviour, by failing to get away mentally from work, from their professional activities. What is your analysis of this phenomenon? My fourth question concerns telework. What is your analysis? From the moment of teleworking, the organization of life is different: less waste of time on journeys, one can organize one's life differently. In your opinion, is this a solution against burn-out? I come to my last question. Much has been said about the prevention, diagnosis and accompaniment of people suffering from burn-out. What are the solutions? Have there been any positive results? Have there been any healings? What were the outcomes? Can we talk about the complete outputs of the burn-out or does the burn-out continue - after healing - to weigh in daily life?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-23-54-commissie-ic669x.u16	Are there any people who would like to intervene? No? I shall now give the floor again to Mrs Hansez, Mr Godderis and Mr Dewulf.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-23-54-commissie-ic669x.u17	Thank you for all these questions. It is indeed quite varied! Can we cure burn-out? Can we talk about a full burn-out? When you take the cases in the work clinic, it is clear that a person who has experienced a burn-out always has the signals in mind. She's going to be aware of the signals that got her a little bit derailed in her way of adapting to her work. What we are often told is that we can get out of it, but we always keep in mind the symptoms, indicators and alarms that make us think that we could actually fall back into a spiral. It is also important that the person be followed to identify these signals and alarms. What has been stressed a lot today is this idea that we have had an intensification of work for many years. No one's gonna deny it. The margins of freedom are narrow. Nor can we deny this, since international competitiveness has developed. As I said to you, at the level of work organisation, and Lode Godderis also stressed it with the Job Demands-Resources model, we really have a lever of action with resources, considering the positive and motivational aspects. The resources actually increase the commitment and the positive and valuing side of the work, but also reduce the impact of constraints on resources. I told you about community management. Lode Godderis told you about autonomy, quality work, support from colleagues. Different elements of the labour resources can be activated to try to regulate working conditions in primary prevention. He has already been experimented with in some companies. I admit that the fine models of intervention generally apply to large companies, but there are indications that increasing resources among workers is an interesting way forward. This can be a regulation of the information you receive at work. We talked about hyperconnectivity, but we're also drowned under the flow of information in general. If we manage to regulate this information, it can be interesting. This can sometimes be administrative aids in some cases, for people with high profiles. We often have more active approaches at this level, but these can also be solutions in terms of the resources that are given to workers. Beyond everything that is the organization of work and intensification of work, I also think – and you have stressed it well – that we are facing very important sociological changes today. We already have nomadic careers. In general, young people today no longer have the same job all their lives. It is true that the idea of having an ease in occupational transitions is due to the new forms of work organisation and new forms of employment, sometimes by combining several jobs. Today we're talking about moonlighters, etc. All this change in employment and careers may require a reflection on how to transport (this is the image of the backpack) social rights. This is about their portability between different jobs, etc. We have just worked on the work intermediaries in relation to this flexibility at the career level. I think it's a thought that might be interesting. Sociological mutations are also a mutation of families, family cells. You ask me if we have ever been able to study the impact of this difficulty in reconciling work and private life. Studies have indeed been carried out on the impact of reconciliation or work-family or family-work conflict on well-being. It is clear that it is also a determining factor. Is telework a solution? It makes it possible to waste less time on the journeys. Living in Liège, I know that the day of telework is the happy day, because we can organize ourselves a little as we want. It's a bit cartoonal but I think there are actually models that can work. It is also necessary to pay attention to the setback in his work because there are organizational difficulties related to the fact that there is no informal space to exchange work, etc. Sometimes there are also situations where you work on long-term projects, it's good, but there are also situations where you have more pressure in terms of profitability when you're on telework than when you're at work. I think we really need to look at this feasibility in a very systemic way. We must not forget all the areas of collective regulation at work that are beneficial. The importance of social support was discussed. It's a solution, but it really needs to be considered almost on a case-by-case basis. Given the sociological changes at the family level and the difficulties of displacement which we know of the repercussions at the timing level, these solutions could be studied. With regard to hyperconnectivity, studies have shown that psychological detachment is important. The notion of psychological detachment at the scientific level is interesting. It can be psychological detachment in relation to its smartphone and in relation to daily connectivity. However, there is also talk about the importance of disconnecting and the benefit of breaks or leave. Studies have shown that people with cardiovascular risks are even more exposed when they are not granted leave. I can bounce back on the self-employed burn-out. A study was carried out in Liège on the burn-out of SME managers working with or without staff. She showed that their health and well-being conditions were in the red. The parental burn-out is a bit out of the field of work, but I see that the burn-out of SME managers and self-employed people is linked to work.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-23-54-commissie-ic669x.u18	Mr President, I will use my smartphone as a reminder and not as a connection. As regards trends in burn-out, we note that there is indeed a social trend towards more burn-outs, which has to do with the evolutions we see and the expectations we have at work, but also with the expectations at home. Failure is not an option. That's how I ended my presentation. That is what we expect from our home situation. In my presentation I also gave the example of 35-year-old Dirk. Why did I choose the age between 35 and 45? That's just because that age group is the generation that often has a lot of challenges at work combined with a lot of challenges in the home situation: young children, a home, a loan pay off, but also taking care of parents. So the problem lies in that combination. Nevertheless, I continue to stress that we are talking about a work-related condition here. Elements at home or personality characteristics do not dismiss us from doing interventions at work. I think the diagnosis burn-out is too easy and too quickly given. Moreover, I think it is more sympathetic that the victim of the accident or the patient can say that he or she has a burn-out. In that case, he or she has worked hard. Depression is more socially acceptable, which also explains the rising trend. I would also like to mention a number of elements about the idea of internships. Burn-out is an energy problem. It often takes energy to take the step to a different job. To respond to new challenges, someone has to be very strong. In order to do so, therefore, a very safe situation must be created. A second element or consideration is that I do not think it is always a solution, to consider that as the solution for all burn-outs. I doubt that idea. It is very well pointed out here that we need to securely create more opportunities and opportunities for those who come to the conclusion that their current job is no longer in line with the things that give them energy and which they like to do. In that sense, I follow the idea. On the other hand, it once again does not relieve us of looking at the cause at work. I used the image of the canary in the mine in my presentation, but I forgot to tell you. I think a burnout at work is the signal that something's going on. That's why this contamination happens all the time. In itself, the employee may come to the conclusion that this job no longer meets his competences and expectations, but also make the analysis at work to avoid collateral damage to the survivors. As far as SMEs are concerned, I can tell you that the KB on psychosocial risk derivatives is very difficult to implement in SMEs. For example, we see that more than 90% of SMEs have no psychosocial risk analysis. The confidant is known in less than half of the cases. It turns out that this is something we see in almost all legal aspects when it comes to SMEs that they are very difficult to penetrate the floor, while there is a lot of profit to be made. SMEs have one big advantage, which may also be their immediate disadvantage. That is the family connection and the strong integration into society. If one as a baker has an employee who fails because of burn-out, it has an indirect impact and the village has an opinion on that. This family relationship, which exists between the employee, the employer and colleagues, also makes it possible to do something about it. That is perhaps another element that I would like to add. If someone fails because of burn-out, then it is very important to look at it, together with my fellow Members, I refer back to my presentation, because the social support of fellow Members is very important how this can be resolved together. If there is reintegration, it is also important to have a discussion with fellow Members about how this reintegration can be achieved. I believe that SMEs should certainly be supported by incentives to get a temporary job resumption or part-time work compensated. When a baker has one or two employees, part-time work is interesting, but the bread has to be baked and sold. The question is whether we should not provide additional support for this. Furthermore, I believe that the royal decisions on well-being at work are often perceived as an obligation. I believe that they can be much more positive in their attention and that they can be an opportunity to improve the enthusiasm and health of the employees; then the work is seen as a context to improve mental health. What's the status of the reintegration plan? First of all, I would like to say that I feel that we are only starting up the reintegration plan at the moment. What we find is that in the external services the majority of applications come from employees. I will give you, for example, IDEWE's figures. About 60% of the reintegration plans were initiated by the employees, and 31.6 % by employers. We see that at the moment most of the questions that come to us are about dismissal for medical reasons, as it is called. Many of these questions give rise to termination of the contract of employment. This does not necessarily have to be negative, provided that there is a proper connection and that the person concerned does not end up in unemployment. There must be a very fast track to get back into the labour market, preferably in a job that matches the talents and competences of the employee. However, I would like to stress that in about 30% of cases, the company doctor managed to achieve reintegration, subject to adjustments to the job. The company doctors, together with the other prevention advisors, can therefore mean a lot even in relational burn-outs and create the framework for a dialogue that can help achieve sustainable reintegration. There are a lot of figures on reintegration paths, but I would also like to draw attention to another type of research that we are doing in occupational health services. Technically, we call this ex ante review. These are people who, while they are ill, spontaneously come to consultation for a condition caused by work, where they also expect problems in reintegration, and thus want to ask how this reintegration can be prepared. We see that there is the profit, because these people come with a motivated demand for support from the company doctor. Often this demand is also supported by the curative sector. We see that in the reintegration processes the demand for medical discharge is often supported by a certificate from the curative sector, which points out that someone can no longer work in these circumstances. I call for a much greater use of occupational medicine from the curative sector, general practitioners and specialists, through a referral to the specialist at work, just as a general practitioner for a skin problem that he cannot treat, would refer a patient to a dermatologist. I would like a context to be created for this, so that our fellow Members from the curative sector are aware that the possibility of referral to the specialist of the work can be fully exploited. Then the reintegration process will start in full. What we also see in our figures is that at the moment there are hardly any references from health insurance funds. So the application of the KB on reintegration does not seem to have been fully started there either. Self-employed and unemployed have also been mentioned. Many self-employed doctors cannot actually rely on the support of external services and company doctors. Then other structures are created. For example, the RIZIV has started such a project, which is very similar to what already exists in the external services. So my appeal is to give self-employed people access to that service and framework external services. I do not see why that statute would make that impossible. When it comes to work deconnect, I follow the advice of Mr Hansez. I'd like to answer a few questions about telework. We did a big study on that, too. We note that teleworking can offer a solution in certain circumstances, but there is also When people work telework five days a week, they're home alone. Then it's very difficult to deconnect. Moreover, one is deconnected with the managers and colleagues, so that one does not get social support, which one needs, nor coaching. Our study seems to suggest that there is an optimum of two or three days and that contact with the work is particularly important. Again, it is best advised to provide a room at home where one really goes to work, not to do the work in the pajamas, but to dress and eat and pause outside that local. In short, a number of rules must also be respected. Finally, a positive note, which can be prevented from burning out, can be cured. We can fix it. That's perfectly possible, there are a lot of success stories. I think Mr Dewulf will confirm that. However, it is seen that people who have experienced a burn-out are never the same. It's a far-reaching life event, but like any far-reaching life event, it's once again an opportunity to look at life differently. If that change can be made, it's a very positive story.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-23-54-commissie-ic669x.u19	Mr President, I will also try to answer the questions in order. Mr Spooren, there was your proposal a few weeks ago, and there was some swell about it. Thinking through politics to make other contexts possible, to experiment, is incredibly important. For me, the next thing is very important. If that context is aimed at making people decide to definitely go to a new job, it's not gonna work. If one sits at home with a burn-out, one does not know what one wants. That's just a burn-out, then one doesn't know what one wants in the future. Contexts should focus on giving people opportunities to be meaningful and useful from that talent, to recharge the batteries. In this sense, it is absolutely essential that people make an autonomous choice, because if they impose it, it will never work. That's something I'm convinced of. Secondly, there is the debate on trade unions and flexibility. I think that's a very delicate field of tension. I work in many organisations to create much more autonomy, so that people can work from their talents, with a lot of flexibility. And then sometimes I notice that there are discussions that I don't quite understand. Social partners aim at generating high quality work, ensuring that people are satisfied, at the same time ensuring that there is no injustice, that people have rights, that rights are safeguarded, that there is no abuse of people. It is then noted in these discussions that measures aimed at achieving greater autonomy, greater flexibility and, therefore, greater enthusiasm, sometimes seem to be blocked by forces from which I wonder where they come from. At the same time, I cannot assess the history of such a situation, because perhaps there are real arguments from which that resistance has arisen. The employer and the social partner then have absolutely the same priority, namely to ensure that people can be happy; however, when it comes to flexibility, I sometimes see discussions that I cannot properly understand, because it seems as if they are opposite, when they should actually be able to work together on that environment.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-23-54-commissie-ic669x.u20	Could you give me one or two examples of this?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-23-54-commissie-ic669x.u21	I cannot, of course, mention the specific organisation, but an example is an organisation that I know well, with both French-speaking and Dutch-speaking staff, where they strive to work much more from the talent. This means, for a part, getting away from the classic, formalized evaluation and functioning conversations. Frederik Anseel, who cannot be here today, says that informal guidance in the workplace is very important to management, but then we have to lighten the procedures and rules a lot. There is, of course, concern at this point: it cannot, it cannot, it must be signed if we have received a report on the operation of the conference and so on. There is a great distrust there that prevents innovation and flexibility, but, as I have said, I do not know what the history of such an organisation is. Perhaps there is a right to talk about possible abuse, but I cannot understand that at such a time.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-23-54-commissie-ic669x.u22	Do you have another example of flexibility that is being held back by social partners?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-23-54-commissie-ic669x.u23	Yeah, but that's not my point. My point is not that flexibility is, by definition, weakened. My point is that it is a delicate issue, in which the search for a link between the interests of the parties is not easy at all. I certainly don't put a blameful finger up, but there is an absolute tension field when it comes to how to steer, how to coach, how to use people according to their talent, experimenting with homework. The more space and flexibility one creates in this area, the more that can contribute, but of course one needs high-quality managers. I can therefore imagine that sometimes people say that it is necessary to protect a number of employees from certain executives who would just take advantage of such a situation. I understand all that, but I personally think it is a very delicate issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-23-54-commissie-ic669x.u24	My experience is that everything stands or falls with social confidence in the company or in the organization. If people trust each other and if there is a culture of respect, of meeting agreements, of giving and taking and finding a balance, then there can be a lot. However, if one feels that everything must always come from one side, then such pronounced situations arise with a great deal of failure. In the long run, there will be a culture in which decent agreements can no longer be made, because those who give something feel like they are going to be screwed. We need to work very hard on this mistrust. I would like to add a second case to that. I thought it was very good that one of you said that polarization today in our society is destroying a great deal. What really worries me in the long term is the following. Trust grows enormously slowly, one has to put a lot of energy into it and devote a lot of communication to it. However, distrust grows very quickly. I am therefore afraid that, for what has been destroyed in recent years, we will pay a very high price in many areas in the future. That will cost us a lot, and I mean that cost purely economically. The problem of burn-out involves enormous costs, including for SMEs. If we want to sensitise SMEs in one way or another, we must point out to them that burn-out is an expensive economic factor for them in addition to social costs throughout the whole story. In this sense, occupational doctors and legislation can work preventively. For one piece I would like to go along with Mr Spooren's reasoning on risk factors in a small company, in order to show them in both social and financial terms. We need to consider how we can also support smaller employers in the possibility of reintegrating workers who are out of work. This must be possible, in the interests of workers, but also in the interests of businesses.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-23-54-commissie-ic669x.u25	We have already discussed in detail what is happening in society. I would like to draw attention to our educational system. In it, children from 2.5 to 18 years of age are in a system that pays particular attention to what is not good. Children must learn how well they have performed using the red crosses on a test. During the entire primary school period, the word "to" shall be hammered on the word "to" or "to." Much too little work is being done on qualities such as leadership, self-direction, taking responsibility and so on. I think that in secondary education a huge revolution is needed to create much better prepared people from there before they enter society and the economy. I think it's important to create flexibility to change jobs. I hear, for example, that the conditions for time credit are under pressure. Oxygen and having space to take a break or to go away for a few months is important. Now there is a pressure to work harder and longer. There's the perspective of getting less and less oxygen. That factor plays an important role. So, creating space for people is very important. When it comes to the reintegration of people with burn-out, I notice that large organisations are often fairly well organised. Smaller organisations often see how difficult and delicate it is to deal with it. In large organizations people say that person A has a burn-out, while in small organizations it is not about person A but about Piet, Jan or Kristien. Then it's said that Kristien is a special case. Many people feel that the specific case of the person makes it difficult to deal with it. In smaller organisations, it is often much more difficult and delicate to deal with. Does anyone contact someone or not? The way in which this works often still has to be invented. I can see that's not easy for those people. Let's talk about the company doctor. I sometimes notice in organizations that there is a supervisor who has an employee with a burn-out. At some point, the file goes to the company doctor. The moment the file goes to the company doctor, the supervisor lets it go for a piece. However, I think there are many opportunities in the collaboration between the supervisor and a company doctor who has knowledge of organizational development and knowledge about talking to employees. I think there are many challenges to making this an interprofessional relationship, in which both are partners in reintegration, in which interventions in the organisation can be planned from the point of view of dialogue. When it comes to looking at the culture of organisations from a political point of view, I think that it can indeed be looked at, including the internal organisation. I would argue in favour of incentives aimed at challenging companies to invest in this. This is linked, for example, to the fact that employees applying to a company know to what extent that company has already shone in the past, to what extent a company has worked on a number of working conditions. That's what I'd be willing to argue for. I can also assure you that in the companies I mentioned as absolutely fantastic examples of corporate culture, there are also burn-outs. There is no company where all burn-outs can be absolutely eliminated, that is absolutely impossible. I believe that it is essential to encourage companies, give them resources and space for training and development, to network and share good examples with each other, and to show that they deliver quality in this area in society. When it comes to e-mail and social media, I notice in the media, the books and the newspapers that there is a huge pressure on people about what they are allowed to do or not to do in their spare time. If you haven't had an in-depth conversation with your partner in the past week, according to the booklets, you're in a bad way. The pressure from the media on how to behave is very great. My rule is next. Try to be deconnected for at least a few hours in the evening and on the weekend. This means, and in conjunction with it, that one is so involved in a particular activity that one is in no way engaged in the work, but in no way. Completely capable of letting go. That means also the smartphone and the emails can let go. The use of smartphone and e-mail in itself, outside working hours, evenings and weekends, in my opinion is not the final criterion, but the extent to which people really manage to deconnect completely and thus create quality time outside working hours.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-23-54-commissie-ic669x.u26	You say that now to the worst group you can imagine.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-23-54-commissie-ic669x.u27	I have two final comments to make. I'm not just saying this as a politician. I also have a professional history in employment integration. Mr Godderis, you say that a new job requires energy and that we should be careful with that. That is absolutely true for people with burn-out, but I sometimes feel that we are overprotective and therefore restricting people's possibilities. I agree with Mrs De Coninck. Sometimes we need to have a little more confidence, trust that a win-win situation can arise. There is absolutely no obligation to do so. There is absolutely no doubt that the necessary safety must be built in. I agree; in any case, we are sometimes overprotective both in the medical field and in the context of work. Another final remark: the solution does not exist. Sometimes it bothers me that all the solutions that are offered are fired because they do not always apply to everyone. I had a bit of that feeling with your opinion piece back then. Of course prevention remains very important. Of course we have to look at the causes, but if we assume that we do not use a solution, because it does not apply to everyone and yet brings with it some risk derivatives, then nothing will happen. That's how politics works. In this respect, politics is not an academic branch. I think we have a fucking duty to implement any policy measure that can help a little.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-23-54-commissie-ic669x.u28	You know the media better than I do. This means that they often also extract elements from a full interview. You are the victim of this and sometimes we are the academics or experts. I do not mind, as long as we understand each other well and have a good dialogue. It's not about being right or being right, it's about how we can handle it. I have quoted several times what is the reason for this. It is effectively possible that the employee himself comes to the conclusion that this job really does not fit his interests and competences anymore and that he has evolved into something completely different. I fully agree with you that we must do everything we can to guide that employee to another job. I think it is a good idea that climbing that mountain should be done in steps, but there are a lot of people who are very keen to do their job and still motivated, but for whom that knot is at work and therefore needs to be addressed, both for the employee and for the protection of colleagues. As you rightly point out, there is no such thing as a solution. I can fully confirm that. Different patterns are seen, both at work and in the individual. Sometimes it goes to the left and sometimes to the right. I think that we should, above all, create a framework here. I have noted here that safety is very important. It's about people who are having second thoughts. How can we solve that? By creating security and clarity.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-23-54-commissie-ic669x.u29	Who else wants to respond? Or can we end this interesting hearing with this? I would like to thank the speakers for this second hearing on burn-out. There will be an integral report and we will see with the colleagues of the committee what we can do with it.
