ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic661x.u1	Minister, welcome to our committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic661x.u2	Minister, the coalition agreement states that there will be a clear legal framework for the patrimonial rights and obligations of legal and factual cohabitants. This has also been announced in several policy papers in recent years. I would simply like to ask you today what the concrete impact of this announced reform will be, and what the current state of affairs is.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic661x.u3	Mrs Lahaye-Battheu, a working group has been set up in this area. That working group decided to deal first with the reform of inheritance law, then with matrimonial property law, and then with cohabitation property law. The reform of inheritance law was submitted to the Chamber by legislative proposal at the end of 2016 and will be dealt with in the Chambers Committee for Justice as of next week or the week after. Discussions on the reform of matrimonial property law are almost complete. Afterwards, discussions will be held on the reform of the legal and factual cohabitation. The intention is to submit concrete texts to the Chamber on the reform of cohabitation property law in the autumn of 2017. Although the reform of cohabitation property law is the last part of the working party's work, the issue of property law for legal and factual cohabitation has already been raised in several meetings of the working group. A possible policy rush that often comes back is the limitation of legal cohabitation to affective relationships, provided that a transitional arrangement is in place. It also examines whether and to what extent a more extensive protection should be registered in the law for both legal and factual cohabitation. These policy quests are also explained in my second judicial plan "The jump to law for tomorrow, border number 115."
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic661x.u4	Thank you, Minister, for this state of affairs. I look forward to the debate at the end of this year.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic661x.u5	Mr President, Minister, at the end of 2016, I asked you a question about the employment of detainees. That question was part of a visit by a number of MEPs to the prison in Ittre. That visit was focused on the theme of the recidivism. During the visit we were told by the detainees that a lack of own resources in the release often increases the risk of a recurrence. You replied to my question that you would allow the administration to analyse the desirability and feasibility of taking an initiative with regard to the management of inmates' funds. Is that analysis done by now? If so, what are the results?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic661x.u6	Mr President, Mrs Lahaye-Battheu, the penitentiary administration has indeed carried out an analysis of the desirability and feasibility of a savings scheme. It is clear from this that in the past, on the basis of Article 30b of the Code of Criminal Procedure, there was a system whereby convicted persons for whom the work was compulsory deposited money in a reserve fund. The implementing decision subsequently stipulated that six tenths of the proceeds of prison work were paid into a reserve fund. Half of those six tenths were made available to the prisoner at his release, the other half could be spent freely. With the introduction of the basic law of 12 January 2005, this legal basis was deleted. The 2005 law was based, among other things, on the principles of accountability and standardisation. An earlier patriarchal obligation to save was therefore no longer consistent with the letter and spirit of the law. The European minimum rules on prisons also clearly state in recommendations 26.1 and 26.12 that it is the free choice of the prisoner to work. Other arguments for deciding that a saving obligation is not appropriate are the limited employment opportunities which could only be achieved by some of the detainees, as well as the low level of remuneration for prison employment which accounts for at least a substantial part of the total amount of expenditure incurred by the detainees in order to alleviate prison life, including the financing of needs related to, inter alia, their physical and environmental hygiene. Of course, it remains an added value to provide savings for prisoners in order to release them. I therefore agree with the administration's proposal to focus on responding to the detainees in the context of the detention plan and the reclassification plan, as well as the provision of savings formulas, training in budget management, etc., which can be part of detention and parole planning.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic661x.u7	Mr President, Minister, during the Wake-up ATV programme on Sunday, Flemish Minister Liesbeth Homans said he did not want to recognise mosques for the time being. She says she's not getting enough information from the federal government about the operation of the prayer houses. "I don't want to acknowledge it if I don't have enough information. I don't compromise when it comes to safety," she said. What information have you already forwarded to the Flemish Minister for the Interior in the various recognition files? Do you think the federal government did what she had to do with it? What else will you do to get out of this impasse?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic661x.u8	The cooperation agreement of 2 July 2008 on the recognition of worship services does not specify the opinion to be delivered by the Minister of Justice on a proposal from his service on the recognition of local communities of faith. In practice, that service obtains relevant information from the Security of the State and requests a budget agreement. On 23 December 2016, in compliance with this cooperation agreement, I delivered positive advice to Minister Homans on the recognition of twenty Islamic faith communities. On 17 January 2017, I informed Minister Homans in a letter that the Security of the State was always prepared to present Minister Homans' dossier to the investigations carried out on a case-by-file basis. Such a meeting between the Homans Cabinet and the Security of the State took place on 7 February, after the Security of the State had previously sat together with the Homans Cabinet on the recognition of mosques at the end of December 2016. Next, on 13 February 2017, I delivered the State Security Files on each of the twenty mosques to Minister Homans. Finally, a third meeting between the Security of the State and the Homans cabinet was scheduled on 19 April, this time also in the presence of my cabinet. The Homans cabinet cancelled that meeting at the last minute. On 2 May, in a letter to Minister Homans, I called for the planned but cancelled meeting with the State's Security to continue in the near future to discuss the twenty mosques again. In response to that letter, there was a contact between the two policy cells and a new consultation date was set.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic661x.u9	I thank the Minister for his reply. We'll see what comes out of that meeting.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic661x.u10	Mr President, Minister, I would like to ask you about the functioning of the geolocation system in prisons. Each guard, in some prisons, holds this system, which, when he presses a button, allows his colleagues to locate him and help him if necessary inside the prison. However, this system appears to be experiencing defections within Ittre Prison. A first incident occurred in early April and a new incident occurred on 27 April, when a guard was caught by several detainees. When the guard wanted to warn his colleagues by pressing the button of his eBox, it would appear that the system did not work. Minister, can you give me a debriefing of the last incident at the prison on April 27th? Can you give me more details on the source of the problem? Are regular tests carried out in each prison to ensure that the system is 100% operational throughout the prison? Have there been problems similar to those observed in prison in other prisons? Has training on the use of this eBox been planned or is it planned for the various custodians?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic661x.u11	Mr President, Mr Crusnière, according to the information provided by my services, the incident in Ittre would be linked to an error in handling the tool. This incident would therefore not undermine the reliability of the system, which appears to be an improvement in communication within prisons. Regular tests are planned. Generally, when a malfunction is reported, the firm that installed the tool is contacted to resolve the problem. The fact that problems arise should not be denied, but they are solved as and when they occur. It is true that problems have been observed elsewhere, but I repeat that these technical problems are difficult to avoid with computer equipment. Every effort is made to resolve them as quickly as possible when they appear.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic661x.u12	Minister, thank you for your answer. I also had contacts with the unions in Ittre Prison. The latter are not convinced that this problem is due to an error in handling. They also draw attention to the problem of network and location within the prison. I am well aware that this type of problem is inevitable when launching a system with computer hardware. However, this is an important subject and one cannot play with the security of the guards. I hope that every effort will be made to resolve the problems as quickly as possible, especially since they have already taken place in other prisons. As you said this would be a manipulation problem, it is necessary for training to be organised. If the problem is due to mishandling, it may be that the agents did not have the opportunity to train. Finally, I would like to point out that it would be more appropriate, in part, to solve these security problems of the guards, despite all these systems of location and emergency buttons, to move in pairs in the prison.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic661x.u13	Mr President, Minister, a spokesperson of the National Institute of Criminalism and Criminology recently condemned the lack of integrated statistics in the field of justice. The reason was the lack of figures on the fight against fraud and tax avoidance. You yourself responded that when you took office, you had to find that there were many missing figures on which you wanted to base your policy. As a cause, you referred to weak computerisation and too little ambition in the past to allow policy to start from the figures. You put forward a national chain-oriented data model. Measuring is knowing, it is now a widely heard boltade. However, it is difficult to overestimate the relevance of figures and their analysis. It goes without saying that such an exercise takes time and a great deal of effort. With these words, the publication Justice started in numbers, edition 2012, immediately the last edition to be found on the website of the FPS Justice. For 2013 you will only find data on the website, without much explanation. For 2014 there is only a chart of the budget and for the following years there is nothing. With the publication Justice in figures, the reader received an overview of the budget, the number of staff involved and the activities of the Justice Department on the basis of a whole series of figures. In addition to the public prosecutor's office and the offices of the seat, the prisons and the Justice Houses were also discussed. Mr Minister, first of all, why was the publication of Justice not continued in figures? Secondly, are the figures contained in this publication still being kept up to date? If so, where can these data be consulted? If not, what do you base your policy on? Thirdly, how does your great ambition concretely reflect the fact that the policy is based on figures? In what way does your ambition differ from what your predecessors claim to have a small ambition?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic661x.u14	Mr President, Mrs Lambrecht, the publication Justice in figures was compiled and published by the Communication Service of the FPS until 2013. The president of the FPS confirmed to me that after that date it was no longer possible for the Communication Department to publish this publication. In the meantime, a new statistical information management unit was set up within the President's services. This cell has so far managed to pool figures up to 2015. The figures she collects come from various sources. Within Justice, each entity has its own system. The various methodologies and counting rules should be aligned. It is therefore the ambition to continue the vulgarisation of the key figures. A new publication should be published shortly. Currently, the figures for 2016 are not yet available. In the future, however, the services concerned hope to find a new publication rhythm. My ambition with regard to the production of legal statistics is, of course, closely linked to the IT projects at Justice. The further roll-out of MACH in the correctional prisons and courts and the catching-up movement at the Central Criminal Register service, necessary to deliver the services to the cities and municipalities after the abolition of local criminal records, are now a priority and will, in the long term, bring great added value to the quality of crime statistics. They will therefore allow for a better rate-based policy.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic661x.u15	Mr Minister, according to information published in the press, you would be open to a debate on the establishment in Belgium of a system comparable to the system of application in the Netherlands for the payment of allowances in the event of flights in shops. At our neighbours, the Afrekenen device puts winkeldieven is based on the obligation for the perpetrator of a theft to compensate the merchant for the damage suffered in the amount of 181 euros. In order to receive this compensation, the victim must lodge a complaint with the police and, once the report has been drawn up, he or she may communicate the PV number to a foundation responsible for cashing the amount and returning it to the beneficiary. Launched in 2003, this measure appears to be bearing fruit, with 75 per cent of complaints being fully compensated. When asked in the media, you said: "The immediate friendly settlement is already current in some prosecutors' offices and is one of the avenues we are looking at. There are others, related to the immediate appearance and the amicable settlement. I learned from the press that UNIZO wanted to follow the example of the Netherlands. In any event, I believe that criminal law should continue to apply to serious cases. We have contacted UNIZO to know their proposals and to weigh their advantages and disadvantages. We will see what follow-up will be reserved for them." So, Minister, I would like to ask you the following questions. Can you explain your position with respect to this device? What are the advantages and disadvantages that have already been identified by your services? What timetable for consultations has been laid down in this dossier? Are you going to consult other sectoral representations and, if so, which ones? What other avenues are envisaged to better combat theft in shops, which now represent between 900 million and 1 billion euros per year of lost profits for Belgian traders? What about, for example, the Retail Information Network, a platform for the exchange of information between authorities and traders, proposed by the Comeos Trade and Services Federation?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic661x.u16	Mr President, honourable Member, the Dutch scheme Afrekenen met winkeldieven is a way of demanding redress by civil action for the indirect damage suffered by the trader when handling a theft at his place of business. In Belgium, too, theft in shops is both a punishable act and a harmful act. Under article 1382 of the Civil Code, compensation for damage resulting from misconduct may be brought against the perpetrator. Such reparation is independent of criminal prosecution by the courts. There are already forms of treatment of damage via a standard form, for example, compared to damage caused by road accidents. In addition, Belgium also knows the figure of the transaction. Article 2044 of the Civil Code specifies that the transaction is a contract by which the parties complete a dispute arising or preventing an unborn dispute, and that the dispute must be written in writing. I've read about UNIZO's proposal. In my view, such a system could also be introduced in Belgium without having to make legislative changes. However, if necessary, it seems to me appropriate that a protocol be concluded with the Public Prosecutor's Office which, on the one hand, would contain the agreement and, on the other hand, would clarify in a transparent manner how it should be applied. It is indeed important – and certainly in the case of repeat offenders – that criminal complaint and prosecution remain possible, even after the settlement of civil interests and the compensation of direct damages. The fight against minor theft in businesses is also one of my colleague Borsus's measures in the Federal Plan for SMEs. This plan provides for this struggle either through an extension of the initiatives that allow the authors to be brought before immediate chambers of appearance, evening by the systematic proposal of a transaction to the offenders. I am fully prepared to submit any proposals for consideration by the College of Attorneys General.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic661x.u17	Minister, thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic661x.u18	Question No 18202 by Mrs Jadin will be put to the Committee on Infrastructure.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic661x.u19	Mr President, Minister, the press has recently echoed the future obligation of the NSAs to reveal the source of their funding. From football clubs to cultural activity centres for seniors to places of worship, all associations will be required to indicate, in their annual accounts, the identity of their funders and the amounts thus collected. Of course, the ASBLs must already deposit their annual accounts at the Registry of the Commercial Court, but this will strengthen the effort of transparency and good governance in the voluntary sector, including in the context of the fight against terrorism and big banditry. Minister, my questions will be as follows. Can you tell us the exact contours of this provision? What is the planned agenda for the implementation of this new obligation for the NSAs? Finally, what sanctions would be adopted for non-compliance with this new regulation?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic661x.u20	Mr Calomne, article 17 of the Act of 27 June 1921 relating to non-profit organisations and others allows me to review the provisions relating to the annual accounts of non-profit organisations. Briefly, the NSAs should create a list in which they will have to indicate the origin and amount of each donation from a single donor that exceeds a certain limit. For the time being, the proposed limit is EUR 40,000, but discussions with the Accounting Standards Commission and the sector will clarify the matter. The administrative burden for NSOs will remain limited because they already have this information. The purpose of the measure is to facilitate public services' access to this information. There will be no specific sanction. The general rule that directors are responsible if the association fails to comply with its legal obligations remains of course valid.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic661x.u21	Thank you for your answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic661x.u22	Minister, we know the image of people begging while they have children with them. Often it is about young mothers, who do not let the children beg themselves, but take them away, in order to create compassion among the passers-by and thus easier to succeed in their goal. Minister, if I am well informed, the parent who brings his or her child to beg is not punishable. However, it is punishable if the parent has the child begging himself or if parents make their children available to a beggar. In that case, the penal law does indeed apply. In our Criminal Code, two similar provisions apply to them, namely Article 433ter of the Criminal Code on the exploitation of begging and Article 433quinquies on trafficking in human beings for the exploitation of begging. There is apparently in the case-law "this is also cited in the doctrine of law "possible merger over the different provisions." This apparently means that a number of cities and municipalities want to tackle the problem through the police regulations. Is it true, Minister, that child begging is only punishable when the children are effectively begging themselves? So is it true that parents can take their child with them in begging, with all the consequences? Would a legislative initiative to also criminalise that people have their child with them while begging beg be a good thing? If so, are you planning such an initiative, possibly in the context of the revision of the substantive criminal code? Are you planning another initiative, in particular a directive on criminal law policy, to clarify this, in particular with regard to the application of both articles?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic661x.u23	Mrs Van Cauter, the exploitation of begging is a crime under Article 433ter of the Criminal Code. The article applies in particular to the situation in which the parent encourages the child to beg and in which the parent makes the child available to a third party to beg. In its judgment of 26 May 2010, the Brussels Court of Appeal ruled that that provision does not apply in the situation in which the parent begs his child in the poor, in so far as the child does not participate in the activity. Article 433quinquies of the Criminal Code concerns trafficking in human beings for the purpose of exploiting begging. Each crime has its own constituent elements, which must be fulfilled. This does not alter the fact that one and the same behavior may sometimes result in multiple crimes, as may be the case for begging. As far as criminal policy on begging is concerned, there are several directives of the College of Attorneys General, which clearly and comprehensively regulate the problem. Those directives also address the two articles of the Criminal Code, which you mentioned, in order to ensure a uniform approach and application in Belgium and to avoid arbitrary application. In addition, the Directives pay particular attention to minors. Addressing situations of begging by a minor or in particular with a minor is one of the priorities of criminal policy. The measures of criminal policy allow the magistrates of the prosecutors to better determine the situations in which prosecution should take place and on what legal basis. When I consider all these considerations, I do not think that there is an urgent need for a legislative initiative in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic661x.u24	Minister, I would be grateful if you could give me the guidelines.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic661x.u25	They're confidential.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic661x.u26	Mr President, Minister, we heard from the press that the Belgian list of foreign fighters apparently contained 22 minors, four of whom are still in Syria, one person returned to our country, five already tried to travel and the others are still in Belgium but radicalized and have plans to go to Syria. In addition, 35 minors would be resident in Syria or other areas of conflict in the Middle East. Because of their age, the federal prosecutor can't handle their files himself. Judicial files on minors are dealt with by local prosecutors and only when there are adults involved in the case can the federal prosecutor handle the case. In this context, you would have stated that minors could be tried as adults in serious cases and that the arrondissementan terrorist magistrate could share information channels with the federal prosecutor. That is undoubtedly correct, but I think it would be more efficient, especially when it comes to terrorist crimes, if the federal prosecutor could look directly at those files. I am well aware that under the sixth state reform, youth protection law has largely become a competence of the Communities and that the Communities can cooperate on investigative policy guidelines, but the federal government still has jurisdiction over procedural rules such as the organisation, territorial jurisdiction and the administration of justice for juvenile courts. Civil and criminal rules also remain a federal competence. Mr Minister, what is the obstacle to the federal prosecutor's office also dealing with minors' files? What action does it take if necessary to make the federal prosecutor responsible for these files? Do you intend to do that?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic661x.u27	Mr President, Mrs Van Cauter, under the Youth Protection Act of 8 April 1965, minors who have committed a crime are brought before the Juvenile Court and before the Juvenile Chambers of Appeal. Members of the public prosecutor's office must have received specialised training at the Institute for Judicial Training in accordance with the Code of Civil Procedure. They should also be specifically designated. The Youth Protection Act does not have a judicial finality but is aimed at the protection, protection and education of the minor and therefore departs from the rules of criminal proceedings. Minors suspected of being involved in terrorist acts are therefore brought to the court of appeal by the arrondissementan prosecutors or by the prosecutors-general before the juvenile court or the juvenile chambers. On 21 September 2016, during his public hearing before the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry into the terrorist attacks, the Federal Prosecutor stated that he is not in favour of adapting the jurisdiction of the Federal Public Prosecutor in the area of youth. I'm following the federal attorney's opinion, which he's still holding on to today. After all, the federal court is involved in the terrorist investigations into minors. Pursuant to Article 144s of the Civil Code, the federal court is responsible for coordinating the conduct of criminal proceedings in consultation with the competent prosecutors of the King, even if the investigation concerns several minors under the jurisdiction of several local prosecutors. In federal files where, during the course of the judicial investigation, elements appear at the expense of one or more minors, the federal prosecutor will, in the execution of a position of the College of Attorneys General and the federal prosecutor, request the investigative judge already engaged to initiate a judicial investigation into those minors, on the basis of Article 49 of the Youth Protection Act. In addition, in consultation with the competent youth prosecutors, the federal prosecutor will prepare the final written action for the minor and will represent the public prosecutor in the settlement of the proceedings concerning this minor in the cabinet of the investigating judge. As regards the hand-out, Article 57a of the Youth Protection Act allows the juvenile court to dismiss minors from 16 years of age for whom it considers a measure of detention, custody or education inappropriate, and who have committed a terrorist offence, in order to have them prosecuted before a special chamber within the Juvenile Court, which applies the common criminal law and the common criminal procedure. This may be done only if the minor concerned has already been the subject of one or more measures or of a remedial offer made by the juvenile court. Since the sixth state reform, the Communities have been responsible for laying down the rules on handouts.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic661x.u28	Minister, when I read the press about this, I had the impression that the federal prosecutor had changed his mind. Maybe I didn't read the article properly enough, or his words weren't properly represented. I read in the press a strong warning from the federal prosecutor when he talks about the coordination problems that arise when minors are involved in terrorist crime files. I understand that minors require a specific approach. We are therefore talking about youth protection law and not youth sanctions law, precisely because of the non-criminal finality of this matter. So far, I can follow you, but I think we will have to follow closely. You know that coordinating and transferring information is not always obvious. If minors are involved in terrorist offences, and this can be about very serious facts with potentially very serious consequences, then I believe that a unit of inquiry is appropriate. By the way, one of the reasons why the federal court was set up at the time was precisely to ensure proper coordination and proper conduct of the investigation in cases involving international and arrondissement-based involvement. Thank you in advance for following up on this issue. You yourself rightly asked how we should deal with a minor who is or will be prosecuted for terrorist offences. Do we treat the person concerned as a victim to be protected or as a person who has committed a crime described as a crime? Especially when it comes to terrorism, that is a difficult balance. I would therefore ask you once again to keep a close eye on the matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic661x.u29	Minister, recently we read in the press that in the margins of online computer games an alternative gambling circuit has developed in which Belgian teenagers lose their pocket money without any control or regulation. It's about the so-called skin gambling. Players buy skins, which are color patterns that make the weapons used in the video game more striking, which they can then bet as chips on gambling sites to gamble with. The most expensive skins cost thousands of euros, the cheapest a few euro cents. Through various ways it is possible to deposit the money, trade in skins, gamble and get your money back into your account. According to the Gaming Act, the exploitation of gambling and gaming facilities in Belgium is prohibited, unless it is authorised. In the past, gambling on the Internet was completely forbidden. Since 2011, companies that have been licensed by the Gaming Commission have been allowed to exploit gambling on the Internet. These games of chance, like all others, are prohibited for minors. A representative of the Gaming Commission noted that the focus on online gambling within the Gaming Commission is inversely proportional to their strong growth. Moreover, a working group within the Gaming Commission dedicated to the games of chance via the Internet would have been shut down already in 2015 due to lack of capacity. I have a few questions about this. Do you have any knowledge of the phenomenon of skin gambling? Do the providers of such games of chance have a licence from the Gaming Commission? Is it true that the working group within the Gaming Commission dedicated to Internet gambling has ceased its activities for lack of people and resources? What measures will you take against Internet gambling by minors?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic661x.u30	Mr President, Mrs Lambrecht, the phenomenon of skin gambling is well known to the Gambling Commission. The providers of such games of chance do not have a licence. Indeed, the Working Party on Internet Gambling is no longer organised by the Gaming Commission. One of the reasons was a lack of competence in this field, which required the use of experts from the sector itself, which created a problem of conflict of interest. However, tackling online gambling is a priority in the fight against gambling addiction. I attach great importance to effective regulation of the gambling market and to the protection of minors. Political discussions are currently under way on concrete measures to be taken in the event of legislative change and royal decisions. The Gaming Commission is closely involved in this work. On my question, the Gaming Commission has focused on the organisation of a closing identification of gamblers on the Internet. The contributions of the gambling sector are paid into an organic fund. In 2016, the Gaming Commission was allowed to transfer part of the operating costs budget to the staff budget, but since the 2016 staff plan was submitted only at the end of 2016, this did not lead to implementation. The dossier is now being reviewed in the light of the 2017 budget. I would particularly like to focus on strengthening the control of online gambling, so as to ensure effective regulation of markets, including the increasingly important online market, and better protection of minors, especially those who are very sensitive to the new media.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic661x.u31	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your reply.
