ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-commissie-ic791x.u1	In the meantime, ladies and gentlemen, I hope that everyone will have received the texts of the four interviews that have been tabled. In a first round, we shall give the floor to the groups that have tabled an interview. The various persons who have signed the interplay have informed us who will take the floor. Then, in a second round, I'll give the other members the chance. All the groups will be able to speak. The first inquiry is that of the PS group. Mrs Fernandez Fernandez, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-commissie-ic791x.u2	Mr President, Mr Franken, the information that accompanied our awakening this morning is your apology to the Prime Minister. But what you have not yet done at this late hour of the day is to apologize to the men you have sent to torture! And that, it seems to us, was the minimum. Mr Franken, we have been denouncing for months the indignity of your policy, the inhumanity of the answers you give and, today, we learn that you also seem to be a fan of lies. To comply with the President's request, I will proceed directly to my questions. Why, then, this morning, did you apologize to the Prime Minister? Is it for lying to him, like you lied to the government, to parliament, to all the Belgians? When you gave your interview yesterday at the end of the plenary, yes or no, were expulsions planned to Sudan? Did you, yes or no, cancel them after giving this interview? These evictions are therefore suspended until the results of the investigation. Who asked for this investigation? Who's going to lead her? What are the guarantees related to the information we will obtain and which will result? Did you, yes or no, involve the Office of the High Commissioner for Refugees in repatriations to the Sudan? According to information from a High Commissioner this morning, it would seem that no, and that is contrary to what you have told us. With my colleagues, I look forward to hearing your answers!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-commissie-ic791x.u3	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, Minister, I am trying to look objectively at the situation. A number of newspaper articles have been published on abuse and torture of people who have been returned to Sudan on the basis of a decision by the Belgian government. On the basis of these articles, Prime Minister Michel said that an investigation would follow, which was a correct response, and that repatriations would be suspended until the end of January. That's an acceptable decision. However, Secretary of State Francken responded that he decided on this: "Who says the newspapers are writing the truth? Who says that the stories contained therein are true or not?" In addition, Secretary of State Francken says that no repatriations were planned during the month of January. So the Prime Minister didn't really have to decide on that. He also said he didn't need CD&V and Open Vld to decide. Mr Secretary of State, it was very clear that you would decide, no one else and no repatriations were planned. Mr Smeyers also repeated this so explicitly in Parliament yesterday, a few times. It has also said this with great certainty. I'm guessing she got her information from you. Now it appears that repatriations were still planned. You responded that you didn't know, which, of course, could be. It is also difficult for us to check whether or not you knew. However, you did cancel them. You had understood that everyone wanted no repatriations in January and so you have consistently cancelled them. However, you have also decided to continue to say to the outside world that no repatriations were planned in January. Why? Because otherwise there might be a suction effect. Quite specifically, Mr Secretary of State, did you lie to the Prime Minister, to Parliament, to your colleague, Sarah Smeyers? Is it your intention to continue with the policy pursued? However, this policy is counterproductive because you do not work carefully. For the sake of clarity, expulsions must be carried out, but if one does so with a regime capable of committing genocides and torturing people, then it must be done incredibly carefully. You have now sent back Sudanese people, who have experienced things there, which give them fucking good reasons to apply for asylum here. Your policy is therefore counterproductive because you do not work carefully. You give them reasons for applying for asylum in Belgium afterwards. What bothers me most is the moral component. There is a great deal of criticism about your carelessness, but you say that you will just continue. You need to get your grades, meet your goals. That's when people actually become objects. They are dehumanized. I'm sorry. You need to be careful with that. When people start to reason like that, the end is lost. That is a very serious concern. I can say that people must be deported, but do so in a careful manner in which you respect human rights. I know that the question is whether the facts are true. We may have doubts about everything, but if we know the reputation of Sudan, then the chances are much greater that the facts are true than they are not true. Finally, I am looking at you, Minister Jambon. An investigation will take place now. How do you see that? How's that gonna work out? Who will be involved and to what extent can it be conducted objectively? After all, it will be difficult enough to organise it properly and to find out the truth. What I particularly want to know, Mr Secretary of State, is why you lied.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-commissie-ic791x.u4	Mr Secretary of State, in the electronic press, we can read today the story of Mohammad, who was expelled when he applied for asylum. I'm talking about him because working with a dictatorship means that a person who has applied for asylum and who has learned that the Sudanese reconnaissance team is working with your services has withdrawn his application for asylum. This Mohammad, today, he's in Khartoum. Mr. Secretary of State, you're used to lying to us. A few weeks ago, by voting the law that gives asylum seekers access to electronic devices, you said that 60 to 70 per cent of migrants were lying. That was not true, you acknowledged it in plenary session. This majority still passed this iniquitous law. Today, in front of this majority, you are lying! Ladies and gentlemen of the majority, will you still tolerate it? You are, through this Parliament, the guarantors of the fundamental rights of all Belgians. Secretary of State, this time you have not only lied to Parliament, you have lied to the Head of Government, to your Prime Minister! My question is simple. Did you lie to Parliament? Did you lie to the Prime Minister? Through all of us, have you lied to all the Belgians?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-commissie-ic791x.u5	Secretary of State, we would like to know where the truth is today. What day are you telling the truth? What day are you lying? Who are you telling the truth to? Who are you lying to? Yesterday afternoon, the Prime Minister promised the House that there would be no more repatriations. After that sentence, you left the Chamber and gave an interview in which you described the Prime Minister's remarks as absurd. This is the first time that I have seen a Secretary of State leave the plenary assembly of the House and give a television interview to frame his Prime Minister and call his remarks absurd. The opposition was moved to see the N-VA group not applaud the Prime Minister's proposal, to see you describe his words as absurd. She tabled a motion to see if the Prime Minister's proposal was still valid. The majority preferred to table their own motion to reassure us. This morning, you must have apologized, it seems, to the Prime Minister. I would like you to confirm that because it was the Prime Minister who spoke on this subject. I would like you to reiterate your apology to the Prime Minister. Then, when you said so far that there would be no repatriation to the Sudan anyway, we learned that in reality there would be at least one repatriation to the Sudan planned this month, perhaps more. Again, yesterday, the Prime Minister told Parliament the opposite. Today, we learn that there will be a repatriation. Who did you lie to, Secretary of State? To the Prime Minister? Only in the press? It's important. You know, the last time a minister lied to the Prime Minister, she had to leave the government. So it's important to know who you lied to. What respect do you still have for institutions today, for your own government and for the Prime Minister? Mr. Secretary of State, there is another subject on which you have not told the truth. You said that, from the outset, these repatriations were with the United Nations. That's absolutely not true! That's completely incorrect. Anyone who follows these questions knows that neither IOM nor UNHCR is competent in cases of forced repatriation and that, therefore, these persons have been returned without any protective arrangements, without any control, without any supervision, without any capacity to verify what was going to happen there. This is a great deal, when we know all the warnings that have been sent to you by international organisations, by NGOs, by parliament. Realizing that you sent these people away without the slightest ability to control and verify that nothing would happen to them, while lying about the fact that these controls existed well, I think it's a big deal. I would therefore like to have clarity on this last point.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-commissie-ic791x.u6	The interviews which have been submitted have been dealt with in this way. However, there is also an additional question from Mr De Vriendt, whom I shall give the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-commissie-ic791x.u7	Mr President, Secretary of State, Minister, Mr Francken, you have a lot of explaining to do. Colleagues, what did we know? We already knew that the current government is bringing agents from a Sudanese war criminal here, namely the agents of al-Bashir. They are present at the talks and decide with us which Sudanese will or will not be returned. Mr Francken, you are also in the picture with a war criminal, with a fixer of the regime. In the meantime, ladies and gentlemen, we also know that the people who have been sent back have been tortured in Sudan. The testimonies are clear and verified. That is what we feared and for which we have warned. Colleagues, we already knew that. Actually, that's a reason for a major political incident. It is proof of a complete derailment of this asylum policy. Two lies turned up today in a few hours. First lie. Mr Francken has always said that the return from the first day has been accompanied by the UN. Today, the spokesmen of the UN Refugee Organisation and of the International Organisation for Migration declare that this information is wrong and that they are not involved. That's the first lie. Second lie. You state that there is no problem until the end of January 2018 because no repatriation of Sudanese people is planned anymore. What news has appeared in the course of the day? That there are still plans. You didn't appear for the VTM cameras for other cameras you didn't say that very clearly. That's not all. You also made Prime Minister Michel say that in plenary. You did not say anything yesterday, but Prime Minister Michel said to Parliament during the plenary session that there are no longer any plans for repatriation until the end of January 2018, which is a false statement. Mr Secretary of State, I assume he has that information from you. So you made him say wrong business. I do not assume that Prime Minister Michel knew very well that what he said was wrong. I assume he's just blindly relied on you. You said in front of the camera that Prime Minister Michel's statements were absurd. We have to do it. [[.]] A secretary of state in a government that bits away from an interview and says, "I have no lessons from CD&V and Open Vld. I don't need them. My Prime Minister's statements are absurd." Another reason for a major political incident. What is more, after your lie that no repatriations were planned, you say: "I didn't know that, but from the moment I was informed that there were possible repatriations, I didn't say that. I kept lying to avoid creating a suction effect." You explained that to members of the press. Quite illogical, by the way, because if you really want there to be no suction effect, you should say in the press that there are still return flights, that repatriations are planned, that the Sudanese should not come to Belgium because they are still being returned. You were in such a tight spot that you have fallen back on something that always sounds good: with this government we are not going to create a suction effect. In the meantime, I hope you realise that your reasoning is completely illogical. Mr Francken, you are in tight shoes. This government is in tight shoes. The majority parties Open Vld and CD&V that would let this pass today, are very difficult to explain to the Belgians that they leave a member of the government who lies straight ahead, twice at twelve o'clock time. Mr. Francken, you didn't do your job. You're lying about that. You have sent back Sudanese people without having examined whether or not they are in danger. You brought agents from al-Bashir here to organize that return. In order to cover that up, you lied twice about public opinion. I demand an explanation for that. We're not gonna let this go blue.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-commissie-ic791x.u8	Which of the other groups would like to take the floor?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-commissie-ic791x.u9	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to take the floor. I won't make any big statements or make any accusations until I hear you. I think you guys should tell us exactly how things went. I shall therefore confine myself to a number of questions. Mr Secretary of State, firstly, when were you informed that repatriations would continue in January? What time was that? You said at some point that there would be repatriations. When did you communicate that to the press? Or didn't you tell me as soon as you knew? Secondly, I come to the role of the United Nations and to the lack of clarity. At least this is what I'm reading. You have stated in several newspapers that the IOM has accompanied the repatriated persons. However, the IOM only guides people who return voluntarily. The UN spokesman says that they had no contacts, nor that there was any cooperation. You said that this cooperation was there. Can you tell me how this cooperation came about? Was it recorded in an agreement? What was agreed with the IOM? Or is this also due to a misunderstanding? Thirdly, yesterday, following a heated debate in Parliament, a motion was adopted on the basis of the Prime Minister's statements. We believe that these statements were quite justified. In that motion, the majority asked for the measures announced by the Prime Minister yesterday to be implemented and then to proceed to the order of the day. The measures mentioned by the Prime Minister are only logical and right. You can also read this in the report. The Prime Minister has announced three important points. Firstly, an independent and thorough investigation into the possible violation of human rights. Mr Secretary of State and Minister, I know that you have already had a discussion with the government on this matter today. And that's good. Can you explain to me what has already been decided on this matter? The investigation is coming, as we have asked. In the first instance, an independent investigation will be carried out into the events in order to determine whether human rights have been violated. Of course, everyone knows that in a country like Sudan people sometimes do not speak freely, but well, that investigation will take place. Who will be involved? Who's in charge of the investigation? I assume that NGOs will also be involved. If so, which one? What are the modalities of the investigation that we asked for yesterday? Secondly, repatriations will be suspended as long as the investigation is ongoing, as long as it is necessary. The Prime Minister explicitly did not set a timetable for this, and that is only logical, because this matter needs to be examined thoroughly. According to the Prime Minister, the necessary time must be devoted to this. Thirdly, the Prime Minister is covered by Article 3 of the ECHR, which stipulates that people should not be at risk of torture. That provision is sacred to him, and it must be so for us. It is almost Christmas, but also outside the Christmas period this principle must be sacred. That, of course, requires you to consider, Mr Secretary of State, whether the necessary caution is used to check on a case-by-case basis whether there is a violation of human rights. Does this also happen when deciding on people who have not applied for asylum or whose asylum application has been rejected and who have to return? There is a return policy, but this also means that Article 3 of the ECHR should always be reviewed. It is necessary to examine whether these people are at risk of being tortured. This should be examined on a case-by-case basis, taking into account the situation of those concerned. Account must also be taken of the region from which someone comes and whether there are risks. Do you think that, so far or not, errors of assessment have been made by the services? Are you prepared to change the procedure in that respect if this proves necessary? Should the investigation show that people returned were tortured, this means that the system is not waterproof and that you will have to adjust the procedures. In this sense, Parliament decided yesterday. The Prime Minister said that the principle of ensuring that people are not tortured is sacred. We must therefore ensure that this principle is applied effectively, and to this end we must exercise caution. No one can be sent back as long as it is not certain that he or she is not at risk of being tortured.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-commissie-ic791x.u10	Mr President, I would like to respond briefly on behalf of my group. First of all, I would like to make it clear that we are fully following the line indicated by the Prime Minister yesterday in plenary in response to a number of questions, which was confirmed by the government this morning. As has been said a number of times here, we must first carry out a thorough and independent investigation into the facts that emerged yesterday, in cooperation with the UN and Europe. Afterwards, the necessary conclusions should be drawn, with, of course, in the meantime a suspension of the expulsions, as the Prime Minister has pointed out in the last two days. Mrs Lanjri has already referred to the three measures, namely the setting up of an independent international investigation, the cessation of repatriation and Article 3 of the ECHR in this area, which I would like to emphasise must be regarded as sacred and super important. I hear a member of this committee say that the question arises as to whether the facts are true. Well, chances are the facts are true. I want to make it clear that an independent investigation must prove that these facts are true. Of course, caution is needed, but I do not think it is right to do probability calculations in this delicate matter. We want to get on paper what has emerged in the press and we must give the independent investigation a chance in the coming weeks, as soon as possible as far as we are concerned. There has been a lot of confusion in recent days and there is uncertainty. Tonight the Minister and the Secretary of State, both present, will be given the opportunity to clarify the whole story. We too will await their answers. Interplations have been tabled and we will listen with great attention to what Mr Jambon and Mr Francken have to say to the committee tonight.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-commissie-ic791x.u11	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, Mr. Secretary of State, hypocrisy has limits. When the majority of the Government decided to accept the expulsion of Sudanese nationals to their country of origin, the Government could not ignore what the jurisprudence of the Aliens Litigation Council had already determined last summer, namely that the expulsion of nationals to Khartoum was contrary to the European Convention on Human Rights, whether or not they had applied for asylum. Stop the hypocrisy of saying that if you do not ask for asylum, you are expelled from any condition because that is not true! The government knew that. And he should not bring in the shirks of the political police in Khartoum to contribute to the expulsion of persons who are under the regime of protection of the conventions that are applicable in our country. The majority, therefore, made this immoral choice knowingly. Today, the problem is political. Indeed, in order to justify an implausible statement made with regard to the Prime Minister, the Secretary of State who, in any other government, had already been dismissed for a long time, said that he had maintained a statement that there should be no air appeal because he would not want the Sudanese to be made to believe that they could still remain in Belgium. In other words, you are contrary, Mr Secretary of State, to the fundamental principle which the Prime Minister, in a final break, has wished to recall, namely the principle of respect for the European Convention on Human Rights, which states, in its Article 3, that when the conditions of return are likely to expose persons to a physical threat to their personal integrity, they are not expelled. So the problem is no longer whether or not you have conducted the right policy. You didn't lead the right policy. You have conducted your policy in disregard of fundamental rights. But the most implausible is that in order to defend yourself, you continue to pursue the policy that you claim to want to pursue. That is what is immoral and politically unbearable! The problem now is whether the majority can afford to endure this for a long time to come. Today, the Prime Minister seems to accept everything. And I wonder if there are still parties of the majority that have a bit of correction vis-à-vis our institutions to say that that is enough. I recall that Mrs. Galant was less fortunate than you might have been, Mr. Franken. She paid the price of her lie by forced resignation, but she may not have the arrogance that is permanently that of the N-VA in that majority.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-commissie-ic791x.u12	Has each group been able to say its word in the first round?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-commissie-ic791x.u13	Mr President, I would like to speak after hearing the Secretary of State. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-commissie-ic791x.u14	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, when I communicated on Wednesday I was not aware that flights were scheduled for mid-January. Afterwards, following the article in Het Laatste Nieuws, a consultation took place in my cabinet and I was informed by my administration. At that time, I decided to have it cancelled pending further investigation. Torture can never be tolerated. Torture can and must never be tolerated. The communication line that there were no flights scheduled, I stopped. Rumors almost always create a suction effect in migration files. I didn't want to send the wrong message that Sudanese people aren't being sent back and avoided...
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-commissie-ic791x.u15	Mr President, we understand that the Secretary of State is in a hurry, either by the holidays or by the embarrassment, but we would like to understand what he is saying. If he could talk a little less quickly...
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-commissie-ic791x.u16	I understand that translation cannot follow.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-commissie-ic791x.u17	I'll do it again. Ladies and gentlemen, Chers Collègues, when I communicated on Wednesday, I was not aware that there were flights scheduled in mid-January. Afterwards, following the article in Het Laatste Nieuws, a consultation took place in my cabinet and I was informed about it by my administration. At that time, I decided to have it cancelled pending further investigation. Torture can never be tolerated. Torture can and must never be tolerated. That communication line, that there were no flights scheduled, I stopped. Rumors almost always create a suction effect in migration files. I did not want to send the wrong signal that Sudanese people will not be returned and that we will not become the pit of the European bath. We take the situation seriously and want to pursue a policy accordingly. Migration is a sensitive and emotionally charged theme. I was too quick to respond to the Prime Minister and I apologize to him for that this morning. I have a good understanding and cooperation with our Prime Minister and will continue to be so. In the interests of everyone in this country, I will continue to work and do everything possible to avoid a second Calais in Brussels. I would like to remind you that similar rumours about the return to Sudan have emerged in other European countries, but they have proved to be unfounded. I would also like to point out that judgments of the Court of Appeal in Brussels state that if a foreigner wishes to invoke Article 3 of the ECHR, he has every opportunity to do so through the submission of an asylum application. Yesterday, the Court of Appeal in Liège also confirmed that the Sudanese people of Vottem have sufficient access to legal assistance and thus implicitly also to the asylum procedure. Questions have also been asked about the ERIN project. The European Re-integration Project is a project in which the IOM actively cooperates and is involved. It is true that the IOM mainly works on voluntary return, but for ERIN the IOM also provides guidance on forced return. We entered the ERIN project for Sudan. This document was signed on 13 October by Mr Roosemont, Director-General of the Department of Foreign Affairs. I will make it available to the President of the Chamber. It's about control. Those who have been repatriated are given the telephone number of the IOM. Up to now they are about ten people, of whom one is voluntary and nine are forced to call to be picked up at the airport. An information brochure is also provided stating that if something goes wrong at their arrival or happens that is not allowed or not normal, they must call that number of the IOM. There's an IOM agent on the scene. The IOM is an agency of the United Nations. That's how it goes. That document can be viewed. One person contacted by telephone and that was in the context of a reintegration request. One can get money for reintegration. The person in question wanted to start a case in Sudan after his return to get his life back on track. There are no stories known to ERIN's employees that anyone would have been tortured or treated harshly upon his arrival in Khartoum after the repatriation. As far as the infringement of Article 3 is concerned, a check is being carried out. We are in a rather unique situation. In all these years, we have never seen immigration policy come to so many people who do not want to apply for asylum. The 2015 asylum crisis was a crisis in which everyone applied for asylum. There were also people in the Maximilian Park. There was a lot of commotion at the time, but it was because those people could not apply for asylum then, because there was no room. We could only register a maximum number of people at the Foreign Affairs Office, but all those people wanted to apply for asylum. Now we find ourselves in a rather unique situation that these people do not want to apply for asylum. If there is a repatriation, there must therefore be a review of Article 3. Normally, this happens via the asylum application, but some of them do not apply for asylum. The review must be there, it is also in the law, and it is now done in a standardized manner by our Foreign Affairs Service, at the interviews. There have been a lot of meetings about that. It's happening the way it's supposed to. We are certainly responding to that. Minister Jambon will explain the decision of the nuclear cabinet.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-commissie-ic791x.u18	Ladies and gentlemen, we have indeed discussed Sudan at the heart of the government this morning. The government has instructed me to launch an independent investigation into the situation in Sudan in the very short term. The core of the government has also asked us to ask the Commissioner-General for Refugees and the Stateless. You know this is an independent body. So the government could not order it, but the government asked me to ask the Commissioner-General. If the Commissioner-General were to accept the mandate, it would also require the involvement of the United Nations and the European Commission or the agencies concerned. During the afternoon I received Mr Van den Bulck, the Commissioner-General, in my office and asked him the question. He has promised to start the investigation immediately, I assume that the man will still be celebrating his Christmas, in full independence. In that sense, I told him that he could always call on the government for additional information, but that we would not take any further steps in his direction so that the Commissioner-General could conduct the investigation in complete independence. We have asked him to speed up the investigation and not to leave it alone, but without a proper timing. On the basis of the findings of the investigation, return operations will be evaluated. I would also like to remind you that, as we confirmed this morning, the government operates within the international legal framework in its policy on asylum and migration. Deciding to go beyond the entire international legal framework would be the aberration of the day. So we want to operate within the entire international legal framework, also on the basis of Article 3 of the ECHR. Mr President, I have answered the questions that have come my way.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-commissie-ic791x.u19	Mr Minister, Mr Secretary of State, I shall return to the order in which I have just given the floor. First, the interpreters may reply, after which the Members who have tabled an oral question may take their turn and finally those who have not yet spoken, after which a second round may follow with members who wish to join.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-commissie-ic791x.u20	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, I have still not heard any excuses, any regrets, a minimum of empathy for the people you have sent back to torture. When we talk about Sudan, you talk about rumors. When you are told that it is a dictatorship, you question the fate that could be reserved for the people you have expelled. Your policy is inhuman. Your words and excuses, which I believe are false excuses, are unworthy. What's cold in the back is also the lightness with which you seem to handle this kind of case. You say that after the interview, after reading an article in the press, you held a meeting at your office, while it's been hours since we knew there were problems in Sudan. It's been hours since we knew that people were probably getting tortured there. Obviously, it did not seem to you important enough to mobilize and organize a meeting. At least you didn't measure up to what had happened. What I'm afraid is that you still haven't taken it. Mr Franken, I am not going to argue, but your policy is unworthy. You're unworthy! Today, we will all go home to eat turkey, small ovens and, during that time, people, whom your unworthy policy has expelled, may be being tortured and suffering. What's cold behind my back is that I'm afraid nothing will change, that this government, the majority here, will come home tonight, eat its turkey and its little ovens. Nothing will have changed. You will still be there, and the indignity that you make this country suffer through your policy will continue to rage in the coming weeks and months with the complicity of the Prime Minister, the government and all the members of that majority.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-commissie-ic791x.u21	Mr President, the Secretary of State says that he apologized to the Prime Minister and that he was too energetic. At the same time, he says that he has continued to lie in order to implement his consistent policy. So the Secretary of State says, "I kept lying." Without embarrassment. He does that simply to achieve his policy, in order to achieve his goals in his head. So he says, "I lied." I am so sorry, Mr Secretary of State, because policy must have a basis of trust. We need to know that our policy makers are telling the truth, that they are objective. Especially when one is working with a government that commits genocide, which tortures, one cannot afford to lie without embarrassment. We have made recommendations several times, including from the opposition, to work more carefully, but you are stubborn in that regard. Please learn to listen and work more carefully and stop lying. A second element. I also wanted to say it yesterday, but it is probably too technical for a plenary session. However, the Prime Minister also said so. There are a lot of Sudaneses who do not apply for asylum. They don't want to. How come they don't want to? Do you know why? Because these officials have said: you can apply for asylum here and you have one chance at two that you get residence papers, but if you don't get them, if you are repatriated, because you have applied for asylum here, you will be recognized as an opponent of the regime, as a political opponent. It is well known in Sudan that prisons are to be held and tortured in any case. That is one of the reasons why we have constantly asked for an interpreter to be included, so that we at least understand that they were threatened. Mr Secretary of State, if you take a picture with the interrogators first, do you understand that the Sudanese no longer have any confidence in applying for asylum? They don't dare anymore! That is the reality! By the way, one in two Sudanese people get asylum. I looked it up today. I have one more question for you. I've asked that question several times. You say that you are correctly applying Article 3 of the Human Rights Convention and are investigating whether there is a risk that someone will be tortured or abused. But, Mr Secretary of State, in how many cases has anyone ever been judged not to evict? I can't get an answer to that question. The fact that I do not get an answer to that leads me to suspect that zero times after examination one has considered that expulsion is too dangerous. Zero time! This raises the question of the quality of these studies. In addition, I have been told that African Sudanese have also been brought to Darfur. You know, however, that African Sudanese people who end up there are being tortured anyway. Anyway! How is it handled? Thirdly, and this has already been discussed here, people cannot be illegal; they exist. They may be people without papers, but they're still people. And what about the way they're talked about? Basically, they're outlaws, they're objects that allow people to do what they want. I find that incredibly disturbing. One can be strict, one can be consistent in one's work, but one must have respect for people. Mr Secretary of State, I am truly sorry, deeply from my heart, but I still have the impression that you are still more concerned about the perception of your policy than about the situation of those people.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-commissie-ic791x.u22	Secretary of State, on Wednesday, you did not know that expulsions were planned in January. When did you find out? And when you found out, did you tell the Prime Minister? Did you or did you leave the Prime Minister, like the Belgian citizens in general, in the fog, to keep the line, that is to say not to create this false air call? Secretary of State, these migrants are in transit. They want to go to England. Since the Sudanese know that you have been working with the political police in Omar al-Bashir, none of them will be applying for asylum any more. They would be crazy to do it. I'd like you to answer those questions. My other inquiry concerns my Liberal, Flemish and Francophone colleagues. Listen to Hervé Hasquin! Think of Louis Michel! Where are the liberals of my teens? Dear Liberal colleagues, it is human rights that have justified the creation of your party, the first political party, and you can be proud of it. But where are these rights today? Dissociate yourself from what is happening, and what they are doing with our state. He's lying to you and he's swallowing you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-commissie-ic791x.u23	Mr. President, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Secretary of State, you have told us a story. The problem is that as you yourself have admitted that you are lying from time to time, we do not know very well whether it is the day when we are lucky or the day when we are not lucky in relation to the truth. It's bad for the future. It's bad for your policy. It is unfortunate for the dialogue between the government and parliament. It's a terrible blow to trust. This is a terrible threat to your political action. We do not know whether what was told to us today was totally the truth. In any case, this can only be part of the truth, since you have not answered a series of questions. At best, it's part of the truth. On the chronology, you did not respond accurately. There were very specific questions, particularly from my colleague Mrs Nahima Lanjri, about the time at which you read this information, about how you informed the Prime Minister, about what the Prime Minister already knew during the oral question-and-answer session in plenary. Mr President, on these issues, I would have liked the Secretary of State to explain himself in more detail. Second observation, I really don't understand your air call story at all. I don't understand how a moratorium could create an air call. I do not see how thousands of Sudanese could suddenly go to Belgium when they learn that the Belgian government is investigating and that, in the meantime, there will be a moratorium. I think that today, on the contrary, many asylum seekers and people who seek to migrate say that in Belgium, we no longer know very well where the truth is. Once again, I find the policy you are pursuing to be worrying because of its lack of clarity. You also tell us that there is cooperation with the United Nations. So it is the United Nations that is lying! It has been two days since the United Nations told us that this information is false. This morning, in De Morgen, the United Nations, whether IOM or UNHCR, claimed that your remarks were false, that they were totally contrary to the truth. I personally contacted the IOM representative in Brussels, who told me that I was not involved at all in this matter and that I had never been involved in it. You're talking about a program. Indeed, there is a programme. But we had asked you about these specific repatriations since mid-October, those repatriations for which you had asked for Sudan's cooperation. On this issue, IOM has been very clear and states that there has been no cooperation with Belgium or the Belgian government. At best, it is smoke and, at worst, a lie about this cooperation. I would like to see clarity on this specific issue, whether or not IOM and/or UNHCR have been involved in these repatriations that have concerned cooperation with Sudan. These are the questions that you were asked and you answered us by mentioning a convention of general cooperation with the United Nations. That was not our question. You will understand that we remain on our hunger with regard to these issues. We expected more clarity and honesty, transparency and clarification from you. You owe it to Parliament and your Prime Minister so that he does not make inaccurate statements to the House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-commissie-ic791x.u24	Mr President, I have a question for you and also for my fellow Members. The question is actually very simple. What are we going to do now? After all, we have a Secretary of State here who has actually admitted that he has actually lied about these two points. What are we going to do now? How is a journalist supposed to handle this? How should a Belgian who hears the Secretary of State on television deal with this? If the Secretary of State says anything, we don't know whether that's true or not. It is no longer possible to have faith in what a Secretary of State, a member of this government, says. Colleagues, be aware of what the answer was. The Secretary of State says on one day that we have called on the UN from day one to ensure the safe return of those Sudanese. What does the same Secretary of State say now? That he gave the phone number of the International Organization for Migration to those people whose last call was one person. Is that involving the UN in bringing these people back safely? No, no. So he lied. Secondly, no repatriations were planned until the end of January. You admitted you didn't know that. Okay, that happens. However, you have also admitted that at the time you were told that you have'maintained your communication line'. Do you know what that means in human language? That means you just kept lying without blinking. You've kept lying to me without blinking. You've maintained your communication line. With regard to this television camera, as regards public opinion, you have kept your line of communication and so you have actually continued to lie, even though you knew what was going on. What's it gonna be for next interview, colleagues? Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, do we have the right to continue to lie? Is a communication line an excuse, or some kind of approval to keep lying? Is it the job of a press spokesperson to point out the communication line and thus continue to lie? You've kept doing this without blinking. I have one more question for you, Mr Secretary of State. You knew this Wednesday. Did you inform the Prime Minister at that time, because he gave incorrect information to Parliament on Thursday? Please stop using your smartphone. I ask you a question and I want an answer to that. Did you tell the Prime Minister that return flights were scheduled until the end of January? If so, when did you tell the Prime Minister? Before or after he has given Parliament that incorrect information? I would have liked an answer to that question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-commissie-ic791x.u25	The four interpellants and the applicant have already replicated. I now give the floor to those groups which have not yet spoken. I'll use the usual order to make sure I don't forget anyone.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-commissie-ic791x.u26	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, thank you for your clear answers to the questions that have been raised this evening in this committee. You replied honestly and frankly.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-commissie-ic791x.u27	Honestly?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-commissie-ic791x.u28	You have answered honestly and honestly the questions that have been put here in committee this evening. You have also mentioned the intention and the legitimate reasons. You didn't want to create a suction effect until you were sure there was a structural suspension of return flights to Sudan. You did not want to do this on the basis of rumours from an NGO, which had already spread such rumours in the Netherlands and the United Kingdom, and where after an investigation, which has already been carried out there, it appeared that some of the rumours were false or not so sharp. You wanted to await that investigation, which has already been instructed by your colleague, Minister Jan Jambon, to the Commissioner-General for Refugees and the Stateless, before communicating that one return flight was launched in January.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-commissie-ic791x.u29	(...) It's just the other way around, Mrs. Smeyers. Your logic (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-commissie-ic791x.u30	Mr President, I also kept silent when other Members spoke.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-commissie-ic791x.u31	Mr De Vriendt, I call Mrs Smeyers.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-commissie-ic791x.u32	(...) Very bizarre.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-commissie-ic791x.u33	Let us get back to the heart of the matter. Torture can't be done.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-commissie-ic791x.u34	Lies don't either.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-commissie-ic791x.u35	Mr Secretary of State, you say that as well as the Prime Minister. The Prime Minister said this several times yesterday in plenary. Torture can't be done. But research is also needed. That's all that matters. Our view remains that an investigation must be carried out first. I repeat what I asked yesterday, namely that it should be there soon. We can do that soon. The Commissioner-General for Refugees and the Stateless does not have to take weeks to produce results. So come very quickly, Mr Secretary of State, with that answer to Parliament or to the government and then make the right decision, as you have been doing for years on asylum and migration policy. The opposition, of course, wants to see your head roll, Mr Secretary of State. She wants to see your head roll.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-commissie-ic791x.u36	That's the stake here, that's all that matters.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-commissie-ic791x.u37	I call Mrs Smeyers and no one else.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-commissie-ic791x.u38	Mr Secretary of State, the opposition wants to see your head roll, not just because of this fact. She wants that from the start of your mandate, because of course your policy on asylum and migration runs counter to what the opposition has been doing for years. I know you, Mr Secretary of State. What you've done may not be so elegant, but you did mean well. Your policy...
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-commissie-ic791x.u39	Are you a Member of Parliament or a cabinet official?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-commissie-ic791x.u40	Your policy is your third child. I know. (...)(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-commissie-ic791x.u41	I call Mrs Smeyers, Mr De Vriendt. I'll repeat it again, but it won't last.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-commissie-ic791x.u42	I know that you mean well and that the asylum and migration policy is very close to your heart, that it is, as it were, your third child, perhaps a child that you adopted and was not very well educated, but that you are now steering in the right direction. I'd like to dot the "I" again. The only right way to protect Sudanese refugees is to apply for asylum. That's what this is about. That is what we were talking about yesterday, and that is what we are talking about today. Ladies and gentlemen, even if someone is at risk of torture, which the investigation is intended to show, that is still not a safe way to stay illegally on our territory. We offer asylum protection. We have a very correct and very close asylum system, which we offer. There must therefore be a willingness to legalise and enter that system. Mrs De Coninck, when a person applies for asylum, that application is dealt with by the Commissioner-General for Refugees and the Stateless, and he or she is assigned an interpreter. When someone needs protection, he or she will be given that protection. I repeat our position very briefly. Torture can never happen, but there can be no policy based on rumors. We want an investigation quickly and then clarity.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-commissie-ic791x.u43	Mr President, it will be almost eleven hours since some of us are in Parliament today. I do not think that many of us could imagine starting the Finance Committee that we would meet in this room at 8 p.m. to discuss these issues. First of all, I would like to thank you, Minister and Secretary of State, for disrupting your respective agendas so that we can respond to Parliament's legitimate request for facts that are sufficiently serious to justify your presence. I would also like to thank you for your clarification. Having heard, yesterday afternoon in plenary session, remarks that are sometimes limited and, today, speeches that are often brutal and excessive, and even at the limit of the trial of intent – I do not hesitate to say so – I did not want to speak without first hearing you both. I found this quite natural and in line with the principle of free examination that I was taught at university and that I want to listen before judging, if we have to judge – which is not at all my feeling at the moment. I heard you confirm that no lies have been made. I was convinced before I even heard you. [[Brouhahaha]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-commissie-ic791x.u44	Mr Pivin has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-commissie-ic791x.u45	Some colleagues are certainly very tired tonight. I will still ask them to be polite enough to listen to one of their colleagues. For my part, I didn't interrupt anyone. I think that's the minimum. So, I heard you confirm that there were no lies. And I believe it very sincerely. It is certain that not everyone is obliged to share this point of view. That is what I am expressing, as I think I have the right to do in this Parliament. I heard you remind me of what I think is essential. I am thinking here of what the Prime Minister said yesterday in response to no less than eight or nine topical questions, if I recall correctly. What is essential? That is to say and recall that torture is intolerable. This, moreover, justifies and gives full meaning to the principle of non-refoulement applied by Belgium in international law, and so it is very well. What is essential is also the need for clarity regarding the facts that would have been brought to the attention of the Tahir Institute. Indeed, as far as I am concerned, I am still using the conditional, although, like all those present here, I do not believe that the Sudan regime is reassuring. In any event, for my part, I am not building anything on allegations in the press without being proved, which I think is intellectually correct. In my view, it was natural to start by saying that we want clarity as to the facts, as it was just as natural to say, that in the meantime, we simply stop bringing into Sudan anyone who has not applied for asylum. In fact, it is also a question of Sudanese nationals who do not apply for asylum on Belgian territory. So, in my view, the most important thing is to wait for the outcome of the investigation. In the meantime, I simply want to point out that we are the nationals of a country, namely Belgium, which has always been committed to applying a firm and humane policy on immigration and asylum. Here I want to stress the human aspect. I believe, Mr Nollet, that in Belgium, our officials, our administrative departments are not failing to respect these principles scrupulously with regard to everything that comes to Belgium, whether it is to seek asylum there or not to ask for it. We are dealing here with people who have not made the choice to apply for asylum, but I believe that none of them could say that they have not enjoyed procedural guarantees and respect for their rights on Belgian territory. I think that here in Belgium, in any case, there is certainly no need to be ashamed of the policy that is being applied. I believe that what would have happened in Sudan would have been worth an investigation and that, in the meantime, it is not possible here, democratically, to accuse ministers or secretaries of state of being liars or totally unworthy persons. That's what I meant here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-commissie-ic791x.u46	Ladies and gentlemen, I said yesterday that what we feared happened unfortunately. Unfortunately, I have to say that for a second time today. What I feared, Mr Secretary of State, is unfortunately true. I would first like to await your answer, but you have just confirmed yourself that you have withheld information. You've withheld information, called it a lie or call it what you want. You just said that you kept the communication line and didn't tell us. You didn't know another flight was scheduled on Wednesday, but on Thursday, when you gave VTM information, you did. Thursday afternoon, you knew that. More. It hurts to find out that you also lied to the Prime Minister. You made the Prime Minister, and perhaps your partymates, say things that weren't right. The Prime Minister said, based on what he heard from you, or didn't hear, that there were no flights planned. After all, you said in advance that there were no flights planned. With that information, the Prime Minister has come here to make statements. You didn't inform him correctly. You have done so because you assume that a suspension of repatriation will have an effect. You can have your opinion. Every human being has a right to his opinion. But the Prime Minister said quite clearly here that an investigation would be carried out and that it would take the necessary time to do so. So the Prime Minister did not assume that this was linked to a suction effect, nor did we expect it to be linked to a suction effect. Does that mean that what the Prime Minister has now decided, namely that repatriations will be suspended for the time being, will create a suction effect? (Protests from Secretary of State Francken) I have indeed proposed that the repatriations be suspended as long as the investigation is under way; this has also been proposed by the Prime Minister and, in the end, it has been approved by the majority. Does your answer mean that you now believe that the Prime Minister is creating a suction effect? 'Cause that's what I hear you say, isn't it? Would you perhaps apologize again to the Prime Minister? I know he's a patient man, but I don't know how far that patience goes. I would like to say this to Mrs Smeyers very briefly. Of course, people can apply for asylum with us. A lot of people do that, too. 56% of Sudanese applicants for asylum also receive asylum. The rest of us do not get that, and we do have to repatriate it. Then there are people who, for whatever reason, dare not ask for asylum. Those people need to be effectively repatriated, as I said yesterday. But we must always check whether they are at risk of torture. You're constantly making it seem like it's their own fault. If they don't apply for protection, I guess everything's okay. - Then everything's permissive? - Yeah. No. By the way, people are sometimes not repatriated, in exceptional circumstances, although they are not recognised as refugees or have not applied for asylum, and so have previous governments already acted because we know that this would be contrary to Article 3 of the ECHR. That's the principle. That is a sacred principle, not just for the Prime Minister, but for all of us, I hope. That's important. I have also heard your statements on cooperation with the IOM. Perhaps nothing more has been done than to show people the way or to give them a note that they can, if they want, contact the IOM. You were wondering in several newspapers why these people are contacting the press and not the IOM. I'm not surprised. They had to establish here that it was the Belgian authorities that suddenly confronted them with a Sudanese identification team. Then it makes sense that people are a little scared, if they get a note from the same Belgian authorities with the address of the IOM. I have no problem with the IOM or with the United Nations; they do a wonderful job. Of course, there is also doubt among many and that is why some people do not contact us. The question I have left is whether you will now apologize again. What are you suggesting?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-commissie-ic791x.u47	Mr President, I do not need to speak anymore. I have just defended our group's position, before the Secretary of State spoke.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-commissie-ic791x.u48	Mr President, after what we have just heard, it is almost the presence of the Prime Minister that we could ask for! The least we can say is that there is more than one difference in the majority. I salute Mrs Lanjri's courage. Firstly, to recall the right: it is not because asylum has not been applied for that one can be expelled ex officio. That is not true, in the light of the constant jurisprudence of our courts and in the light of international conventions. Let us stop telling ourselves that it is to avoid a second Calais that we violate the law. If there is no second Calais at Maximilian Park in Brussels, it is thanks to the thousands of volunteers who are making sure that there is still a human dignity for these people to be welcomed in correct conditions. It is certainly not thanks to your policy because if we let it, there would be a second Calais if there were no reaction from the citizens to help all these people and give them the minimum dignity to which they can claim. Basta, your argument on the second Calais! It is you who organize it because you do not even take care of the necessary medical care when there are cases of typhus that are proven among the population. You leave people without medical assistance and without real assistance. It's your government's shame. At some point, you will have to stop saying that you are entitled, in the name of your alleged line of communication, to deliberately violate the law. We finally wonder why you had to apologize to the Prime Minister. We're not even interested anymore, it's become anecdotal! The truth is, you no longer have your place in this government. But you will stay there because there is no one in the majority – unless the CD&V will follow the position of its spokesperson – who has the courage to stand up to you. This is the real political problem in Belgium: the parties of the majority no longer dare to stand up. Mr Pivin, tell us that we are trying intent, it is the world backwards!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-commissie-ic791x.u49	A secretary of state said that the Prime Minister's remarks were absurd. Who, in this case, is conducting trials of intent? Is it still the opposition that is astonished and still defending the role of the Prime Minister, or is it you, who should perhaps ask you what the real intentions of your partners are? This could perhaps, at some point, give you some meaning, including meaning to true Liberal commitments. I wonder if you still are sometimes.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-commissie-ic791x.u50	Mr President, after all that has just been said, I shall make three reflections. My first thought is to say that the Secretary of State has applied the law. It is true that these persons did not apply for refugee status. That is what is being done in other countries. We must not believe that Belgium is the only country to live that way. Other countries than ours have reserved the same fate for the Sudanese. I'm looking at what's going on there, too. My second thought concerns repatriation. I'm delighted and happy. I would like this investigation to begin as soon as possible to shed light on what is really happening in Sudan. Were these people really tortured? I'm against torture, too. It's intolerable, it's true. If it's proven, we have to stop and stop all repatriations. This is not the first time this has happened. But we will have to be very careful about this. In other countries, such as Great Britain, the Netherlands, NGOs have done the same, and eventually the information on torture has proved completely false. I remind you of what happened, almost a year ago, with Aleppo's Syrian family. You will remember that we even sent the bailiff to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-commissie-ic791x.u51	I had the opportunity to go to Syria and to go to Aleppo (...) at the invitation of no one, Mr. Hellings! I went there at my request. I met with the family's employer who was famously applying for asylum. (...) You were not there! I even learned that the Ecolos would have liked to go there as well but they arrived too late and could not go there. I say that we must be careful about this because before we start, I believe, what could also be a great manipulation operation, because, ladies and gentlemen, it exists, caution! Pending the results of this investigation, I believe that we must stop the repatriation of the Sudanese and any other person who would risk his life if he were repatriated. Thirdly, I believe that between someone who applies the law and some NGOs that are financed - we know from whom - I choose Belgian legality in the interests of the citizens of this country and above all in the desire not to have a Calais bis in Brussels. Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-commissie-ic791x.u52	All the groups have spoken. I shall give the floor to the political groups for a second time, possibly with an additional speaker.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-commissie-ic791x.u53	Mr President, a brief final reflection. Some of us seem to have forgotten why we're here. We are here on the basis of articles in the press, articles that still need to be examined for their truth. That needs to be investigated. We are all asking for this, but some have already spoken loudly here as if the truth has already come to light and they can already make accusations. It can't be. That prevents the objectivity of an investigation. The investigation must be able to be conducted objectively and this is compromised. I ask myself the following question. Should that investigation prove that there is not much of a truth, too, this is an assumption, as so many have been made here, will those who have not shunned the harsh words here have the courage to apologize to the Secretary of State? That's the question I'm asking myself tonight.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-commissie-ic791x.u54	Mr President, I have paid close attention to the Secretary of State's remarks. I think tonight we know what's going on. The Secretary of State consciously hid the truth to keep a consistent, and otherwise misleading, line. We know that for months he has been using the argument of creating a Calais bis in Brussels. To maintain this argument, he deliberately lied. We do not know whether he lied to the Prime Minister for the same reasons. Mr. Pivin, I cannot understand that after hearing such comments, you do not have either the decency to be silent, as others have done quite rightly, or the courage to recognize the problem, as the CD&V did. How long are you going to be stubborn? When will there be within this government and this majority of Liberals in the philosophical sense of the term? They would recognize that when we say we've hidden the truth, there's a problem. They would recognize that beyond the question of government, the Secretary of State has gone too far, and that this is no longer going. How long are you going to get down on your knees in this kind of situation? If I may question you, it is because you and the Prime Minister hold the key in your hands. Today, a clear statement has been made to Parliament. The Secretary of State lied. I have therefore tabled a motion of recommendation to conclude the inquiries. I have voluntarily chosen a motion of recommendation that asks the Prime Minister to draw the consequences of what we have just heard here. This is his responsibility now. Of course, the Secretary of State has no place here. But I'm also speaking to the MR. The motion for a recommendation asks the Prime Minister to draw the consequences of this case, because we believe that it is the government that must be able to say that what the Secretary of State has done, namely to use the lie to maintain a political course, cannot be done in a democratic state like Belgium claims to be one. And I hope she is.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-commissie-ic791x.u55	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, you have been questioned several times and you have heard the different reactions. The lessons to be drawn from all of this are limited to the basic problem: your decisions, your agreement, your deal with a dictatorial regime. Don't tell me today, as you often say, that other countries have. The only thing you have not done is to give guarantees, to make sure, when you conclude your small agreement with the Ambassador of the Sudan, that a framework would be set that would allow, following your expulsion decisions, that these persons would not be subjected, where they are returned, to acts of torture. The investigation will show whether or not there has been torture. But the first fault, the first responsibility is to have agreed to deal with a dictatorship without any guarantee or framework of protection. This is unacceptable! In the last 48 hours, you've crossed the red line again. Here, the red line is that of the truth. A minister, a secretary of state who is not telling the truth, is unacceptable to us, Democrats. I hear the CD&V and I salute its courage. I hear the lack of a reply from the Open Vld and, in my view, this silence is significant. On the other hand, ladies and gentlemen of the MR, you spent your time passing the brush to shine – give me the expression – while I expected you, in this chamber, a minimum of values to remember. To tell his Prime Minister the truth, is it too much to ask from a Secretary of State? How can you accept that a secretary of state tells one version and then the other, go back, explains that it is to justify his policy? But finally, where are your democratic values? How can you agree to play in such a scenario? Mr Secretary of State, for us, this situation is totally unacceptable. I don't understand how other parties in the majority still agree to work in confidence with someone who doesn't tell the truth, who tells stories. Mr. Chairman, we have tabled a motion. In such a sensitive policy, which affects values as important as human rights and respect for human beings, it is no longer possible for us to continue to assume these functions and to have these powers, Secretary of State. That is clearly the meaning of the motion that we have tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-commissie-ic791x.u56	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the situation we are in today is obviously very serious. Mr Franken dishonors his function, a ministerial function which imposes the concern for transparency and truth. From this point of view, he failed. He failed by concealing the truth for the purpose of political cynicism. He also failed by letting the Prime Minister move to parliament with inaccurate information, manipulating the Prime Minister, braving and flouting his authority, which weakens the government institution. He also dishonors Belgium on the international stage. This has been seen with the reaction of the United Nations, which points its finger to the fact that its policy violates a number of principles that constitute the values of the international community and are based on respect for human dignity. He also dishonors the government's majority, to which he asks for his repeated turpitudes and to which he has swallowed snakes since the beginning of the legislature – and this has been going on for three years. Anyway, he's in dishonour from every point of view. Does anyone like Mr. Franken still have a place in the government? We consider that not, of course. Because, precisely, it fails to live up to what a ministerial function entails, we believe that it must leave it. And if he does not leave, then you will all be in the end of his policy, which today puts at risk people, human beings who are referred to a bloodthirsty regime where they are at the mercy of torturers, at the mercy of physical and psychological violence. Can a country like ours, which is a democratic state, which prides itself on being able to say that it is one of the democratic nations that respect human rights and public freedoms, afford to have in its executive, at the top of the state, someone who boasts in dishonor and cynicism? Of course, we do not think so. I thank the CD&V for having had this moment of political courage. May he make emulations, especially in the liberal family! Yes, several great liberal figures have been cited, which should inspire more those who today embody liberalism. We're way out of line! Above all, Mr President, it is essential, beyond Mr Franken, beyond the government, beyond the government majority, to restore the honour of Belgium. That is what is at stake. That is why we have tabled a motion asking Mr. Franken to put his resignation in the hands of the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-commissie-ic791x.u57	Mr De Vriendt, you have already spoken, but I will give you the floor very briefly.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-commissie-ic791x.u58	Mr President, I would like to briefly repeat my question to the Secretary of State. Mr Francken, did you or did you not inform the Prime Minister of the truth prior to the plenary debate we held yesterday? I just want to hear a yes or a no from you. Did you inform the Prime Minister of the truth?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-commissie-ic791x.u59	Mr President, Mr De Vriendt, I informed the Prime Minister very early on Wednesday morning, before the publication was published in Het Laatste Nieuws. On Wednesday morning, in a detailed note, I answered a lot of questions which he would ask himself. I was not aware of the cancellation or of the scheduled flight at that time. So I didn't tell him about that. I haven't spoken to him since.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-commissie-ic791x.u60	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Secretary of State, in other words, you lied to the Prime Minister when he answered the questions in plenary. On Thursday, you knew what the fork was like. The Prime Minister didn't know that.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-commissie-ic791x.u61	Mr President, the procedure is being violated here.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-commissie-ic791x.u62	Mr De Vriendt, I shall end by repeating what has been said. That's the idea.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-commissie-ic791x.u63	In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. A motion of recommendation was tabled by Messrs. Wouter De Vriendt, Benoit Hellings and Jean-Marc Nollet read as follows: The Chamber, having heard the inquiry of Mr Benoit Hellings and the reply of the Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration, responsible for administrative simplification, Deputy to the Minister of Security and Interior, notes that he has deliberately lied and asks the Prime Minister to draw the necessary political consequences. A motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr Wouter De Vriendt, Mr Benoit Hellings and Mr Jean-Marc Nollet and reads as follows: The Chamber, heard the interplay of Mr Benoit Hellings and the reply of the Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration, responsible for Administrative Simplification, attached to the Minister for Security and Home Affairs, notes that the Secretary of State deliberately lied and invites the Prime Minister to draw the necessary political consequences. A motion of distrust was tabled by Julie Fernandez Fernandez and MM. Georges Dallemagne and Olivier Maingain read as follows: The Chamber, having heard the inquiries of Julie Fernandez Fernandez and Monica De Coninck and MM. Georges Dallemagne and Benoit Hellings and the reply of the Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration, responsible for administrative simplification, Deputy to the Minister of Security and Interior, asks the Secretary of State to resign to the Prime Minister and that the powers assigned to him be assigned to the Prime Minister. A motion of censure was tabled by Mrs Julie Fernandez Fernandez and Mr Georges Dallemagne and Mr Olivier Maingain as follows: The Chamber, heard the interplay of Mrs Julie Fernandez Fernandez and Mrs Monica De Coninck and Mr Georges Dallemagne and Mr Benoit Hellings and the reply of the Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration, responsible for Administrative Simplification, attached to the Minister for Security and Home Affairs, Invites the State Secretary to resign from office to the Prime Minister and requests that the powers conferred on him be transferred to the Prime Minister. A simple motion was tabled by Ms. Sarah Smeyers. A simple motion was tabled by Mrs. Sarah Smeyers. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed. The motions will be voted on later. The meeting's over.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-commissie-ic791x.u64	Mr President, can you confirm that in view of the fact that motions have been tabled, the plenary meeting is scheduled to meet next week to discuss these issues?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-commissie-ic791x.u65	The Conference of Presidents will decide on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-commissie-ic791x.u66	Mr President, I would ask you to read Article 140, point 6.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-22-54-commissie-ic791x.u67	Whatever they may say, it remains the Conference of Presidents, which decides on this, and not the Committee on the Interior.
