ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-commissie-ic790x.u1	Mr President, Minister, I have already asked you last year about the development of urban gangs in our country. As usual, you had been precise in your answer and you had indicated that there were 12 large urban bands, 23 total bands monitored by the Brussels SICAD. It seems, therefore, that hard cores persist in some Brussels neighbourhoods. In any case, the incidents that have been repeated recently demonstrate the ability to act, if not bands, in any case of breaker movements. The federal government is developing an action plan to respond in a planned manner to riots, which is certainly a useful step. Mr Minister, in view of the recent developments in the city centre of Brussels and the fact that two magistrates of the Brussels Public Prosecutor's Office are specialised in this area, are actions and expertise targeted at urban gangs requested in the framework of the action plan drawn up by the government? Indeed, it seems that breakers came from Wallonia and Flanders. Can you, then, shed light on the potential connections between bands? This seems useful to me in the fight against the risk of riots. In the light of the news of the past few days, seven of the nine people still wanted and whose photos were disseminated are now identified by the police. Could you, then, tell me how an urban band is defined today? How many urban gangs are registered and monitored by the police? What is the breakdown by city of the country? How many individuals are estimated to make up these bands? How many police officers at the federal and local police levels are mobilized to monitor these urban gangs? How many criminal acts committed by these urban gangs have been recorded since 2015 (year by year) in the database of the main suspects? What measures do you intend to take to combat these gangs, which appear to prevent the permanence and widespread use of police interventions and patrols in certain neighbourhoods, as stated in the General Inspectorate's report? Considering the conclusions of the various reports that you received following the riots of November 11, 15 and 25, whether of the AIG or of the P Committee, can the responsibility of urban gangs still be completely eliminated in the ransacks perpetrated?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-commissie-ic790x.u2	Mr President, Mr Pivin, the definition of an urban band is not universally established but can be approached with the help of the circular "urban bands" taking into account the differences in perceptions between the police services. We're talking about police zones and SICADs. This is a local phenomenon that stems from the collaboration between prosecutors, mayors, police and preventive services. The so-called urban band in Sint-Niklaas is significantly different from what is known as an urban band in Brussels. In Brussels, the "urban band" status is a personal label that can be attributed to an individual who is not specifically part of an urban band but who has committed, together with an accomplice, at least two acts of urban bands, as defined in the circular. These functions are carried out at monthly meetings between the police partners, the "urban gangs" unit of the Federal Police and the Public Prosecutor's Office. As a result, neither the Directorate of Police Information nor the Serious Organized Crimes (DJSOC) have these figures at national level. However, I can mention the number of urban gangs active in the Brussels district, i.e. six police zones, with some 30 of these gangs listed in the National General Data Bank (BNG) of the police and for which a report of criminal association is drawn up. These gangs are not automatically disaggregated, which is different for people with an urban band status assigned to them for 14 months, renewable after agreement of the public prosecutor's office and inserted in BNG for field police officers. This status is granted upon request of a police zone and endorsed by one of the three "urban gangs" magistrates. Urban bands do not act as legal entities. It is therefore very difficult to attribute a fact – a theft, rape or other offence – to a specific gang. It is in fact to its members that it is attributable. Such acts and the number of known authors can be identified through the criminal codes included in the circular. The Brussels SICAD, under the federal police, has two people in charge of monitoring urban gangs. In other words, they feed the data banks by recording the main suspects and the facts they have committed, so as to inform the prosecution at the monthly platforms where special measures are decided. The Brussels police area has a cell composed of three police officers, while the other areas work with one or more police officers dealing with mobilities such as urban gangs. To date, we cannot relate the previous riots to the involvement of people classified as "urban gangs" or belonging to an urban band. For the rest, the AIG report forms our guideline. Initially, Brussels-Capital did not have an anti-riot plan, but she worked there in the meantime. I can add that what applies to the areas of this Region also applies to those of other large cities. In the conference of the mayors, we will pay attention to this aspect.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-commissie-ic790x.u3	Mr Minister, I was unfortunately absent from last week's Conference of Mayors, for a reason you will have understood, but I have read the Minutes. For the rest, you have been complete, and I thank you for that. So I won't reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-commissie-ic790x.u4	Mr. Chair, Minister, the terrorist threats that we have been facing for over two years have imposed a new management of security and protection in public space. Indeed, as a result of the Nice and Berlin attacks in particular, it has become necessary to install protective devices in certain places and, in particular, for pedestrian areas. I had also been able to ask you about these devices, precisely with regard to the new pedestrian area in the city centre of Brussels. After the riots in the downtown area a few weeks ago, I was surprised to hear police complaints about the availability and location of the pedestrian, particularly with regard to access to water trucks. However, you had made it clear to me that the arrangements had been installed as a result of multiple consultations with the emergency services and that their recommendations had been taken into account both in the establishment of the town planning permit and in the structural cooperation that had been put in place. I would therefore like to know who determines the plans for the installation of these devices (concrete blocks, barriers to access to vehicles) in public spaces. What are the criteria for such investments? Who defines its temporary or permanent character? Are these plans integrated into the response plans communicated to local police, federal police, and relief and emergency services? Considering the information published in September indicating negative observations made by the Brussels SIAMU services on the pedestrian safety system and the statements made by the Brussels mayor following the riots, what coordination and consultation measures are being taken to ensure rapid and effective access by the operators to the places secured by these devices, without reducing the protection of these places?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-commissie-ic790x.u5	Mr Pivin, the plans for the implementation of these protective devices are carried out by the police services, in consultation with the fire and emergency medical aid services (SIAMU) and with the services of the city or municipality, under the authority of the mayor. The criteria for the placement of these devices are established by the local authorities on the basis of the risk analysis established by the local police. The same applies to the determination of their temporary or permanent character. These plans are integrated into the response plans communicated to the UAIS. In the context of planned events, this is included in the operating orders that are also made available to the federal police. With regard to unforeseen events, it is not desirable to provide in advance the location of the device for all areas. This must be done by the command when the federal police are deployed. The SIAMU is involved in the drafting of the implementation plans; an on-site test with a fire truck is then carried out. This plan is then forwarded to the mayor. The SIAMU then informs all its teams. Finally, any protective devices are discussed with the SIAMU.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-commissie-ic790x.u6	Minister, I have already asked you a number of questions on this subject, particularly since the attempted attack in Thalys. It took some time for the security portals to be operational. I was able to see that at the Midi station, they are for the moment only little, if any, used. In addition, there are reports of long waiting times problems for registrations departing from Brussels Airport. It is necessary to ensure the effectiveness of these devices and that they allow, apart from their obvious deterrent role, to detect concrete attempts to transport illegal equipment or equipment. Minister, how many security gates have been installed at stations and airports in our country? Of these, how many are operational and where are they located? Is their operation permanent? What is the capacity of these portals in number of people checks? What is the difference at this level between the porticoes installed at the stations and the porticoes installed at our airports? What is the profile of staff assigned to these controls at stations and airports? What is the number of such personnel? Does it seem sufficient for the proper operationality of all the portals? Finally, do our members of the Vigilant Guardian Mission participate or cooperate in the controls carried out at these security gates?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-commissie-ic790x.u7	Mr Pivin, the Belgian international stations have security features. These are Liège-Guillemins, Brussels-Midi and Antwerp. There are two devices in Liège and Antwerp, and four devices in Brussels-Midi. These devices are all operational and are located in such a way as to channel passengers to safety facilities in a safe and effective manner, depending on the rail infrastructure present. Safety devices are used randomly and not permanently. People are counted according to an algorithm and, at some point, a signal is issued and these people have to go through these devices. Metal portals in Zaventem are not systematically used. Passengers who have to pass there are those who show inappropriate behaviour when checking the driver detection officer (BDO) or those who are subject to random control by G4S, which is currently the holder of the private guarding contract. The bus station currently has a metal portico with a PC and an ID card reader. The police are responsible for this and apply the principles of the ODB. At the arrival level, there is a metal portico held by G4S. Control is random. The station is equipped with metal portals held by Securail. At the start, there is a metal portico with a PC and an ID card reader. This mechanism is bound by the police, which applies the principles of the requirer detection officer. For stations, it is not the capacity of these safety devices measured in number of person checks that is the determining factor, but the maintenance of the fluidity of the flow of passengers or passengers. In places where the ODB principles are being implemented, staff members who manage these devices have completed three days of training on these techniques. For stations, the personnel responsible for these checks are part of Securail. In this capacity, I refer you to Mr Bellot, the Minister of Mobility, who is responsible for Securail. Finally, military personnel are not included in the BDO teams. On the other hand, they patrol the vicinity of the BDO controls. As far as the stations are concerned, our soldiers do not take care of the controls carried out by Securail.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-commissie-ic790x.u8	Minister, do we have a record of the objects that were discovered during the checks?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-commissie-ic790x.u9	Yeah, but it's not up to date. A few weeks after we installed these portals, we learned that they were mostly metal parts, knives. There were no firearms.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-commissie-ic790x.u10	Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, in keeping with his commitments to prevent and secure public space, the federal government has released a little more than EUR 5 million to modernise the cart of the federal police. A total of 121 vehicles are expected to join the road police units, 54 motorcycles on the one hand and 67 cars on the other, on the other. At the outset, I would like to welcome this significant effort, which is part of a strong road safety strategy, but also in the fight against all forms of crime. I am thinking here of great banditry or terrorism. Federal police officers need fast vehicles that allow all types of interception, with a guarantee of both quality and performance. Could you briefly remind us of the contents of the cart in order? What is the time frame for delivery of the vehicles concerned and what distribution plan has been adopted at the law enforcement level? Furthermore, what is already planned in terms of driving training for these different vehicles, some of which appear to have an engine of more than 250 horsepower? Finally, what decisions have been taken with regard to the current vehicles, which exceed, if I believe the information I have been able to read in the press, sometimes more than 400,000 km in the meter? Thank you, Deputy Prime Minister, for the answers you can give to these various questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-commissie-ic790x.u11	Mr Calomne, sometimes it helps to reread the answers to the questions of previous weeks because this is the third time that the same question has been asked, but either repetitio is mater studiorum. The federal police ordered more than 10 million euros of vehicles in 2017 for the benefit of all units and directorates. Budgets come from federal police investment credits, IDP budgets and the Road Safety Fund, more specifically for road police vehicles. The acquisition of 121 new vehicles, including 54 motorcycles and 67 cars, for the road police, for a total amount of €5.8 million is therefore included. This investment is essential given the current state of the cart and taking into account, as you stress well, the demands on the ground - for example interception - in the field of road safety and the fight against forms of great banditry and terrorism. With regard to delivery times, an average of 30 weeks is required. To this, we must add the deadlines for certain specific arrangements carried out at the internal level of the Federal Police: shielding, radio equipment, stripping, etc. As a result, the vast majority of vehicles ordered this year will be delivered in the course of next year. In general, motorization and options depend on the missions for which each vehicle will be used. An intervention vehicle will not have the same characteristics and options as a vehicle dedicated to judicial or highway traffic missions. For 96 of the 121 vehicles, an agreement has already been reached with the Inspector General of Finance. For the remaining 25 police are still waiting for confirmation. They will be divided by province among the various units of the road police: 13 for Antwerp, 22 for Brabant, 10 for Hainaut, 6 for Liège, 5 for Limburg, 7 for Luxembourg, 7 for Namur, 9 for Eastern Flanders and 7 for West Flanders. Ten vehicles are currently reserve vehicles and will be allocated at a later stage or may be used in replacement of damaged or failed vehicles. In response to your third question, ANPA (National Police Academy) provides training in defensive and other driving to all units whose personnel are required to use such vehicles or to adopt a fast driving style every year, on a fairly frequent and regular basis. In concrete terms, the ANPA provides, at the request of the road police, a basic "vehicle control" training of five days (anti-slip training). This training includes three days of runway training and two days of priority driving on the highway with a service vehicle. The Academy also provides for a two-day basic "vehicle control" training for all members of the road police, High-Velocity training, on a closed circuit. Annually, continuous training (four-hour retraining) is provided for each member of the road police as required, as well as for Continuous High-Velocity training. Finally, no specific decision has been taken on the vehicles you are quoting, as the decommissioning rules are, each time, explicitly detailed in the technical specifications when acquiring each category of vehicles. These rules depend not only on the use of the vehicle but also on other criteria, such as the mileage and age of the vehicle.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-commissie-ic790x.u12	Minister. Thank you very much because you were kind enough to reiterate an answer to a question that would have already been asked last week. The aim was obviously not to have you repeat this exercise. I thank you, however, for providing the various elements of the answer to this question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-commissie-ic790x.u13	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Brecht Vermeulen's 22529 is converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-commissie-ic790x.u14	Deputy Prime Minister, according to a recent study published by the Walloon Road Safety Agency, nearly 5% of motorists in the south of the country would use a speed radar jammer. Unlike the legal tools of the Waze and Coyote type, which indicate the presence of a control and encourage the driver to show responsibility and lift his foot, the said scramblers prevent the radars from operating by sending them false information. De facto, users of these illegal devices can drive at high speed with total impunity. Radar jammers most often require an installation procedure that involves the installation of sensors and interference lenses. These elements shall be hidden from the eyes and connected by weather-protected cables. The use of an unscrupulous garage operator or technician would therefore be frequent for this type of device, which would be negotiated from 500 euros on the Internet. Deputy Prime Minister, have you had the opportunity to go through the study of the Walloon Road Safety Agency? If so, how do you view this phenomenon? On the basis of your contacts with the regional ministers responsible for mobility and on-the-spot checks carried out by the police, do you have any estimates for the whole country? What is the strategy currently being deployed by your services to combat the use of radar jammers? Are detection tools available and available to our country's law enforcement agencies? Finally, is there any room for thought at European level with a view to harmonising legislation in the face of radar jammers? The latter are legal in other countries, such as Austria, while they are not legal in France, Germany and Belgium.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-commissie-ic790x.u15	Mr Calomne, the figures you mention come from a press release that was released by the Walloon Road Safety Agency on April 19, 2016. Sharing information on police controls through social media or other applications is a well-known phenomenon. Applications such as Waze and Coyote allow, through a user community, to share an exact control point, which can compromise road safety. In addition, there are still other devices and other technologies. Devices called "Blu Eye", which detect emergency radiocommunications, scan radio frequencies and when a specific channel is used by a rescue service in the vicinity, the device gives a signal to the driver. These devices are in violation of section 41 of the Radiocommunications Act, which falls within the competence of the Minister of Economy. In addition, there are conventional radar detectors that can detect fixed and mobile radars. They are in violation of section 62bis of the Traffic Police Act. We have no view of the spread of this type of phenomenon. A distinction must be made between proactive communication of controls that are announced by the police services themselves and open communication that is posted by users on the various channels of communication. The first is part of an awareness-raising and prevention framework by the police services and takes place in consultation with the parties concerned. We have no hold on the second type of communication. To respond to ads by social media users, smaller controls could offer the opportunity to increase the likelihood of being controlled. A consultation has already taken place between the Federal Highway Police and the various media groups to see to what extent the controls could be better announced. Discussions continue. The federal police do not have a clear view of the police areas using this type of device. I am not aware of any initiatives emanating from the European level. I refer you to my colleagues, Deputy Prime Ministers Kris Peeters and Alexander De Croo.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-commissie-ic790x.u16	Minister, thank you for the various elements of your response. I will refer to your colleagues by asking them a question as suggested.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-commissie-ic790x.u17	Minister, since the first half of 2017, the municipalities of Belgium can subscribe to the BE-Alert service. A few months after it was launched, although the service has virtually spread in Flanders, Wallonia and Brussels are lagging behind. In Liège, we voted in October for the convention that allows the city to be in the right students. However, the service has already shown its usefulness on a number of occasions, as during the fire in Drogenbos. Moreover, its subscription is not very high (1 100 euros per year). Minister, what are the ways in which BE-Alert is promoted by the federal government to municipalities and citizens? What is the cost of this promotion? What rate of subscription do you target in the coming months?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-commissie-ic790x.u18	According to the press, Seveso sirens around sensitive sites such as nuclear power plants and chemical plants will be replaced next year by the BE-Alert system and social media. In the long term, BE-Alert is therefore called upon to signify the condemnation of these sound alarms. As you know, this network of sirens was built following the chemical disaster in Seveso, Italy, in 1976. It currently has approximately 570 audible alarms and is used to alert residents in emergency situations. In the last twenty years, however, sirens have not been used for real emergency situations. On the other hand, they were maintained and tested, at a total cost of €420,000 per year on average, excluding staff costs, according to the Crisis Centre. In concrete terms, the devices will no longer be maintained in 2018 but tested well every quarter with BE-Alert. The destruction of the sirens will begin in 2019. Minister, how will people without gsm be warned? What will you put in place? As regards the municipalities which are not registered in the BE-Alert system (my municipality in Ixelles has requested it, but I also know that some French-speaking communes are still lagging behind), how will the citizens of these communes be warned in the event of a chemical disaster, for example?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-commissie-ic790x.u19	Mr Foret, as mentioned above, the BE-Alert platform is a tool for alerting and informing the public as innovative as it is recent. The accompanying approach calls for the association of several warning channels to cover the widest possible segment of the population to be alerted according to the specific area and type of emergency situation. The promotion of the system towards the communal authorities began at the end of last winter, a few weeks before the launch of the platform for the general public. While it is true that many Flemish communes have quickly shown interest in BE-Alert, it should be noted that the interest of French-speaking communes has been growing since this summer, especially since the beginning and the resumption of communal councils in various communes after the summer break. All municipalities were invited to information sessions on the BE-Alert system, organized by the Crisis Centre with the assistance of provincial governors. Municipalities that have not had the opportunity to be represented may call on the BE-Alert team of the Crisis Centre, which is travelling to the provinces to inform and train the municipalities who request it. Several days a week, the members of this team go to the provinces to meet with the communes with the help of provincial governors who regularly organize information and training sessions for the municipalities who wish to do so, as was still the case in Liège on Friday 15 December. These information sessions also provide an opportunity to demonstrate the systems as well as to conduct question and answer sessions between the municipalities and the BE-Alert team of the Crisis Centre. There is no specific cost for promoting the system to the municipalities. The cost of promotion actions to the general public is part of a broader approach, as part of the Inforisk information campaign, which aims to raise awareness among citizens of being involved in their own security, in particular by registering with BE-Alert. Our ambition is to reach 100% in the course of 2018. Currently, we are at 333, so more than half of the municipalities six months after the platform became operational. We therefore continue our awareness-raising activities. Mr Vanden Burre, alerting and informing the public in the event of an emergency is one of the essential tasks of the authorities. That is why the Crisis Centre has been investing for several years in the development of effective means to fulfil this mission. These means are therefore adapted to the use of new technologies by citizens. These means have always been complementary in order to pursue an integrated and comprehensive approach to alerting, in order to reach as many citizens as possible. Although sirens and now BE-Alert are seen as the main warning tools, they are not the only ones because there are other possibilities for the authorities to communicate with the population: door-to-door, traditional media such as television and radio, social media, police speakers, and electrical billboards in many cities and municipalities. However, you are surely aware that BE-Alert's specificity is to offer a multi-channel alert allowing the authority that activates it to alert its population by voice message on a fixed phone, by text message on a mobile phone, by e-mail as well as by fax, and even by generating the message on social networks simultaneously, if necessary, to a large number of people. As a result, people who do not have gsm can be alerted by voice message on their fixed phone in the case of BE-Alert activation, but also by other means of alert mentioned a moment ago. In addition, unlike the sirens network, BE-Alert allows precise communication to the citizen's address to whom we can give clear instructions – for example, shelter or evacuate – while allowing a view of the number of people who have actually received the alert. The BE-Alert system is part of a series of tools developed by the Crisis Centre to support local authorities in their emergency planning and crisis management missions. Accession to BE-Alert is therefore proposed to the municipalities, but without obligation, each mayor remaining free of the methods of alert which he will adopt if necessary. Nevertheless, more and more municipalities are joining the platform both in the north and in the south of the country. However, it should be remembered that the inhabitants can be alerted by their mayor but also by their provincial governor or by myself via the Crisis Centre, depending on the extent of the emergency situation for which they must be warned, by the BE-Alert bay. I invite you to register if you have not yet done so. However, in the same spirit, there is also SMS-Alert. Through this, the mayor, the governor or myself can decide to send messages by text. In this case, you must not be registered. This is for everyone, including foreigners in the area.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-commissie-ic790x.u20	Thank you, Deputy Prime Minister. I can assure you that I am a good student and I am registered in my personal capacity. I was therefore able to receive this message during the fire in Drogenbos which allowed me to have a situation and the example of the message which was very precise. I think, as you have just shown, that this multichannel system enables us to reach as many people as possible beyond the means previously available. I also think that these messages are accurate and allow us to ensure that the population does not panic. In June this year, I think we may be able to take stock of the various municipalities that have not subscribed to it and see how they can be encouraged to do so. Perhaps there is also a configuration or peculiarity of some communes that are not used to these technological means and that make them think they are safe from the threat. We will see this but it is already very good to have the 333 communes. I would also remind you that your ambition is to reach 100% coverage.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-commissie-ic790x.u21	Minister, thank you for your answer. It is true that my concern was about the digital divide and the divide in terms of the means of communication that exist in our country. I think the answer to that is very illuminating. It's really important and interesting to see that there are a whole series of channels, including traditional channels, channels of the past century (the fax, the landline phone). In the area of security, all our citizens must be able to be alerted. I'm also registered. This has worked as far as the members of the Committee on the Interior are concerned. Let's hope this works for all the municipalities!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-commissie-ic790x.u22	Deputy Prime Minister, anxious to better control the speed of motorists, the police plan to buy new radars in the form of a gun-laser in the near future. These, discreet, are able to flash a car in excess of speed in both directions and several hundred meters away. Their approval is under way. How many units are to be purchased by the police? What is the cost of these? When do you expect to be able to deploy them? Which police areas will they be the first to be equipped with? How many PVs for speeding are set up each year? What is the unpaid, untreated, unjudged PV rate? Aren't you afraid that the public prosecutor's offices will be overburdened because of the effectiveness of these new tools?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-commissie-ic790x.u23	My colleague, as far as your first three questions are concerned, it is not yet possible to provide you with an answer for a number of reasons. First, the approval procedure must be completed before it can be acquired. The desirability of acquiring such systems still needs to be examined and, if so, the framework for its use should be defined. With regard to your fourth question, in the first half of 2017, 1,712,323 offences were found by the integrated police for speeding. Compared to previous years, this number differs little and shows relative stability in the number of observations written for speeding. For the whole of 2013, there were approximately 3.2 million offences; in 2014, 3.4 million; in 2015, 3.2 million; and in 2016, 3.3 million. It should be noted that the above offences found by the police services correspond to the sum of the minutes and immediate perceptions found by the police services. On the basis of the data available to the policy, the immediate collection, unpaid payments and incorrect payments can only be reported, i.e. 18.2 per cent for 2013, 18.6 per cent for 2014, 18 per cent for 2015 and 17.5 for 2016. Finally, your last question is not a matter for me but a matter for justice. However, the implementation of the Crossborder project aims to reduce the administrative workload for both police and prosecutors.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-commissie-ic790x.u24	Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, thank you for these elements. Indeed, the last question was not within your jurisdiction. I forgot to take it off. She stayed on my computer. I will come back to the issue when the certification is completed, to see how the police intend to act.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-commissie-ic790x.u25	Question No 22582 by Mr Jean-Jacques Flahaux is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-commissie-ic790x.u26	Deputy Prime Minister, for the past six months, the Antwerp road police have been testing the use of drones in the detection of serious accidents in order to reduce traffic congestion during the day only. This test phase will soon come to an end and is clearly positive as the system will soon be put into operation in Hainaut. This will require the training of pilots. What is the cost of using these drones? What savings have been achieved through their use? How many times have they been used? What is the cost of training pilots? What will be the next provinces to benefit from this service? When will the use of drones at night be made possible?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-commissie-ic790x.u27	Mr Foret, this is a device made available by Vias, following a memorandum of understanding. So it wasn't purchased by the federal police. We are not able to calculate the economy accurately. The use of photogrammetry and 3D with drone makes a considerable difference from traditional findings. This represents a significant gain of time in terms of speed (50%) of roadway findings and clearances. This has the effect of reducing the number of hours running and increasing the quality of the findings. To date, drones have been used in eight operational cases, not including training. The cost of training pilots is approximately 3,500 euros per pilot. The next provinces to benefit will be the road police of Eastern Flanders and subsequently the road police of the provinces of Brabant, Hainaut and Liège. We're still in the test phase. Several criteria are being analysed: photo quality control, technical possibilities, regulation, etc. However, when using the drone at night, the visibility parameter is very important because safety risks are higher.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-commissie-ic790x.u28	Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-commissie-ic790x.u29	Questions Nos 22600, 22606 and 22607 by Mr Jean-Jacques Flahaux are transformed into written questions. Mr Friart is not present to ask his question No 22602.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-commissie-ic790x.u30	Mr President, Deputy Prime Minister, you are continuing your reform of the police services. I am not against it, on the contrary, when it comes to optimising the structure in general and the functions in particular. Nevertheless, a great deal of information is circulating, including through union meetings in police areas. From one of them, it appears that your administration would be busy changing the police pension plan. The amount of the police pension would be 49 per cent instead of 75 per cent of the current gross salary. What about it?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-commissie-ic790x.u31	Mr Carcaci, in view of the questions asked, I hope that you will echo in more than one police area. In this one, apparently, rumors are flowing around. With regard to the police pension scheme, I would obviously refer you to my colleague in charge of pensions and to the current discussions on heavy trades. The subject that falls within my competence is the non-activity prior to pension, which I am pleased to announce to you that last November the Council of State rejected applications for annulment, which I welcome.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-commissie-ic790x.u32	Minister, thank you. I take note of the answer and will cross-check my information with other police areas.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-commissie-ic790x.u33	Deputy Prime Minister, I would like to take you beyond the preambles. It is my responsibility, from the same source, that the cumulative number of days of illness, as far as the police are concerned, would be limited to 214 days. This quota should be exhausted before being restocked for 30 days per year. What exactly is the situation? Maybe you'll send me back to your health colleague...
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-commissie-ic790x.u34	No, no, Mr. Carcaci. There are currently no changes in the health care regime of operational members of the integrated police force. Indeed, I am not aware of any draft text that would change the police status in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-commissie-ic790x.u35	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-commissie-ic790x.u36	In the same vein, Minister, it would appear that your administration is in the process of changing the status of police officers who are victims of an accident at work. Would their status be different from other public service workers? I would have liked clarification at that level too.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-commissie-ic790x.u37	Mr Carcaci, with regard to accidents at work, members of the integrated police force, as well as members of the staff of other public services, fall within the scope of the Act of 3 July 1967 on the prevention or compensation of damage resulting from accidents at work, accidents at work and occupational diseases in the public sector. In addition, a new draft royal decree, which contains more protective provisions specific to the police services, has recently been negotiated with a view to indemnifying police personnel who are victims of serious acts of violence beyond what is reimbursed on the basis of other legislation. This means that a police officer who has an accident at work, after cleaning up all the other means provided for in his insurance, may be reimbursed for the balance of the actual costs incurred. It's a big change from the past. I think we should do this to the police.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-commissie-ic790x.u38	Thank you very much. That's right, they deserve it.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-commissie-ic790x.u39	Minister, we are talking about the hacking of Uber's data of some 100,000 Belgians, drivers and customers of the company, in October 2016. This is part of something that is happening around the world. Have you heard of this information? Have you made any arrangements? Could an investigation be conducted to identify the perpetrators? If you have the conclusions, I'll be curious to hear them. Have any faults been identified in safety and thus exploited by the hacker? If so, which ones? What are the very concrete initiatives taken by the competent authorities to prevent and stem the effects of such attacks? Lastly, what measures would be taken to encourage victims of computer piracy to report more to the police? What are the instructions received by the police to deal with this situation? Could you elaborate on your answers? Thank you in advance.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-commissie-ic790x.u40	Mr Kir, the federal police do not have any additional information than is available in the press. It also does not have any information to date on the identity of the foreign service in charge of the investigation. However, the Federal Police will work to obtain concrete information after identification of the foreign police service holding the elements. If there were to be an impact on Belgian victims, the federal police would be notified of this through the international information exchange channels provided for that purpose. As in every identical situation, the police services act on the initial complaints. Since there has been no special alert in Belgium, no instructions other than the usual handling of complaints have been given at this stage.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-commissie-ic790x.u41	I thank the minister for his answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-commissie-ic790x.u42	Minister, my question is about tightening the rules on driving. It is said in the press that some truck drivers do not hesitate to borrow several traffic bands to exceed other vehicles despite the difficult weather conditions on the roads. According to the spokesman of the Federal Road Police: "The ban on overtaking on motor vehicles, on motorways and on roads with four or more bands applies to vehicles and trains of vehicles of more than 7.5 tons, in case of precipitation in the broad sense." In addition, the police can only act if they take a driver in flagrante delicto. Your colleague Mr Bellot therefore intends to tighten the law. According to him, in early 2018, truck overruns will be added to the list of violations found by ANPR cameras. The amount of the fine is EUR 58. However, it is not certain that this concerns drivers from foreign countries with whom there is no concrete police collaboration. On the basis of what I have just explained, I would like to ask you the following questions. What are the elements in place to ensure that these findings of offences committed by foreign drivers are effective in their country of origin? Is coordination envisaged on this subject at European level? What do you think of the testimony of a road police officer who explains that, in fact, fines are not sufficiently dissuasive? I'd like to hear your opinion on that.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-commissie-ic790x.u43	Mr Kir, the minister in charge of mobility does indeed have the intention of adapting the ban on overtaking in the event of precipitation. This prohibition would apply to drivers of vehicles and trailers with a maximum mass of more than 7.5 tonnes. The fine will be made an offence of the second degree and the amount of the immediate collection of the fine should increase from EUR 58 to EUR 116. This infringement will be added to the list of offences detected by automatic devices in the absence of a qualified agent. With regard to international coordination, there is indeed a European directive to identify EU drivers committing offences on the national territory of the Member States for a limited number of infringements. In this case, the driver is identified by consulting the Eucaris database. However, the prohibition of overtaking is not included in the list of infringements which allow this Directive to be applied. Although the law will soon allow for the detection of this offence through automated devices, we are not aware of a system that would allow the automatic detection of these offences to date. In conclusion, drivers of foreign vehicles must always be intercepted by the police when this offence is found. Raising the amount of the fine should not affect the number of findings made by the road police.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-commissie-ic790x.u44	Mr. Chair, I thank the minister for his full answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-commissie-ic790x.u45	Mr President, Minister, I am asking you about the federal action against the vans carrying the Villo! bicycles. An article published in the press reveals that there is a controversy between the Brussels Region and the federal state. At the heart of this: mobility and the Villo shared bike system! in the capital. Indeed, these are small trucks charged with moving the Villos! to the needs of the people, but they are too often stuck in traffic. Hence the Brussels Region's decision last July to allow these vans to use bus strips and tram lanes. According to the article, this "common sense" measure would not have pleased the federal government and, at the end of September, an appeal was filed by the Belgian State with the Council of State. Minister, could you provide us with more information on this matter? What is the status of the procedure today? What is the State's motivation for acting in this way? Has the road police found any safety problems or problems with the Road Traffic Code in the transport of these bicycles? If so, which ones?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-commissie-ic790x.u46	Mr Kir, I am aware of the dispute between the Mobility Directorate of the Brussels-Capital Region and the Federal State, but I have no further information on this. I would point out that the Federal Road Police (DAH) does not have jurisdiction over the territory of the Brussels-Capital Region. This prerogative belongs to the six police zones. The dispute you are talking about concerns, in my view, the Directorate-General for Mobility. Mr. Bellot's, I guess.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-commissie-ic790x.u47	Mr. Bellot's. I'll ask him the question. The article refers to an action that was allegedly brought before the Council of State. It's not the responsibility of the interior. Could it also be within the jurisdiction of the Minister of Justice?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-commissie-ic790x.u48	I think this is about Mobility.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-commissie-ic790x.u49	I shall therefore turn to Mr Bellot.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-commissie-ic790x.u50	Minister, on December 14, the Council of Ministers approved a draft royal decree on the extension of strategic safety and prevention plans in 2018-2019. The project aims to extend the current cycle of 2014-2017 strategic safety and prevention plans by two years. The municipalities currently benefiting from such a plan will therefore be granted another plan from 1 January 2018 for an identical subsidy. If the project aims to extend the current cycle of strategic safety and prevention plans by two years, what are the reasons for introducing or prolonging a new plan from 1 January? For municipalities that have already started hiring staff with this plan, what will they be able to do on January 1, 2018? What will become of the agents involved? Will they lose their jobs? You understand that my purpose with these questions is to have you confirm that we are well in the continuation of existing plans and not in something new.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-commissie-ic790x.u51	Mr.Kir, the current cycle of strategic safety and prevention plans ends on December 31, 2017. To this end, the municipalities concerned have introduced plans with strategic and operational objectives up to 2017. On my initiative, the government has decided to extend the current cycle. In this context, the same municipalities should re-set their targets for the period 2018-2019. In practice, the extension is based on the same principle as in previous extensions, notably in 2012 and 2013. The municipalities concerned have the possibility to take over the same objective priorities as those of the 2014-2017 cycle, but all this needs to be formalized. This is the reason for the need for a new convention that can take over the local priorities of the current cycle. Since the municipalities currently benefiting from a strategic plan will again be granted an annual subsidy equivalent to the period 2014-2017, the issue of the staff engaged by the municipalities does not raise any problems, provided that these commitments correspond well to the objectives chosen by the municipalities to extend for the 2018-2019 cycle and meet the regulatory requirements which are identical to those in force in 2014-2017. Since the decision to extend the plans was taken on 14 December, discussions between the municipalities concerned and my administration will take place in January 2018, as was the case in the previous extensions. It was materially impossible for my administration to organise a consultation with the 109 municipalities concerned over a week of time, taking into account the availability of the municipalities at the end of the year.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-commissie-ic790x.u52	Minister, thank you for the clarity of your answer. It seems to me that it is good management to have done this. Over two years, it will give us time to plan for the future. This response will appease staff engaged in security and prevention contracts. As far as the method is concerned, you are continuing a dialogue that is bearing fruit because, as we are not saying enough, it is thanks to the police that we are able to achieve objectives but also through prevention. I think that you do not question the action of prevention, that on the contrary, you want to perpetuate it for the next two years. I invite you to prepare after 2019 with the municipalities.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-commissie-ic790x.u53	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Nollet's 22440 was postponed. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Friart's 22602 was also postponed, as it was only announced on the agenda yesterday.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-commissie-ic790x.u54	Mr President, Minister, on Wednesday 13 December you had a meeting with the Conference of Mayors of the Brussels Region. The press reports that on this occasion you made proposals in terms of reinforcements for the Federal Reserve, the recruitment of Brussels police officers and the appointment of a police officer specifically responsible for the management of reinforcements in case of heating in the capital. With regard to this last point, you have announced that technical meetings will be held in the coming weeks, in particular to define who will assume this role of coordination of reinforcements. I would therefore like to ask you about these various points. What reinforcements are envisaged for the Federal Reserve and by what date? With regard to the recruitment of Brussels police officers, how do you intend to organise it and through which authority? Will this system be centralized for the six Brussels police zones? In our view, this would be interesting. Finally, in terms of the appointment of an officer who will coordinate the reinforcements, what are the options envisaged to assume this role and how is such coordination organised at the level of other important urban areas, such as Antwerp, Ghent, Liège or other comparable cities in Brussels?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-commissie-ic790x.u55	Mr. Vanden Burre, the federal reserve currently consists of about 500 police officers. It provides, 24 hours a day and 7 days a week, a platoon equipped with special means (watering machines and cellular vans). This platoon can be activated immediately in the event of unforeseen events, calamity. There is therefore no capacity problem in itself. For the moment, the general reserve still has sufficient capacity to mobilise this intervention platoon at certain times at risk. In this context, it is necessary for the local police forces to carry out a risk analysis in order to detect potential risk moments and to predict the reserve capacity adapted to these risks. The operational capacity of the Federal Reserve will therefore be considerably strengthened. With a risk analysis, local police areas define their federal support needs. We then adapt our federal reserve capacity to these needs. With regard to your second question, currently IPM 73 already offers many opportunities for additional recruitment to local police services. In addition, other scenarios have been developed within the framework of the pilot project, which I have already mentioned several times here in committee and which is called the "Customized Recruitment" of the Antwerp police zone. These scenarios followed the evaluation of the pilot project. These are three possible scenarios. In the first scenario, the autonomy of the police zone goes very far, from the recruitment campaign to the feedback offered to candidates on the results achieved, to the organization of the selection procedure. The federal police are only involved in the deliberations committee to monitor the process as a whole. The costs of the entire procedure are borne by the police zone. This is the case that goes the farthest and the case for which Antwerp opted. This option has a cost for areas but different areas can conduct such a procedure collectively. In the second scenario, agreements are made in advance between the police zone and the federal police to decide who is responsible for a particular phase of the process. The costs are allocated according to the agreements. So we have the most local system. The third scenario is fully federal. There is always a possible negotiation between the federal recruitment service and the area or areas concerned, to modulate the different systems. The third option is the classic scenario where the federal police supports the entire selection chain as well as costs. These various possibilities were communicated, during several information sessions, to all the police areas concerned. The necessary information was also transmitted to the various mayors present. The draft, together with the three scenarios, was presented to Parliament on 7 February 2017 in this committee. I recalled these three scenarios to the Brussels mayors. They'll see which one to choose with their zone chiefs. The General Inspection Report revealed that the Brussels Capital Police Area - Ixelles did not have an action plan that could be implemented in the event of unexpected riots. As a result, no command structure has been put in place. The presence of a leading officer, called the Gold Commander, is crucial for the professional conduct of platoons in the field and for dealing adequately with such calamities. The function of the Gold can be performed within the police zones or the Dirco Service. However, everyone agrees that he must be an officer. For the time being, the Brussels Police Area Capitale - Ixelles is preparing a consultation manual with the other five police areas. The interested parties are meeting today. We await the results of their work. The shortcomings identified in this plan will therefore be resolved. These shortcomings are true for Brussels, but also for other major cities. What will be decided for Brussels will serve as an example (best practice), to be followed quickly by the areas of other major cities.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-commissie-ic790x.u56	Thank you, Minister, for your full answer, which we will analyse with rested head. These are important elements, constructive reactions, especially as a result of recent events. It is interesting to note that constructive work can be done between the federal police and local police areas. Let us hope that this actually serves as a good practice for others. We will follow this carefully and benevolently.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-commissie-ic790x.u57	Minister, in a statement to the press on Monday, 18 December, an operational head of the Médecins du Monde organisation, which provides front-line care to migrants around the Gare du Nord, noted that – according to the testimony of the victims – police violence against them remained problematic. I quote: "We receive many testimonies from people whose property has been confiscated. They are particularly targeted by public transport controls and regularly face violence from police officers." The number of testimonies gathered by the actors in the field tends to considerably increase the credibility of this statement, although I understand that they should be heard with all due care. Minister, in view of the precarious situation of the victims, what are the possibilities for complaints or appeals against possible police abuses against persons in an irregular situation in the territory? Can witnesses or third parties complain to an appeal body, whether it is the P Committee or the AIG? Are investigations open? If so, how many? Have some of them already been completed? Has the number of identity checks increased in public transport since September? Can you provide us, in this respect, with statistics showing an annual comparison, both in Brussels and in SNCB vehicles or on their descent? Finally, we have been informed of several cases of persons travelling with a valid transport document, although they were subjected to identity checks on their descent from the train by police officers who were waiting for them. Can you shed some light on the existence of such cases?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-commissie-ic790x.u58	Madam, any person, whether in his or her capacity as a victim, whether in illegal residence or not, as a third party or as a witness, may lodge a complaint, make a denunciation or transmit information to the king's prosecutor by any means of law. This can be translated into a simple letter communicated by post to the magistrate of the judicial district concerned, a statement in any police station or service, or by contacting, as appropriate, the internal control department of the police area concerned, or the internal control department (TIWK) of the federal police, or by contacting the P Committee or the inspection service (AIG). In this regard, it is strongly recommended that all relevant information be provided in order to identify the victim, the perpetrator(s) and the facts, so that the legal proceedings can be completed. As far as Committee P is concerned, it should be pointed out that the latter carries out three types of investigation: control investigations, investigations into complaints and criminal investigations. Monitoring and complaint investigations are carried out under the authority of Standing Committee P, namely the Chair, the Vice-Chair and the three effective members. Criminal investigations are judicial police investigations. The Organic Law of 18 July 1991 provides that these are executed by the auditor of Investigation Service P under the supervision of the judicial authority, i.e. the King's Prosecutor or the investigating judge in charge of the criminal investigation. With regard to your question about police intervention against transmigrants, I can inform you of the following. Committee P conducts a monitoring investigation into the controls and detention of transmigrants by the police during large-scale administrative arrests. This investigation is under way. Committee P received two complaints on the issue of police intervention against transmigrants. These investigations are not yet closed. The Prosecutor of the King of Brussels entrusted the investigation in the context of a criminal case to the Investigative Service P. Only the Prosecutor of the King of Brussels is entitled to provide explanations in this respect. As for the IGA, to date it has not had to deal with police violence against migrants. There are no figures on the number of identity checks carried out. So I can't provide them to you. The safety of the Brussels rail network and metro, including the security of trains and metro trains, wharves and lanes, is the subject of a priority commitment by the Federal Police Railway Police. In the context of the terrorist threat, security efforts have been strengthened by the support of military personnel and by the regular engagement of the Brussels Task Force, in particular. This security is carried out by visible patrols but also by identity checks and specific actions aimed at certain phenomena – narcotics, pickpockets, etc. Rail transport is no exception. In the context of identity checks, Ministerial Circular OOP 43 on enhanced controls on the basis of Articles 28 and 34 of the Police Function Act is applied. Under this legal framework and these conditions, it is perfectly possible to carry out identity checks of persons who descend from the train and are in possession of a valid transport document.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-commissie-ic790x.u59	Thank you, Minister. I understand that security measures have been increased because of the terrorist threat. We can only greet him. The challenge is not to be the wrong target and that it is not more fragile or sensitive audiences or people who eventually become collateral victims of such measures. With regard to the ongoing investigations, I understand that you cannot say any more. In my personal capacity, Mr.Minister, Mr. President, I would like to wish you and your staff and all the staff who accompany us with a wonderful holiday and the best in terms of health and family for the new year.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-commissie-ic790x.u60	With these fine words, we can close the sitting. All the questions have been asked. I wish everyone a good year at the end of the year.
