ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-21-54-plenair-ip208x.u1	The meeting is open. The meeting was opened.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-21-54-plenair-ip208x.u2	[[for the standing meeting]] The President [[in front of the assembly standing]] Ladies and gentlemen, Colleagues, On Thursday, 7 December, Minister of State Philippe Maystadt died in Nivelles. He was just 69 years old. Philippe Maystadt sat in the Chamber for Charleroi District from April 1977 to November 1991 and from May 1995 to June 1999. Philippe Maystadt was born in Petit-Rechain, near Verviers, in March 1948. His father's professional activities, an industrial engineer, led the family to move and settle in Charleroi. Philippe Maystadt attended the Jesuit College, the College of the Sacred Heart. He then began studies in law and economics at the same time, first in Namur, then in Leuven. He graduated as a Master of Arts in Public Administration at Claremont Graduate School in Los Angeles, and obtained an assistant position in the Faculty of Law at the University of Leuven where he obtained his doctorate in public law. While the brilliant young graduate Philippe Maystadt initially seemed to be promised a long academic career, in the mid-1970s he entered politics through Jean-Jacques Viseur, his former student friend, at the time a cabinet collaborator of Alfred Califice, Minister of Labour. Philippe Maystadt joined the Social-Christian Party (PSC), for which his father had been a member of the communal council of Farciennes. In 1979, only two years after his first election as a member of the Chamber, he became Secretary of State for Walloon Affairs in the Martens I government: in the then political context that was a delicate task. Maystadt was immediately noticed by his intelligence and his zeal, his file knowledge and his great bargaining power. Until 1998 - for almost 19 years - Philippe Maystadt was Minister. He served as Minister of Public Administration from 1980 to 1981. From 1981 to 1985 he was Minister of the Budget. He played a leading role in the recovery policy and he helped draw up the Savings Plan: then a saving of 230 billion Belgian francs over three years, implemented with special powers. From 1985 to 1988 Philippe Maystadt was responsible for Economic Affairs, and from 1986 to 1988 also Deputy Prime Minister. For ten years, from 1988 to 1998, he was Minister of Finance: under Wilfried Martens, and under Jean-Luc Dehaene, to whom he declared a huge admiration for his knowledge of the issues and his willingness to compromise. As Minister of Finance, Philippe Maystadt is reforming the management of public debt and in order to reduce the cost of financing public debt, he is introducing competition between banks. Under its leadership, Belgium also joins the European Economic and Monetary Union and the Belgian franc is linked to the German mark. Between 1995 and 1998, in addition to the post of Minister of Finance, he was also Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Foreign Trade. After the election defeat of Christian democracy in 1999, Philippe Maystadt abandoned active politics. On 1 January 2000, his appointment as President of the European Investment Bank widened his horizons. He made the EIB a solid institution, truly at the service of the European Union. After the end of that mandate, in 2011, Philippe Maystadt held a number of prominent positions in two areas close to his heart: the economy - for a time he was chairman of the main microfinance cooperative in Belgium - and especially higher education: until recently he was chairman of the board of directors of the ARES, the association of higher education institutions in the French Community. In recent years, Philippe Maystadt thought and wrote a lot about the adaptation of the political company and representative democracy. Ladies and gentlemen, Colleagues, Philippe Maystadt, husband, father and grandpa, still cherished many projects, both professionally and privately. He faced with courage and lucidity the incurable lung disease he was suffering from. A few months ago, a reporter asked him about what happened after death, and he said: "Nothing. And that's what makes me serene. I'm not afraid of what can happen next. It reassures me. 'You are dust and you will return to dust.' In between, I had the chance to have a full life, to experience exceptional moments, to discover the beauty of the world, and, I hope, to have been a little useful. As for the trace I will leave, I do not care." On behalf of our Assembly, I have offered our deepest condolences to his wife Kathleen and his family.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-21-54-plenair-ip208x.u3	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. It is with great sadness that we learned, a few days ago, in plenary session, the disappearance of Minister of State Philippe Maystadt. With his departure, the Belgian political debate loses one of his great figures. A striking, endearing personality, a brilliant spirit. With great modesty, he was a listening man and a man of decision. He also had immense pedagogical qualities, this ability to simply explain complex mechanisms in order to be able to maintain rich and fruitful exchanges with his interlocutors. Recognized unanimously for his intelligence, hard work and sense of compromise, Philippe Maystadt will choose the CFP family to carry his convictions after an already promising academic career. As a man of knowledge, he has developed his expertise throughout his political career, first as a member of parliament and then as a minister. His many qualities brought him to the head of the European Investment Bank. He played an important role in achieving economic and monetary union, as well as in realising the euro. He was European, heart and soul. His attitude and ideas have touched and inspired many of us. A few months ago, as part of my consultations on an investment pact, I had the opportunity to meet Philippe Maystadt. It was an opportunity for an exciting and useful exchange on the role of investment in economic development and social cohesion. Close to the citizens and always listening to others, he will bear witness, throughout his life and to the end, to his deep attachment to his region, the Charleroi region. On behalf of the entire federal government, I extend our deepest condolences and support to his family, his wife, his children and all his loved ones.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-21-54-plenair-ip208x.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, in the memory of this Stateman, I would ask you to observe a moment's silence.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-21-54-plenair-ip208x.u5	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 20 December 2017, I propose the legislative proposal (Mrs Peter De Roover, David Clarinval, Servais Verherstraeten and Patrick Dewael) to reform corporate tax (no. 2864/1) to be considered.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-21-54-plenair-ip208x.u6	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 20 December 2017, I propose that you take into consideration the bill (MM. Peter De Roover, David Clarinval, Servais Verherstraeten and Patrick Dewael) on corporate tax reform, No. 2864/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-21-54-plenair-ip208x.u7	Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-21-54-plenair-ip208x.u8	Mr De Roover, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-21-54-plenair-ip208x.u9	Mr President, I would like to refer to the relevant legislative proposal No. 2864 the question of urgency. The first phase of the corporate tax reform will enter into force from 1 January 2018. So that's very soon. This reform, as everyone here knows, has a profound impact on taxation, both by large companies and by SMEs. Not least, with regard to policy decisions for the coming year and years and in the end-of-year period in which traditionally most financial years are closed, it is of particular importance that companies have legal certainty about the future and on this basis can make the necessary assessments and make decisions. In addition, the fall in the rate will result in company tax latency from next year at the lower rate applicable as from then on approval. This is particularly the case for companies that keep their accounts in accordance with IFRS rules or US accounting standards, where so-called reduced tax assets, such as transferred losses, have to be recognised in the accounts. If the reform is not adopted before the end of the year, the lack of approval would have a substantial impact on reporting to the shareholders of the companies in terms of, inter alia, tax latency. In addition, the first phase of the reform also provides for a set of compensatory measures to apply from 1 January 2018. Once again, in the absence of approval and publication of the measure before the end of the year, some of these compensatory measures could become retroactive and the Belgian State would be exposed to possible claims before, for example, the Constitutional Court. It is of course important for the balance within the funding of the reform that all compensatory measures can also be fully effective from 1 January 2018. For these reasons, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is in the interests of legal certainty for companies as well as legal certainty for the Belgian State and for the budget that the reform can be approved before the end of the year. In short, for obvious reasons such as those mentioned above, we are asking for the urgency of this fine piece of legislation. I would also like to express my gratitude to both the majority and the opposition parties who have adopted a constructive attitude over the last few days because they have been able to place the general interest above the private interest in this matter. In conclusion, allow me to wish all my fellow Members a peaceful Christmas and a happy year-end.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-21-54-plenair-ip208x.u10	Colleagues, consideration is being given and the request for urgent action has just arrived. We speak by sitting and rising. May I ask that those who support the emergency rise?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-21-54-plenair-ip208x.u11	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this government outsources its asylum and migration policy to a dictatorship. The political police of Omar al-Bashir came here to identify migrants in transit from Sudan. You're being astonished today, Secretary of State. These same Sudanese, once back there, are molested, assaulted, threatened. It may take you a month to check what a dictatorship really is. Working with a tyrant, Prime Minister, has a cost. It is this violence suffered by these Sudanese. It's a human cost. But there is also a political cost, it is shame for this country. These Sudanese migrants, before returning to Sudan, were at Maximilian Park or North Railway Station. On several occasions, I asked the Minister of the Interior whether there were any quotas imposed by the police to determine how many migrants had to be arrested that day. Twice, the Minister of the Interior said to me: "No! Finally, you must dare ask this question!" Today, however, it appears - it is in the press - that there is a report of the exact figures. The title of the minutes is "Preparation meeting for the measures imposed by the authority on Maximilian Park" and, unfortunately, figures are given. There is, for example, the estimated number of people to be asked for a major action on 21 September, 250. Minister, when will you stop covering your Secretary of State and your Minister of the Interior? How long will you lead these unworthy policies of democracy?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-21-54-plenair-ip208x.u12	Prime Minister, we warned you. By bringing agents from the Sudanese dictatorship here and letting them decide who is to be put back on the plane to Sudan, you have made a pact with the devil. In all your eagerness to send refugees back, you have taken the risk of torture. Don't tell me you didn't know all that. Don't tell me you're falling out of the sky, because that would be hypocritical. The responsibility of your government, and in particular of your Secretary of State, Theo Francken, is very great. Colleagues, there is a fundamental question. How far are we going to send people back to their country of origin? We know that return is the culmination of a fair asylum policy, but will we send back political opponents? Shall we send people back to be tortured there? The balance in this asylum policy is completely lost. Theo Francken always talks about being soft for the vulnerable. Today we know that this is definitely not the case. It's no big deal. People are sent back quickly, but where they end up is none of your business. You don't care anymore. What's to be done now? How will the government deal with that? Prime Minister, you say that you will no longer organise deportations to Sudan until 31 January next year, but in the VTM news, your Secretary of State, Theo Francken, responded bits, and he noted that no expulsions were planned until 31 January in any case. We repeat here with great conviction and conviction that there can be absolutely no cooperation with the Sudanese dictatorship in our country. You crossed a red line! Stop the identification missions from Sudan. That is what we are asking you to do, and that is the answer we expect from you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-21-54-plenair-ip208x.u13	Mr President, Prime Minister, three months ago to the day, Mr Maingain denounced here Mr Franken's agreement with the Sudanese Ambassador, allowing the presence in Belgium of a delegation of Sudanese representatives, including secret service agents, to identify migrants of Sudanese origin in Maximilian Park. This unprecedented collaboration with the Sudan, whose President has been prosecuted since 2009 by the International Criminal Court for genocide, war crimes and crimes against humanity in Darfur, is contrary to our international commitments. We reminded you of the jurisprudence of the Aliens Litigation Council, which, on 17 July, already confirmed in a case concerning a Sudanese prisoner for deportation to the Sudan, that such a return was contrary to article 3 of the European Convention on Human Rights, given the real risk of being subjected to torture. Jurisprudence that a Secretary of State for Migration had to know and respect! So you were well aware of the dramatic consequences this mission would have for the people thus expelled. Both Mr Jambon and Mr Franken had then told us that the operation was proceeding in full compliance with international law, carefully assessing the risk of expulsion - in the light of Article 3 of the European Convention on Human Rights - and that such an assessment was taking place, whether or not a person had applied for asylum. Today, we find that nothing has been verified and guaranteed for those Sudanese who are returning home and who are now tortured and ill-treated. Your Secretary of State then announced that an investigation would be opened into whether they had been tortured. Is this your scrupulous assessment of the risk of torture in soudan? An investigation requested more than three months after the conclusion of your agreement with the Sudanese authorities? Last night, as you announced the suspension of the deportations to Sudan during this investigation, until the end of January, we learn that new raids were under way at Maximilian Park, which, according to a police report published this morning in the press, correspond to an arrest schedule and quotas fixed and assessed by your Minister of the Interior, quotas which he has always denied the existence of! Prime Minister, the list is long: serious misconduct, provocation and lies on the part of some members of your government. Their credibility is no longer, as is that of your authority as head of government. It's not Maximilian Park that needs to be cleaned, but you have to clean up some members of your government!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-21-54-plenair-ip208x.u14	Mr President, I am sorry to note that, since the beginning of the speeches, neither the Prime Minister nor Mr Franken has been deigning to look at parliamentarians. The rules defined when the government had respect for parliament are shaken!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-21-54-plenair-ip208x.u15	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-21-54-plenair-ip208x.u16	You can move around. But it doesn't matter. Prime Minister, I know you're easily losing your nerves when you're in trouble. (...): You are ridiculous.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-21-54-plenair-ip208x.u17	I'm the one who's ridiculous? Prime Minister, last night on my way home, after a long day like the ones we all know right now, I've been thinking about you. I wondered how you were going to sleep and if you were even going to fall asleep, when we learned yesterday that the technical cooperation concluded with the Sudanese regime on Mr. Franken's proposal had led people deprived of their liberty to torture and imprisonment. Did you sleep well? Did your conscience allow you to sleep? I also want to ask Mr Franken this question, although I know the answer, not only to all members of the government, but also to all the members of the majority who applauded this technical cooperation. Yesterday, while everyone was denouncing, civil society was indignant, and NGOs were asking you to finally take the measure of Mr Franken's policy, your only reaction was to confirm what your Secretary of State already said about The First, a few days ago, that there was no more planned flight to Sudan before January. But no commitment to Dublin. And while you were saying these words, the police were arresting fourteen people at the Gare du Nord. No stop, therefore, at deportations, Prime Minister. A technical break, no doubt! Your Secretary of State is still undressing you on Twitter this morning. Still this morning, as if that were not enough, the press reveals that your Minister of the Interior did not tell Parliament the truth about the numerical targets for arrests around the Gare du Nord. Undressed once again! What steps is your government taking to secure the immediate release of these individuals? Do you intend to issue them with a humanitarian visa to bring them back to Belgium, where they will be able to benefit from the care and security to which everyone must be entitled? In the light of this information, what protective measures does your Government intend to take with regard to all Sudanese present on Belgian territory? Will you finally suspend the Dublin agreements as far as they are concerned? It still appears that Mr Franken's services have committed a serious mistake by failing to ensure that the Belgian authorities are able to understand, even though the opposite was said to us in committee, what was happening in the talks with the torturers you invited and accompanied to our country. What measures do you intend to take in this regard? It is clear that neither Mr Franken nor the appropriate minister respect your authority.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-21-54-plenair-ip208x.u18	I invite you to conclude, Mrs Fernandez.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-21-54-plenair-ip208x.u19	I'm finishing, Mr. President. It is clear – I said – that neither Mr Franken nor the appropriate minister respect your authority or present the guarantees necessary for the proper functioning of democratic parliamentary control. Are you going to, yes or no, get your hands on this case? Are you going to plunge your political formation into the reproach of collaboration?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-21-54-plenair-ip208x.u20	Mrs Fernandez, let me point out to you that your question was far too long.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-21-54-plenair-ip208x.u21	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, Mr Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, there is a real question as to the part of unconsciousness, naivety or cruelty in the implementation of your asylum and removal policy. The question is also raised as to what part of humanity is involved, as we learn, just a few days away from Christmas, that the worst fears expressed here in parliament by NGOs and international organizations have come true, and that the people who were sent back to Khartoum, with the cooperation of the Government of Omar al-Bashir, have indeed been mistreated and tortured. In fact, you are not questioning this information as you have requested that there be no further dismissal until the end of January. It would, in fact, be difficult to do so since that information came from Mr Verhofstadt's former right-hand arm. The information is therefore extremely serious. As we became aware of the results of the policy led by your Secretary of State, Prime Minister, we were learning that quotas have been applied to Maximilian Park, and that email exchanges are proving this. So your Minister of the Interior lied here about this case. We also learned of another lie. Indeed, according to some, Mr. Francken had asked the International Organization for Migration (IOM) to accompany the persons concerned on the ground, which is completely wrong. IOM is never competent in cases of expulsion; it is never competent in cases of forced return. Never! I got confirmed again this morning by IOM. As a result, these people were dismissed as you knew these risks. They had been mentioned and repeated here in this Parliament. There were no protective arrangements upon their arrival in Khartoum. There was no one to make sure these people would not be mistreated. Prime Minister, I ask you to review your policy of returning to the countries where dictatorship prevails. I ask you to put in place a system of reception when returning people to such countries. It is the tip of the iceberg that is revealed to us today. We know, you know, he knows that every time people are sent back to authoritarian countries, they are mistreated. It is time to put in place a mechanism to ensure that when people are returned to that type of country, a protection mechanism is present upon arrival. I ask you to review this type of policy and the way it is carried out in depth.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-21-54-plenair-ip208x.u22	Mr Prime Minister, last night you announced that the repatriation of Sudanese refugees to Khartoum will be suspended. There are stories of torture and abuse. If they are true, that is absolutely unacceptable. However, we had warned you and your secretary of state. Since September, we have said: yes, return is sometimes necessary, but cooperation with dubious regimes must be done with the utmost caution. We know that the regime of al-Bashir is not afraid of genocide. That's why we've been asking for an interpreter at the identification missions since September, so the DVZ understands what's going on. That is why we have been asking since September to investigate whether there is a risk of torture and ill-treatment upon return. That is why we have been calling for the follow-up of the deported Sudanese since September. We have even asked Minister Reynders to make a liaison between the government and the Belgian embassy to ensure that succession. Every time it was said, we're gonna do that. All these recommendations have not helped, Prime Minister. The government has given full control to Sudan. You outsourced your work to Sudan without control. Hence the abuses. Now you say: we're going to investigate, but those are figs after Easter. In fact, it seems that the risk of torture has been tested experimentally. That's outrageous and shocking. Prime Minister, you have once again had to whistle back your Secretary of State. My question is simple. Who will take responsibility in the future and ensure that proper procedures are used? What guarantees will be sufficient for you after the study in Sudan, so that expulsions no longer derail?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-21-54-plenair-ip208x.u23	Prime Minister, the testimonies about the torture inflicted on Sudanese refugees after their refoulement to their country make their backs cold. During the debate at the end of September, you were quite sure that they were safe. However, many associations and organizations had informed you of the existence of problems. Amnesty International had given you testimony from Sudanese refugees in Jordan. In particular, the CIRE warned you and your Secretary of State that Sudan was not a safe country. It might seem obvious, but apparently it wasn't for your services or for your Secretary of State, so we could turn these people back. You have also claimed that you are pursuing a firm but humane migration policy. Human? What is there to send people to torture? What human beings do not guarantee their physical integrity? What is human in this policy? This is the first question I ask you, Prime Minister. Let me turn to my second question. On 26 September, we took part in debates in committee, precisely on this issue. You then replied: "This principle of non-refoulement, a key principle of international refugee law (you referred to Article 3 of the European Convention on Human Rights), stipulates that no State will, in any way whatsoever, return a refugee to a country where his life and freedom may be threatened." So you yourself told us that it is forbidden to return people when their physical integrity could be jeopardized. What judgment do you have today on that sentence you delivered on 26 September? And then we asked you more questions. We have also asked questions about the procedural guarantee. On 26 September, Prime Minister, you replied to us: 'As far as procedural guarantees are concerned, the orders to leave the territory and the decision to remove them are taken by the Foreign Office. On that occasion, the Foreign Affairs Office shall analyse the possible risk of a breach of Article 3." Prime Minister, did you make that risk analysis? If so, can we, as a Member of Parliament, look at this risk analysis? My question is therefore very clear, Prime Minister: will you persevere in this inhuman policy?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-21-54-plenair-ip208x.u24	Mr President, Prime Minister, I would like to outline the context. An NGO is spreading rumors that people who were previously returned from Belgium to Sudan were abused and imprisoned. It's rumors, not official complaints. You want to investigate the situation just in case. I understand that you want to be careful, but these are Sudanese people who are illegally staying on our territory, illegal people who have not chosen to be protected, illegal people who have not applied for asylum. (...): It's about people.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-21-54-plenair-ip208x.u25	These are people who can be protected by our good asylum system. That is not only Theo Francken's policy, that is also what the law says we should do with illegal immigrants, which is to return illegal immigrants to their countries. We do not have an exceptional return policy. It goes without saying that the only European country to reduce this return policy, while other European countries will not do so in the same situation, is at risk of becoming a free haven for Sudanese people in Europe. We must not tolerate situations such as those in northern France. cdH and also Mrs De Coninck mention little or no procedures, but this return policy is carried out in accordance with European and international procedures and even with European financial and logistical support from the IOM. Prime Minister, no repatriations to Sudan were planned in January. There is therefore no question of suspension. That's good, that can't happen either. January gives you time to examine the situation, but I urge you not to waste any more time than is necessary and only to use the month of January and certainly not to give the wrong signal that we would reduce our return policy on the basis of rumours.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-21-54-plenair-ip208x.u26	Prime Minister, what we warned about a few months ago, at the end of September, namely to be careful in cooperation with regimes such as Sudanese, has unfortunately become true today. We now have reports that refugees who have been repatriated have been locked up and abused. Sudan, Prime Minister, is not a country like another. Human rights are being violated on a large scale. We also see in our country that most Sudanese people who apply for asylum receive that. Anyone who does not get asylum here or who does not ask for it is also people, Mrs Smeyers.. must leave the country or must go back, albeit always with respect for human rights. Mrs. Smeyers, we're dealing with people with no papers. Of course, a return policy is necessary, but always with respect for human rights. Article 3 of the ECHR states that we can and must send refugees back, always taking care that there is no risk of them being tortured or killed. We must always be able to guarantee that. If we can't guarantee that, we can't send them back. I asked for that guarantee a few months ago and she was given to me by the Secretary of State. Today we get reports that the warranty cannot be hardened. You're questioning it. At least the Tahrir Institute is an independent institution. We can check whether the facts have actually happened and will have to do so. In any case, the opposite must be done. We should not look at it afterwards. Maybe people were tortured, but then it's too late. It is not only international legislation, but also our moral duty to ensure that we do not cause people to die. We must ensure in advance that they do not run risks. Prime Minister, I would ask you to investigate this further in cooperation with the IOM and with the Tahrir Institute, which have brought out the testimonies. We asked yesterday to suspend the expulsions. You have done so, and I think that is the only right decision, how difficult some people seem to be when I see the reactions. You made the only right decision. There should be no time limit on that. Is that the end of January, so much better. If that's the end of June, because you need that time, you need to take that time. You must take the time you need to do so and let no one lecture you. In short, we ask you to make the right decision and not take any more risks.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-21-54-plenair-ip208x.u27	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this is a serious matter and we must take it seriously. I will try to respond to the various points that have been raised, with the necessary nuance, because this seems indispensable to me. First, I'll talk about the context. A few months ago, during the summer, we were confronted with an unusually difficult situation in the heart of Brussels, in the Maximilian Park. We are convinced that it was necessary to take initiatives to avoid a Calais bis in the heart of Brussels, and we assume that everyone in the assembly agrees that it is the responsibility of the governments, including the government, to do everything in their power to do so. It is a second point that I want to highlight: thanks to the permanent evaluation carried out by the various services, we have found that we are confronted with migrants, the majority of whom do not, in fact, want to apply for asylum in Belgium. This is a key point that no opposition party has mentioned. Many of these migrants do not want to seek asylum. These are mostly transmigrants who, for family or linguistic reasons, want to go to the United Kingdom. The dismantling of Calais has led to movements that have affected Belgium in the north of the country and in Brussels. That is the reality we are facing. Third point. I explained myself to Parliament on the subject a few months ago. I assume what I said then, with all the nuances. We do believe that, as is the case for the European Union and for many other European countries (France, Germany, Sweden, Norway, Italy), it is necessary to cooperate with the countries of origin technically in order to organise this migration issue as best as possible. This is the European Union's strategy I want to be very clear. I did say, Mrs Lanjri – and others mentioned it – that Article 3 was a sacred principle. I persist and sign. This is an extremely important principle for us. That is why I would like the government to have an assessment of how the audits were conducted, in relation to section 3. This is something I want to highlight immediately. We got that information yesterday morning, not through an official complaint but through the press. Some in the assembly consider the information to be objective facts. Maybe that's the case. It is possible that these facts are proven, in which case the situation is very serious and must lead us to react. There is no shadow of doubt about this. But we must first make clarity. We need to implement an independent investigation with – I hope – the support of international organisations. We sought IOM's support in this study. At 6:30 a.m., the Secretary of State and I were in contact to launch the independent investigation instructions and to ensure clarity on the matter. Finally, I confirm that it is my intention to give concrete effect to this mandate in the context of tomorrow's Kern meeting for the exact outline of the investigation to be carried out. I hope to have the results as soon as possible in January. It is true that there was no scheduled repatriation before the end of January. I go even further: there will be no repatriation until the light is brought to light through the investigation that has been requested. Mrs Caprasse, as I say in moderation, I deeply regret the terms you use. To talk about raids or deportations is to make the connection with a story that is deeply dramatic. This is, in my view, absolutely scandalous and unacceptable! Mr President, it goes without saying that I will ensure that Parliament is kept fully informed, step after step, of developments in this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-21-54-plenair-ip208x.u28	Prime Minister, you have announced a moratorium. I note that all the parties of the majority, with the exception of the N-VA, applauded. We'll see what happens. Prime Minister, thousands of Belgians today feed, house and convoy these migrants in transit from Maximilian Park and the Gare du Nord. I was last night with these migrants and with the volunteers. I met a totally unexpected person there: one of your voters. She told me she was disgusted by your quota policy, that policy of collaboration with dictatorships. She said, "I'm never MR again." This citizen, she can turn her back on you. But please don't turn your back on your nature! Do not turn your back on our nature to all, our human nature! Prime Minister, these Sudanese are human beings, like you and me. They deserve respect, like all migrants.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-21-54-plenair-ip208x.u29	Mr Prime Minister, you are actually trying to hide the fact that you have a very big problem. It just shouldn't have gotten this far. It is the result of an asylum policy that has been completely derailed in our country for longer than today. Mrs Smeyers, the human rights situation in Sudan is not a rumor. How many more reports do you need? Anything's possible. Anything's for you. What price do you want to pay before you can send someone back? I am shocked by your speech; I am deguised by it. A person who is illegally resident in our country is still a human being and still has human rights. He must not be sent back to Sudan to be subjected to torture there. Prime Minister, you say that you will now investigate that. Isn't that a bit of the world upside down, though? You should, of course, have investigated that before you started the expulsions to Sudan. I would like to thank CD&V and Mrs Lanjri for their protest against that policy, against government policy, since last night. However, I would like to ask them to stay a little more focused in future. The fact that the Sudanese people are being sent back and that a Sudanese identification mission is being brought to our country is definitely in the government. So there is a shared responsibility. Keep up the good work. Colleagues, it's a wake-up call, it can't go on like this. I am also looking at you, Prime Minister, and I am counting on you to put an end to that.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-21-54-plenair-ip208x.u30	Prime Minister, we are far from the "human" migration policy that you claim to implement! Your Secretary of State claimed that he had not received any reports of torture in the Sudan, not even from the United Nations. But that's not true! Indeed, even before Mr Franken's decision was taken, the United Nations had already described the human rights situation in Sudan as one of the most horrific in the world, with the government carrying out massacres of civilians and members of the political opposition, destruction of property and rape of women who were then burned alive! The United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees had also confirmed the risk of reprisals and prosecution by the Sudanese authorities in the event of a return to the country. You didn't do it! And you supported, and even funded, this Sudanese mission. That's the reality! Do you stop sending the Sudanese to their homes? But it's too late, Prime Minister! Meanwhile, God knows what's going on there! So this is not a "big problem", as Mr Franken says, but a serious political mistake, for which your Government bears the heavy responsibility. And I will conclude: yes, Mr Hasquin was right in denouncing a collaboration worthy of the Vichy regime!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-21-54-plenair-ip208x.u31	Prime Minister, you have pointed out some of my remarks as being excessive. That's great, I'm taking them off. But what is excessive is Mr Franken's association. It's his policy. It's his indignity! That is what is excessive! You're sending people to torture with the collaboration of Mr. Franken, N-VA, Sudan. And obviously, it doesn't stop you from sleeping because nothing is going to change: Mr Franken keeps his skills. He has probably managed – as he likes to say – to clean Maximilian Park, but he has smacked the hands of all those who applaud it and support it week after week!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-21-54-plenair-ip208x.u32	Prime Minister, you're making some announcements. You first announce an independent investigation. What's shocking and outrageous is that you should know what's happening on the ground. Of course, you should have given up these Sudanese repatriations. You should have been in the field when they were repatriated. Your ambassador should be there, on the spot. I know that Mr Franken has been aware of this information for several days and you, you still do not, obviously, know exactly what happened. It's extremely shocking! The second thing is that you announce a moratorium. But the Secretary of State has already replied to you, in the words of Mrs Smeyers: there will be no moratorium! It is, it is, they are, at the N-VA, totally in disagreement with your policy, with what you are announcing here in Parliament! So either it's naivety or it's nice talk, but we already know what the N-VA plans to do later. I'm asking you this, Mrs. Smeyers. What you said shocked me deeply. Yes, of course, they were in an illegal situation, but they are human beings, who must be treated with dignity. They do not deserve to be tortured and mistreated. Stay with your party in the Democratic camp and do not cross that red line in migration policy! Pay attention to what you say and what you do! The Prime Minister has recalled this, and we hope that these are not mere words again: we are bound to respect international law.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-21-54-plenair-ip208x.u33	Prime Minister, you say that you will have an investigation carried out, but you do not actually take responsibility for the fact that you could have been informed in advance and that you should have installed safe procedures. I have tabled a bill to set up a permanent follow-up committee for evictions. Twenty years ago, a follow-up commission for expulsions was recommended by the Vermeersch Committee after the death of Semira Adamu. I propose that we approve that bill early next year, along with the securities tax. Prime Minister, after the incident with Semira Adamu, the Socialists assumed their political responsibility for what had gone wrong. What is the fundamental problem today? Scores and targets must be achieved in the number of exposures. Asylum seekers are increasingly considered not as people, but as numbers, as scum that you need to shake off as quickly as possible. Apparently, all means are allowed to do so.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-21-54-plenair-ip208x.u34	Prime Minister, you are announcing today that an investigation will be conducted. An investigation! But this investigation should have already taken place! On September 26, 2017, you assured us that the Foreign Office would conduct a risk analysis. So, what investigation are you talking about? Is it an investigation to determine if there are tortures there? Is that the question you are asking us today, as if you were unaware of it? That's the problem! There were already many testimonies. You told us, "No problem, the investigation will take place." Prime Minister, you bear the responsibility and we must draw conclusions. The reality is that the investigation was sloppy at the Foreign Office. Buiten! We can put them out! The problem is that there is a fundamental ideology of thinking that all refugees are profiters and that, therefore, they are thrown out. The problem is, there was no pre-investigation. That is the question that is now being asked politically. You say, moreover, that they have not submitted an application here in Belgium. How does this allow people to be tortured? How is the principle of non-refoulement rejected? Colleagues, as you know, Article 3 of the European Convention on Human Rights is still legally applicable, even if the person does not apply for asylum in Belgium. You're saying they're not asking. What do they ask then? They are addressed to our services and what do they have in front of them? The shirks of the regime, next to a Belgian official who does not even understand what is being said. Prime Minister, take your responsibilities and clearly attack Mr. Franken's policy of putting everyone out to polarize the population.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-21-54-plenair-ip208x.u35	Mr President, Prime Minister, every European country is returning to Sudan. Europe is giving money for these repatriations. France, Italy, Sweden, Germany, Switzerland, the United Kingdom, the Netherlands and Belgium are returning to Sudan. In the Netherlands and the United Kingdom too, NGOs have made such claims which later turned out to be false or, at the same time, grossly exaggerated. It is only natural, then, that we should ask for a thorough investigation before taking a drastic, structural measure and no longer carry out any repatriations of illegal immigrants who do not wish to apply for asylum. No repatriations were planned in January. It is logical, then, that we should ask for this study to be carried out as soon as possible in January. No policy, Prime Minister, Secretary of State, is as difficult as asylum policy, because it is indeed about people. (Someone responds with "oh")
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-21-54-plenair-ip208x.u36	Yeah, you do, one of those "oh." It is justified, however, because it is about people. In order to meet this policy, the rules must also be applied. The legal basis remains that we are asking for asylum and therefore protection here, or we must return. A thorough investigation, Mr. Prime Minister. What we should not do, however, is to tolerate illegality of a particular nationality in and as the only country in Europe.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-21-54-plenair-ip208x.u37	First of all, Prime Minister, I would like to thank you for your reply, which, like every Prime Minister, you have given on behalf of the entire government. I would also like to thank you for responding to our proposals. We asked you not to take any risks under Article 3 when people are sent back. They must not be at any risk of being tortured. You said that this Article 3 is sacred to you. If you say it's sacred to you, it's sacred to everyone. Also for people who have been rejected, including those who have not applied for asylum. That principle is sacred. That applies to anyone repatriated. Secondly, you are also prepared, as we asked, to conduct an independent investigation, not only with the IOM but also with the other relevant partners in the field. Thirdly, you were already on our line when you said no repatriations. I'm glad you're now confirming that you're not setting a deadline for that. If the investigation is to be carried out thoroughly, Mrs Smeyers, it cannot be said that there must be an expiry date and that it must be completed by the end of January. If that's the middle of January, and if the investigation is done thoroughly, that's fine. If that's June 15th, that's okay. It has to be done, and there's no time limit. That's all that matters. No repatriations until we are certain that those people there will not be tortured! Finally, Mr De Vriendt, I would like to make a few points. You say this was a government decision. These repatriations to the government have never been decided. I am pleased that the Prime Minister is now drawing the matter to his attention. Because when it comes to human rights, one cannot be too careful. I would like to thank you, Prime Minister, and I hope that you will take part in the monitoring of human rights and that you will also offer all the guarantees that are needed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-21-54-plenair-ip208x.u38	You are asking for the floor for the order of business, Mr Calvo?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-21-54-plenair-ip208x.u39	Mr President, pursuant to Rule 54 of the Rules of Procedure, our group is asking for a change of agenda. I agree with the Prime Minister that this is a very sensitive and serious matter. We are only now finding that the Secretary of State, who has just left, clearly contradicts the Prime Minister outside. We also note in this debate that CD&V is a party asking for a moratorium, whereas the N-VA clearly does not want that. That is why, on the basis of Rule 54 of the Rules of Procedure, our group is asking that the Chamber decide today on the suspension of return policy to Sudan and the suspension of the identification mission. You can judge that. You can submit that agenda change to the Chamber. In any case, it is our question that the Chamber should make a clear statement on this matter today. In view of the division of the majority outside and within this Chamber, the Chamber must make a clear statement, especially since it is about how our government and our country will act in December and January. That is why we, as Members of Parliament, must send a clear democratic signal here and now.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-21-54-plenair-ip208x.u40	Ladies and gentlemen, I take note of the fact that I have received an order motion on the basis of Rule 54 of the Rules of Procedure. As I am supposed to do, I will read it out: 'Let us be clear at Question Time that Parliament is expressing its opinion on the suspension of the identification mission with Sudan and the return policy to that country'. The motion for a resolution was signed by Mr Calvo, Mr Nollet, Mr De Vriendt and Mr Hellings. We will take note of that and deal with this order later.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-21-54-plenair-ip208x.u41	Mr President, Prime Minister, last Tuesday, according to some 25 000 people and according to the other 40 000, in the harsh cold, you argued against your pension reforms. It would then be thought that you would give some thought to the demands and questions of those 25 000 to 40 000 people who walked through Brussels. But no, you blame the trade unions and the opposition, but also the protesters for spreading lies and creating fear. Prime Minister, people are very worried about their pension. I've been out on the street a lot, and I've been going to a lot of debates about pensions. Well, I can assure you that people are very worried about their retirement. That is not because of the opposition or the trade unions, that is mainly because of your policy. You know as well as I do that if you want to carry out a major reform, you need to create a basis for that. Then you must ensure that employers and employees can support the plan, as has always been the custom in our country. Young and old need to know where they're going. This policy is completely out of order. You have not only unilaterally increased the age without consultation, you have also managed to deprive people of pension rights with retroactive effect. It was recently approved in this Parliament that people who started working before 20 and become unemployed at the end of their careers will lose their pensions, whereas they were told otherwise in the past. Prime Minister, there is a great deal of fear and uncertainty. So you shouldn't be surprised that people are on the streets. Following the demonstration, CD&V said that the point system is a means but not an end in itself should not lead to a reduction in pensions in the future. Was that the intention, Prime Minister? Would the point system be used to reduce pensions? It is not that way that one will take away fear. Prime Minister, how are you going to take away the fear? How are you going to restore confidence in pensions? In particular, I would like to clarify the points system. Will we ensure that pensions can never be reduced?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-21-54-plenair-ip208x.u42	Mr President, Prime Minister, last Tuesday we had tens of thousands in the streets of Brussels to argue. During this demonstration I heard many stories from people who have visited the website mypension.be, the website that was launched by your Minister of Pensions. This website has brought about this in our society and has ensured that we have so many tens of thousands of people on the streets. People have once faced reality. For example, a lady who has worked in the cleaning sector for forty years said that, after typing in her data on mypension.be, she came to a result of 1 198 euros pension. That's why the lady came here to Brussels by train from Hasselt. And what's your answer? That it's fake news, that it's lies. Such a statement has not often been made. It happens sometimes that we disagree, but it is rare for a minister to say that there is a lie. Prime Minister, tell us when and on what subject one lie was spread, including numerically. Forty-eight hours we've been waiting for a single proof of fake news, and we still don't have one. Harden your claim, Prime Minister, and tell us where the lie is. It is true that the abolition of the pension bonus will result in a reduction of EUR 180, right? Or will you say that the amount of EUR 180 is not correct? It is also true that the introduction of a point pension in Sweden will make it necessary to work 3.5 years longer. In Germany, the introduction of the point pension reduces pensions by 10%. That's correct, isn't it? Prime Minister, there were tens of thousands of people arguing, but you say that the information available to those people is lies. Harden the pronunciation. Where are the lies, what are the wrong numbers?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-21-54-plenair-ip208x.u43	Mr President, a first important point is that we may agree on the diagnosis. Pension reform and the financing of pensions in the future are a major challenge for our generation. The numbers are known, they're not new. Other governments also faced this challenge about the future of our pension system. Life expectancy is now 81 years. Each year, an additional €1.5 billion is spent to finance pensions. We have chosen to undertake reforms based on certain principles. The first of the important principles is the following. We want to increase the average length of careers. Today, we are one of the European countries where people retire most quickly: 60 years for men and 59 years for women. This is Mr Hedebouw's first lie: you and your activists give the impression that by 2030 everyone will go to the pension at 67. That's not reality. We are reforming the difficult trades. We had given the social partners two years to agree on the subject. They have not done so, which is why the government will be working on this issue in the coming weeks. First Fake News, so, Mr. Hedebouw. Secondly, we take responsibility. There is an ideological difference of opinion between extremism, on the one hand, and the other parties, on the other. We're thinking about the future. A better link must be established between the career, i.e. the work, and the pension amount. We assume this and realize it by bringing into force devices in a reasonable manner. You didn't mention the removal of the career unit. This is a reform that allows people to be rewarded more and to link work and the amount of the pension. Thirdly, we are convinced that we must move towards greater harmonisation of regimes in the future. Today there are differences between the regimes. These are the fruits of history. Gradually, not abruptly, by providing for transitional provisions at the time of the entry into force of the measures, we want to move towards harmonisation of the regimes. Finally, the last message helps to sow anxiety among the population, which I deeply regret. It's fun, Mrs. Temmerman. You're telling me there's anxiety in the population. Fatally, since you spend your time giving the impression that we are sabbing in the amount of current pensions. Third Fake News. So look at the figures for minimum pension decisions. In practice, the pension of an individual employee has increased by EUR 97 per month over the past three years; that of an independent person has increased by EUR 160 per month. No cuts in the amount of pensions! I have listened carefully today and in the past to the various messages and opinions of the extreme left-wing parties. I've never heard a credible proposal. We take on our responsibilities. They are in a strategy of slogans, we are in a logic of decisions and arbitration.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-21-54-plenair-ip208x.u44	Mr. Prime Minister, this is really unlikely. You have now said three or four things that were not announced in the demonstration. Nowhere! Do you know what fake news is? What you just said. The reality is that in the future, someone who starts working on 18 years and who becomes unemployed after more than 45 years, i.e. at the end of his career, will have less pension than someone who has started working on 20 years and also has a career of 45 years. That is the reality. And some examples of fake news, Prime Minister. Who said in his election programme that the age would not be increased to 67 years? Who? You, Prime Minister. You said that. Who said during the elections that they would never form a coalition with the N-VA? You, Prime Minister. Who said at the beginning of this legislature that there would be no index jump during this legislature? You, Prime Minister. Before accusing others of spreading fake news, you should consider what you have said.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-21-54-plenair-ip208x.u45	Prime Minister, it is clear that we do not agree at the ideological level. I assume that a pension of 1 200 euros, whereas the average cost in Belgium to live in a nursing home amounts to 1 600 euros, that is not the case! This cannot continue in this way! This is where our political differences lie. On the other hand, you said that the opposition and the workers' representatives had lied. Today, you are unable to prove it. We never said that everyone had to work until they were 67 years old. Not at all! The situation is already quite serious like this without any further exaggeration. People already suffer enough! On the other hand, stop pretending that no one will be working until the age of 67; otherwise you will have to explain to us why you are making us pass this law! You make us pass this law because people will have to work to that end. Prime Minister, if you hope to break the debate by brandishing the argument of the fake news, or of populism, if you really think that the debate will stop because, intellectually, you are no longer able to put forward numerical arguments, you are wrong! For people, this reform is not just a matter of numbers. They are in reality: mypension.be is a reality that tells citizens the age at which they will be able to retire and the insufficient money they will receive. I tell you, Prime Minister, and you feel it, the anger of the citizens is deep, and yet no one has seen this demonstration come. Everyone thought it was won! Well, no! The movement will continue and, I tell you, I feel it, we will not retreat!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-21-54-plenair-ip208x.u46	Mr Prime Minister, last Monday the Ronse City Council adopted a motion on the abolition of facilities. I'm Ronsenaar and I'm very proud of that. Ronse is a beautiful city. It is the pearl of the Flemish Ardennes. Unfortunately, that city was poisoned by facilities. They make it difficult and prevent integration. Those roads are heavy on the city greenhouse. Making sure Ronse can't fusion. Moreover, a lack of knowledge of Dutch is often an obstacle to obtaining opportunities in education or in the labour market. The motion was approved by the board majority in Ronse: the cartel CD&V and Groen, Open Vld and the N-VA and supported in the opposition by the Flemish Interest. CD&V, Open Vld and the N-VA are just the partners in the government. What will they do? Will they drop the local departments now? The Minister of the Interior, in order to wallow his responsibility, to wash his hands in innocence in the files of the police zones, always says that it must have been worn from the bottom up. The abolition of facilities is now being carried from the bottom up, by the city council representing all Ronsenaars, including the French-speaking ones. My group has already tabled a legislative proposal. We know a party that has already abandoned its local department. The N-VA responds by stating that the requirement in the motion to abolish the facilities is wishful thinking. A so-called V party that wants to maintain the facilities, that's surrealism! You must ask yourself serious questions about the V in your name. I think it is not for Flanders but for the freezer compartment, gentlemen and ladies of the N-VA. It's not the first time Ronse has directed a letter to the Prime Minister. This also happened in 2008, to Prime Minister Leterme at the time. The Ronsenaars want to get rid of the facilities. They're asking you now. What will you do? Will you do the same as Yves Leterme in 2008? Are you going to sign off on crooked mesh?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-21-54-plenair-ip208x.u47	Mr Vuye, first of all, for the sake of clarity, I did not receive the letter addressed to Mr Leterme in 2008. Secondly, I have not yet received the letter we are discussing. If that were the case, I would certainly offer an answer. You know our coalition agreement. We have decided to focus on socio-economic reforms and security. Federal elections are scheduled for 2019. This will give all parties the opportunity to defend their opinion and to present their vision for the future of our country to the electorate. Once again, our coalition agreement is clear: it is not intended to introduce institutional reform in this legislature.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-21-54-plenair-ip208x.u48	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your reply. At least I handed you the city council motion. We at Vuye & Wouters will continue with our bill. If we do not get support from the N-VA, Open Vld and CD&V, what will those local departments be disappointed! They will have known, there in Ronse, if they drop the local departments. And the Runners will have known, and they will be deceived. You have already heard this: the door of the Community freezer remains closed, and the key keeper of that door is now going out. I will give the Ronsenaars who will be deceived a tip: do it yourself, remove the facilities yourself! Do like the mayors of Brussels, they do the language law on their boots! They just don't apply it! I'll give you one number. Of all contractual decisions in the Brussels municipalities, 90% are in breach of the language law. Well, why shouldn't the Ronsenaars like what the Brusselsians like? Why should the Ronsenaars not be allowed to ignore the language law, if this has been done in Brussels for decades? So I ask my fellow citymen: do as the Brussels people do. What the Brusselsians can do, so can we, Ronsenaars. In fact, we can do much better.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-21-54-plenair-ip208x.u49	I wish the Prime Minister a pleasant continuation of his birthday. It is also Mr Top's birthday, is said here. There are other colleagues' birthdays, but because they are not there, we will not mention them.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-21-54-plenair-ip208x.u50	Mr Prime Minister, I wish you, of course, a happy birthday and a good continuation. I see you packing up, but there will be a debate on our agenda about the division in your government. So I absolutely want to invite you to be there for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-21-54-plenair-ip208x.u51	The prime minister will be around. We still have some work to do. I'll make sure the government is there.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-21-54-plenair-ip208x.u52	Prime Minister, I am also sorry that you are confronted with dissident government members during your birthday. I'd like you to attend the debate later.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-21-54-plenair-ip208x.u53	Mr Calvo, that will be all right, you can rest assured.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-21-54-plenair-ip208x.u54	Mr President, I would just like to recall the parliamentary rules. The government will be represented at every moment. It is always open to the opposition or the parliament to request the presence of a minister by a vote. (Protests from Mr Calvo)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-21-54-plenair-ip208x.u55	Mr Calvo, we will not have that discussion. The Prime Minister merely reminded us of the Rules of Procedure. Point final.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-21-54-plenair-ip208x.u56	Mr President, I too wish the Prime Minister a happy birthday: Herzliche Glückwünsche, bon anniversaire.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-21-54-plenair-ip208x.u57	And now you begin.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-21-54-plenair-ip208x.u58	Mr President, I shall now begin with my question, if I may. Mr Minister, there has been a great deal to do in recent times about the growth of the so-called e-commerce or parcel service economy that worries and frustrates our own middlemen and our own manufacturing economy. But, Minister, not only is this an important issue on which we must have a very in-depth debate, because following the growth of e-commerce or parcel service economy, two members of your majority have taken the opportunity to launch another attack on our law on port labour. They launched the proposal that e-commerce or parcel service activities should also be carried out by non-approved port workers within the port areas. We both know the law on port work very well. It will be a mantra of mine and I hope it will be yours too: within the port area or within the port areas, port labour can only be carried out by authorized port workers. Europe has already tried to launch an attack on that law in the past, but it has failed, partly because of your constructive institution in this area. Now two members of your majority are trying to re-attack it through a back door. Mr President, I have been a Member of Parliament for 20 years. So I am 'parliamentaryist' enough to respect the self-righteousness of my colleagues. Anyone can make proposals that will be judged according to their merits here in the hemisphere, but also on the ground. However, I am also a politician enough to know that in the dossier there may be a hair in the butter. I would therefore like to know the following. When two members of your majority make such a proposal, what is your government's position? Is your government and is your majority prepared to undermine the law on port work through the back door of so-called e-commerce?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-21-54-plenair-ip208x.u59	Mr President, Mr Penris, you have been following this dossier for many years, and you know that after social dialogue we have reached an agreement and Europe has stopped its default. This agreement with Europe is now being implemented further. For example, a collective agreement was concluded on the evaluation of the shift system on 12 December in the Joint Committee. There is the agreed solidarity contribution on which the agreements were made on 12 December. At Flemish level, the Flemish Government and the VDAB have also started work on quality criteria to bring the training of port workers to a successful conclusion as soon as possible. Candidate port workers have already applied to start training to be recruited outside the pool. In short, the social partners have not only been prepared to conclude an agreement, but also to further implement it, and I would like to thank them once again. As you say, initiatives have been taken. Everyone, especially Members of Parliament, is allowed to take initiatives, but the initiative that has been taken has caused some commotion on the part of the social partners. There was even a threat of strikes at some point. We have been in contact with both employers and employees and have said that through social dialogue we want to solve this problem, the logistics services in the port, and not by one-sided legislative initiatives that cause people a great deal of concern. On the basis of these contacts and the commitment we want to resolve this through social dialogue, I have committed myself to further looking at logistics in the port sector and e-commerce with the social partners. After all, the issue of Europe's default has shown that results can be achieved with social dialogue and that things are being carried out.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-21-54-plenair-ip208x.u60	Mr President, Minister, I do not think there is any port worker who does not like to pack and unpack lingerie, on the contrary, but I do not think this should be the vocation of port workers. Port work must be carried out within port areas, i.e. bulk loading. There is also room for our manufacturing industry, as is certainly the case in Antwerp and Ghent. I find the attack by the two fellow Members on the port labour law inappropriate. They must also be aware that the Major Act guarantees more than 50 years of social peace. It is also the guarantee that we now have a selection of port workers who envy us all the world. It ensures that we are and remain the strongest from Hamburg to Le Havre. Mr Lachaert, I am particularly looking forward to what you will do, because you will start with something you do not know where it will end up.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-21-54-plenair-ip208x.u61	Mr President, Mr Deputy Prime Minister, in recent days, the press has reported your willingness to abolish the waiting period, which precedes that of the balances: December, for the balances of January, and June, for the balances of July. During this period of time, the distinctions are, of course, strictly prohibited. As a result, the prices displayed during the waiting period will then allow the consumer to compare them with those which are displayed during the balances and to see if a discount is applied. However, during the same period, joint sales are permitted. In this way, the consumer can benefit from a rebate when he buys several items in the same store. It is also important to note that traders are extremely attached to this waiting period. Moreover, the representatives of the sector expressed their support for its continuation, although you might wish to delete it. The disappearance of the waiting period would certainly lead to the disappearance of the balances. Indeed, in this case we could imagine that the rebates would be granted all year round. Of course, small traders would not be able to engage in such sales practices and would find themselves even more deprived in the face of large areas. Therefore, Minister, I would like to know the outline of your project. How do you intend to counter possible abuses? Have you consulted the distribution sector and its various representative organizations? Finally, what would be the economic impact of removing the waiting period?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-21-54-plenair-ip208x.u62	Minister, ladies and gentlemen, many consumers are looking forward to 3 January for a reason. I too grew up knowing that from January, after New Year's Eve, there are solders. Even in the summer, that's true. In June there are no solders yet. Only when the summer really starts will there be solders. We have grown up knowing that these solders are coming, that there are no discounts before that solder period and that there should be no price reductions. I also know, I see it everywhere in the shops, that in the meantime discounts are being posted. A number of reductions are already granted through whispering and tying. However, the barrier period was once introduced for a reason. One of the reasons and objectives of the barrier period was to ensure fair competition between small, local traders and large companies and larger chains. One of the reasons was that such a piece of protection could be offered to the local trader, so that he would not be faced with large discounts and price reductions all year round, which would put even more pressure on his small margins. Is it true, Minister, that consideration is being given to abolishing the barrier period? If so, what are the reasons for this? I know that Europe does not always agree with this period, but should we actually consider abolishing it? We know that trade, including local trade, is even more under pressure to invest in e-commerce, among other things. Let us ensure that we are not forced to allow discounts all year round. Let us be honest, if there are discounts all year round, the charm of the solders is gone for many consumers. It would not benefit consumers, nor the local trader. How can we avoid giving discounts throughout the year and that there would be solders all year round? Because that doesn't benefit anyone.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-21-54-plenair-ip208x.u63	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Friart, Mrs Smaers, it is true that I have proposed to abolish the waiting period, while maintaining the period of the balances. I would like to make three arguments as to why maintaining the solder period on the one hand and abolishing the barrier period on the other is a proposal which I would like to discuss further. Firstly, I have a legal argument to abolish the barrier period. According to the case-law, the Belgian rules governing the period of prohibition are contrary to European rules, in particular to the Directive on unfair commercial practices vis-à-vis consumers. There's a judgment of the court of appeal. There was an amendment to the law in 2010, but there is still a legal controversy as to whether the barrier period is in line with European law. Secondly, the barrier period applies only to three sectors: clothing, shoes and leather goods. All other sectors have been allowed to announce price reductions since 2010 during the barrier period. It is therefore doubtful whether major problems have arisen in these other sectors after the barrier period has been abolished. Is the maintenance of the barrier period for three sectors not discriminatory with respect to the other sectors? Thirdly, I agree with you that the barrier period is being massively evaded. There are self-employed organisations who, on the one hand, ask to maintain the barrier period, but on the other hand also point to the massive avoidance of whispering solders and private sales. There are therefore three arguments for abolishing the barrier period, while maintaining the solder period. Accompanying measures include the introduction of stricter penalties for breach of the rules on price promotion. We will organise more monitoring. The Economic Inspectorate has already increased the number of controls in the area of price promotion and price indication. We will also draw up guidelines so that every trader is well informed. I note that, at some point, certain organisations have agreed to adjust the deadline. Afterwards, there was a change of opinion and it turned out that an adjustment could not be accepted. Other organisations, which were initially negative, are now positive. It is therefore not easy to draw a line. As always, I will consult the professional organizations and my colleague, Mr Ducarme, who is responsible for this matter. A great deal will happen in January and we will have a lot of votes and I hope that we can reach a conclusion on the January deadline.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-21-54-plenair-ip208x.u64	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your answers. I understand that this waiting period concerns three sectors. But they are still fashion-related sectors that are subject to some obsolescence, which must be taken into account. It is also necessary to be aware that this waiting period conditions the period of sales, which is important for traders; indeed, it is at that time that they can liquidate their stock and renew their assortment. This is necessary to run their working capital. At the same time, account must be taken of the need for an appropriate balance between the interests of trade, particularly small trade, and the interests of consumers. In any case, minister, you should know that my group and I will continue to pay attention to the issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-21-54-plenair-ip208x.u65	Mr President, Minister, I would like to ask you to keep an eye on the initial objective of the barrier period. I would be sorry if the barrier period had to be lifted, but if so, I would like to ask that consultations be held with the trade organisations, that effective monitoring be carried out and that checks be carried out so that we do not get solders all year round. I would also like to ask that the price reductions and reductions are also checked during the solder period and that we retain the solders on which we are a little nostalgic.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-21-54-plenair-ip208x.u66	Mr Deputy Prime Minister, there has been a lot to do in recent weeks about the situation in Spain. There are elections there today. Is Spain a rule of law or not? There were rather contradictory views on this issue on several banks. It is an EU Member State, and Poland is also an EU Member State. On behalf of my group, I am very concerned about the situation in Poland, a country where the government is not too close to the separation of powers, where the Constitutional Court has practically been sent all the way home and no legislative review can be carried out. The principles of the separation of powers and of the independence of the judiciary are being put to the test. The European Commission would now take action with the application of Article 7. That is a kind of institutional atomic bomb: one wants to take away Poland's money or vote. But are we not waiting too long for this, which often makes the penalty too heavy, Minister? Would it not be better to use a sort of independent panel to review fundamental principles in the Member States of the European Union, as is the case with the budget? After all, there is an annual report on the budget by experts from the European Union who are examining how the budgetary situation is evolving in the Member States. This is about respect for human rights, respect for democracy, respect for the rule of law. If such a review were to be carried out on an annual basis, it would prevent a situation from escalating and etching for many years, after which a very severe sanction would often have to be imposed. You are in favour of such a procedure, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. What is the evolution of these instruments in the European context? Are we moving forward with that?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-21-54-plenair-ip208x.u67	Mr Deputy Prime Minister, the decision of the European Commission to activate the Article 7 procedure of the Treaty is a major political event, which concerns the future of all the peoples who make up the European Union. What is at stake is nothing less than the confidence that citizens can have in this construction. This construction cannot be merely an economic market or a legal code, but must be a territory where the ethical values that underpin democracy must permeate all legislative texts. So, when we think of Poland's recent history, its fierce struggle to join the freedom camp, with personalities like Lech Walesa, or when we read the Nobel Prize for Literature Czeslaw Milosz, author of the poem "Children of Europe", we are stunned to see Poland back on the path of dictatorship. Poland is a huge European country whose history, culture and population – 38 million people – have their full place in the European Union. All democrats hope that the open procedure will leave Europe and perhaps make it possible to return to the path of dialogue. But, of course, Europe cannot backtrack the rule of law or the necessary separation of powers. Mr Deputy Prime Minister, what will be Belgium's vote in the Council of the European Union? What recommendations do you want for Poland? Are you in favour of making European credits conditional on respect for the founding principles of the European Union? How do you intend to relaunch your excellent proposal for a regular review of respect for democratic principles in all Member States?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-21-54-plenair-ip208x.u68	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, after two years of negotiations with Poland, the European Commission has invoked Article 7, the so-called nuclear option. This action may lead to the loss of the right to vote of Poland in Europe. Colleagues, N-VA is indeed in favour of a strong subsidiarity, for a Europe built from below. We are indeed in favour of full competence of the European Member States. However, because Poland's reforms ignore an essential foundation of democracy, namely the separation of powers, and because Poland is undermining its own judiciary, the N-VA Group in the case in question supports the invocation of Article 7. We are doing this here, but our Members of the European Parliament have also approved this vocation. Why do we do that? We do this because we are consistent. We want to defend democratic values consistently, not only abroad, such as Congo and Burundi, but also within the European Union, which is not only a Union of pennies but also of standards and values. Mr Minister, unfortunately the mechanism is already falling short. It's slightly out of line with its purpose. The Polish Government, strengthened by the Hungarian veto, will not accept this invocation. This may also lead to a lack of unanimity in order to impose sanctions. That is why I have the following questions. Firstly, how do you think we can come up with a procedure that is more effective and more efficient? Secondly, how can we not let go of the message from the 438 Members of the European Parliament who approved the call for Article 7? I look forward to your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-21-54-plenair-ip208x.u69	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make three points. Firstly, with regard to Poland, it is very important to know that there has been a dialogue between the European Commission and Poland for almost three years and at least for more than two years. There have already been four sets of recommendations from the European Commission on the independence of justice in Poland. So far, Poland has not really moved anything, to move in a different direction. Article 7 is a very difficult procedure. You know, however, that there must be approval from the European Parliament, but also from four fifths of the members of the European Council, which will not be so easy. I hope that it will be possible to enter into a dialogue with Poland. As has been said, Poland is a very large State in the European Union, with which we wish to establish a dialogue. From the outset, through my voice, Belgium has supported the Commission's approach in the General Affairs Council. We'll continue. The second element concerns a series of other concerns. A few years ago, we had discussions about Hungary in the General Affairs Council. There were presidential elections in Austria a few months ago. In many countries, we saw strong progress from the extreme left or right in the Netherlands, France, Germany and now Austria with an extreme right-wing party in the new government. We also fear future decisions in Austria. Today, we will respond with a number of European countries with regard to Romania where there is also a fear of new legislation on the independence of justice. So there's a lot to fear. Thirdly, I would like to thank the three colleagues for their support. For almost two years, since February 2016, I have been calling for a new mechanism at European level, such as for the budget, Mr Dewael or the Maastricht criteria. Why should a similar check not be possible in relation to the Copenhagen criteria? This means a political evaluation in the 28 following the Brexit 27 European countries. That would happen in Belgium, not only in Poland, Hungary, Romania, but also here. Why? I think this is necessary. Europe is a Europe of values. We are always talking about democracy, the rule of law and human rights in every hemisphere. However, it will be easier to talk about this outside Europe if there is such control within the European Union. I expect that we will be able to come back to this debate in 2018. This is planned both in the General Affairs Council and in the framework of the European Commission's programme for next year. For the moment, I have obtained the support of half of the European states, of the 28 – this is not so bad – and of most of the democratic groups in the European Parliament. I really believe that we must all fight to ensure that the economic situation in all our countries is kept under control. That's indispensable. I served as Minister of Finance. It is essential that economic criteria and budgets are monitored. But in all the Member States of the Union, without waiting for a tragedy in Hungary, Poland or elsewhere, the values that underpin the European Union must be monitored: respect for the rule of law, the independence of justice, freedom of opinion, freedom of the press and human rights. I believe that it is necessary to do so, and I hope that this will be possible before the next European elections. 2018 will be a very important year in this respect. We will then be able to have an open debate on the values in all the European Member States.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-21-54-plenair-ip208x.u70	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. I would say, whoever is free from sin, cast the first stone. Our European Union is the bearer of a number of fundamental values. We must defend it as a union against the rest of the world. However, I would like to say once again that this does not relieve us of the duty to systematically monitor the respect of these principles in our own Member States. Minister, I remember the year 2000 with the elections in Austria. Then our country may have been guilty of a bit of overacting. Each government must be judged on the basis of its actions. One does not have to wait until it really escalates to come up with a very heavy instrument like Article 7. We should, on an annual basis, periodically, actually screen all Member States for respect for these values, whether it be Spain, Hungary, Romania, Poland or our own country. Let's do that. In this way, we can strengthen those principles, which we are all trying to serve.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-21-54-plenair-ip208x.u71	Minister, thank you for your answers. When the countries of Eastern Europe joined the European Union, we talked about enlargement. We should have talked about reunification for all these countries, as they also have legitimacy to form the European Union. However, it is true that after decades of communist dictatorship, the democratic reflex in these countries may not be as prevalent as in the countries of Western Europe. That is why, I think, the mechanism that you are defending from annual control is an excellent response that will allow, as Mr Dewael has said, to control countries whose policies would lead to disaster by installing a dictatorial state. The European Union is embodying more and more values throughout the world by representing a place of high democratic values and must demonstrate it within its borders.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-21-54-plenair-ip208x.u72	Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, continuous systematic monitoring of all the Member States seems to me to be a good approach and I am underlining all the Member States. We must give this recommendation not only to Poland, but also to the European Commission itself. It would be much more credible, with Mr Timmermans in its head, if it did not use a double standard. The fact that it denounces the violation of fundamental rights in Poland, but does not mention the violation of the democratic rights of Catalans, means that it is working with double standards and weights. In short, anyone who is silent about Catalonia has no right to speak about Poland either.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-21-54-plenair-ip208x.u73	Mr President, Minister, since the beginning of the legislature, I have been asking you repeatedly about the future of the Courthouse in Tournai. For a long time, my concerns have not been appeased. About ten years ago, we were announced mountains and wonders about the future courthouse. But since then, I have mostly heard of rationalization, savings and budget cuts. In 2009, like Saint-Nicolas, Mr. Reynders, present here, announced with Mr. De Clerck, during a visit to the prison in Tournai, that the future courthouse was soon to be built. They planned ten years to achieve this. Almost ten years later, nothing remains and I keep questioning you without a concrete answer. Finally, last Sunday, I heard you say on television that this commitment was not going to remain a dead letter and that a new courthouse could be erected in Tournai. The Justice Palace of Tournai, Minister, is something important for the Tournaisians, but also for the inhabitants of Ath, Lessines, Leuze, Estampuis, Mouscron, etc. Do you confirm this good news? Where would this new courthouse be located? You talked about a compact courthouse. What do you mean by that? When can we expect a construction site to be launched? When can we fix the move of magistrates to a building worthy of justice in Tournai?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-21-54-plenair-ip208x.u74	Mr Delannois, you know that I am in constant contact with the Montoise and Tournaisian judiciary on matters of division of business and buildings. I am very interested in the judicial district of Hainaut. It is a large district of 1.2 million inhabitants and one of the largest areas in our country. The idea that I launched on October 25 - not on the occasion of the RTL program - is the creation of a central court square per borough. In English, it's a back office. In the long run, the other places of justice could be content with a front office, a compact building as you call it, from 1,500 to 2,000 m2, in which all the functions of justice could be exercised without everything being there. It seems to me that the city of Tournai could be considered for this type of pilot project. For it is true that Tournai is far away and benefits from several buildings rented or owned, quite expensive and ineffective, as well as from an old palace that no longer meets the demands of our times. It is in this sense that I will continue the talks, but for the moment I am only engaging myself, because this response has been given to me while I am still in permanent talks with the judiciary in this district.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-21-54-plenair-ip208x.u75	Minister, thank you very much for your answer. You're talking about frequent contacts. I know you're holding on to it. You recognize that Hainaut is very important. I hear that the city of Tournai could be the subject of a pilot project. I am, of course, delighted with your answers. Mr. Reynders played in Saint-Nicolas for ten years and we didn't get a present. I was a little disappointed. If tomorrow you're our Santa Claus, and you're honouring your commitments, I thank you already.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-21-54-plenair-ip208x.u76	Mr President, Minister, young people who are being mowed off the road and lose their lives will never get used to it. In addition, last year out of the 4 426 injuries, the killer committed a hit-and-run. Minister, we support you and the government when you want to tackle more severely perpetrators of serious traffic offences by punishing them more severely. However, what parents of crashed children ask time and time again is that everything should be done so that others would be spared this heavy fate, which they often carry bravely. This means that every effort must be made to prevent recurrence. It was therefore sad to find that the driver who drove Miss Govaert off the road, before he could be convicted of an appeal, again caused a serious traffic accident and committed a hit-and-run. Minister, we are counting on you. In addition to the legal initiative and the amendment of our criminal law, we expect you to do other things. That is why I am asking you the following questions, in the hope that you will answer them positively. Firstly, is it possible that you may instruct the prosecutors to deal with such cases as a matter of priority, not within the year, but immediately, so that the perpetrators of such serious acts can be quickly withdrawn from circulation? Secondly, what do you do when the perpetrator says foert to the police judge, says foert to the law, and says foert to a verdict that prohibits him from driving? Would it be better for you to have control over the decay to steer? Finally, can you instruct the prosecutors that if the criminal investigation reveals that a person is not fit, psychologically or physically, to keep the steering wheel, that right to steer is denied him immediately?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-21-54-plenair-ip208x.u77	Mr President, Mrs Van Cauter, I naturally share your deep concern. The person concerned was sentenced to three years' imprisonment and one month's delay and a ten-year driving ban. But even before that judgment was delivered, and after it had been argued, he reiterated on 10 November, not technically, but in the factual sense of the word. Of course, the judge ruling on these new facts will be able to take account of the fact that there are a number of very burdensome precedents. But that is his exclusive competence, because, once again, it is not a technical recidivism. You ask for instructions from the prosecutors on prioritising appeal because the appeal of course suspends the sentence. Agreed. I'll insist. You also ask for instructions to obtain and request more quickly cases such as driving bans in the event of disability. In any case, I would also like to contribute to this. By the way, I would like to point out that, in January, we will deal with Mr Bellot's and myself's draft law in the relevant committees, with all the repetitions in case there is no driving licence, in case there is a driving ban, if there is, as you say, real fort behaviour. However, you have heard correctly, in this case a prison sentence of three years and a month was imposed with delay. That delay cannot be withdrawn because there is no technical repetition. It is not that simple, unless we would really generalize the alcohol lock and install it in every vehicle, to get people who have been drinking from the wheel of any car. However, we are not going to do that. I am personally in favour of a large forfeiture, including of borrowed vehicles. These are, of course, matters on which we must agree politically when discussing Mr Bellot's draft law and myself.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-21-54-plenair-ip208x.u78	Minister, we are aware that the legislative initiative has indeed been taken to tackle the perpetrators of serious traffic offences more strictly. In addition, today you are sending out an additional signal that we must make changes not only in law but also in practice. This means immediately fixing in degree of appeal, and getting the unfitness determined, checked and monitored by the prosecutors. This means that not only under the law but also in practice, serious traffic offences and deaths can be avoided.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-21-54-plenair-ip208x.u79	Ladies and gentlemen, I have heard that our colleagues in the Committee on Justice have just finished. In order to give them the opportunity to come here, I will suspend the sitting for about ten minutes. The meeting is adjourned. The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-21-54-plenair-ip208x.u80	The sitting has resumed. The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-21-54-plenair-ip208x.u81	Ladies and gentlemen, the order of business which I received during the course of the oral questions, in particular at 3.26 p.m., is on the agenda. Another point of order was tabled at 3.58 p.m. It calls for the presence of the Prime Minister. In accordance with the logic of things, we must, of course, first talk about the presence of the Prime Minister and then about the motion as I read them during the oral questions. The Rules of Procedure provide that the authors and then any political group may express themselves on this matter for five minutes.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-21-54-plenair-ip208x.u82	Mr President, I understand the order you are proposing, which is logical. Having said that, I will be very brief on the first motion that calls for the presence of the Prime Minister. Indeed, what matters to us is the second motion on the substance, on the debate. My colleague, Kristof Calvo, will speak in the gallery just now to explain, on behalf of Ecolo and Groen, the stakes of this second motion. We hope that this debate can take place not only in the presence of the Minister of Justice, but also in the presence of the Prime Minister. Why? Because the issue at the centre of the debate today is a matter of government policy. While we were talking in this chamber, while the Prime Minister answered questions from parliamentarians of the majority and the opposition, the Secretary of State made statements outside that questioned Mr. Michel's remarks. That is why we would like the Prime Minister to be present during the debate on the motion that we have tabled on asylum policy and on the ability to no longer return to Sudan in the light of the current situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-21-54-plenair-ip208x.u83	Is anyone else asking to speak on the application for the Prime Minister's presence?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-21-54-plenair-ip208x.u84	Thank you, Mr. President. I would like to say very briefly that we obviously support the request of our colleagues at Ecolo-Groen, since it is obviously inconceivable that the government should not say the same thing, whether it is here in this House or downstairs in front of television cameras. We therefore provide our support.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-21-54-plenair-ip208x.u85	Minister, if I had known about this motion, I would have asked to co-sign it. I therefore fully endorse the approach taken by Ecolo-Groen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-21-54-plenair-ip208x.u86	As far as I can see, there are no other Members asking to speak. In that case, we must, in the usual way, sit and stand up, give our opinion on the motion tabled on the presence of the Prime Minister in the debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-21-54-plenair-ip208x.u87	In the meantime, a third motion has been tabled by Mr Dewael, Mr Clarinval, Mr De Roover and Mr Verherstraeten, which reads as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the Prime Minister's reply to questions on the problems of the Maximilian Park and the repatriation of Sudanese people, asks the government to implement these measures and moves to the order of the day." Who is asking for the floor on order? I would remind you of the Rules of Procedure. The speaker has five minutes.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-21-54-plenair-ip208x.u88	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, our group does not stand here every Thursday to defend the Prime Minister or to force a clear position, although there are many serious reasons for this on Thursdays. We only think that the reason for this is much greater today and that the stakes are much greater. Our group believes, and with us many people, that it is about something fundamental, that there is a very important political dimension and that we have talked about the division, the chaos in the majority. First of all, we are talking about a very fundamental thing, namely human rights. Mrs Smeyers, you have just spoken about rumors, about things that we still have to look into. Ladies and gentlemen, human rights violations in Sudan are not rumors; human rights violations in Sudan are a bitter reality. If Al-Bashir lands on Zaventem tomorrow, we'll have to arrest him. If Al-Bashir is anywhere near us, we have to take him to The Hague. That's what it's about. Mr Dewael, you have just rightly referred to purple-green. You said that our statements at the time, after the Austrian elections, might have been a bit overacting. Maybe. But that was a time when our country was a guide country in the field of human rights and had a belief in human rights. Today there has been confusion in that country about the most fundamental rights, about treaties written in the most difficult periods of our history. Today we work together with such a regime and invite secret agents, officials, of that regime to our offices. We leave people to their fate, political refugees, who do not even get an interpreter from us. It is quite clear to our group: it must be done that we have our laws, our democracy implemented by such a regime. Secondly, ladies and gentlemen, there is also an important political dimension. In our country, the political roles are not divided on the basis of popularity polls. It's not because Theo Francken is at the top of it, that Theo Francken has to be the one to be the one to be the one in our country. This is the second point I want to make today. Does the majority accept it, accepts CD&V, accepts Open Vld, that the Prime Minister today is explicitly contradicted in the most punitive terms by Theo Francken? I quote him just now in the VTM news: "The insinuations of our Prime Minister are absurd." Absurd, the opposition doesn't say that. We are today more lenient about the Prime Minister than his own Secretary of State. Theo Francken is angry; Calimero junior is angry. He complains that that is not possible, that it is not correct, that the Prime Minister is failing, that the Prime Minister is failing. That is the second point, ladies and gentlemen of the MR, that we are standing here today. We want to know who the prime minister is. Who's the numero uno anyway? Is it Theo Francken who decides, or is it Charles Michel? A third reason why we are standing here, ladies and gentlemen, is that we have had it with the squabble cabinet. Last week it was about the Energy Pact. Over the last few days, it's been about the Summer Agreement. As an opposition, we have almost forced the four leaders of the political groups to talk to each other over the last few days. And today there is the division of something fundamental: Sudan and human rights. Mr Lanjri wants a moratorium, now, without a deadline. The N-VA says: we shall see; there will certainly be no suspension, no moratorium. Mrs Smeyers states that this is not a government decision. I apologise, she says that it is a government decision that is sometimes difficult to follow; I was confused for a moment - and we need to know the truth about that. The invitation of Sudanese officials is, according to the N-VA, a government decision, while Mr Lanjri is also clearly sticulating that it was not a government decision at all. (Protests from Mrs Lanjri) Mr President, Mrs Lanjri wishes to speak. I have no problem with her interrupting me.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-21-54-plenair-ip208x.u89	No, Mr Calvo, carry on. Your time is running. We shall abide by the Rules of Procedure. There will be no discussion. Each group has the right to explain its position for five minutes.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-21-54-plenair-ip208x.u90	It's a personal fact.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-21-54-plenair-ip208x.u91	It's not a personal fact. Carry on, Mr Calvo.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-21-54-plenair-ip208x.u92	Mr President, it is a personal fact for me.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-21-54-plenair-ip208x.u93	I decide if it's a personal fact. In the meantime, your time is up. If you want, you may decide.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-21-54-plenair-ip208x.u94	Ladies and gentlemen, a third reason why we are here is because we have had enough of this hopeless division. Finally, I would like to say a few words about the N-VA and the double morale of the N-VA. Just now, Mr Luykx, in the debate on Poland, said that double standards cannot be applied when it comes to human rights. If Europe speaks of the Poles, Europe must also speak of the Catalans. I agree. My group and I have been very clear on the Catalan issue. Mr Luykx, the fact that double standards cannot be applied not only to people named Carles, but also to political refugees from Sudan. Colleagues from Open Vld and CD&V, I would like to call on you to approve our motion. The motion you have tabled is "Wiezhiewazhie"; it is not clear. Today we must be clear. Today Parliament must say that we will suspend that mission. Get rid of the N-VA deadline. We must suspend this mission, and until everything is clear, we will not send people back. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that unanimity from left to right here should be the norm. If it can't be unanimous, then we have to do it as democrats without the N-VA. Please approve our motion and give a clear signal!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-21-54-plenair-ip208x.u95	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, refusing to invite the Prime Minister to clarify the government's position on this matter speaks volumes about the lack of clarity and, above all, the desire to have a clear position and to provide clear answers. I asked earlier for a moratorium on evictions and for the Sudanese to leave Dublin. No answer! This blurry is the weakness of Prime Minister Charles Michel. It is the umpteenth demonstration, after the Energy Pact, after the recovery project, that it is the N-VA that runs this country. We had proof of that earlier. While the Prime Minister was giving answers here, he was being undressed once again by Mr Franken at the very end of the debate!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-21-54-plenair-ip208x.u96	Mr President, I understand that the majority did not want the Prime Minister to come here. He came, but I don't think he dares to come back. [[Brouhahaha]] Let him come! When a prime minister comes to speak here and in the following minutes, a secretary of state, in front of the media, finds the words of his prime minister absurd... [[Brouhahaha]] This is not the first time, colleagues. It's become a fashion in this government. The Prime Minister spoke and then the N-VA beheaded his words. But the other times, there was a little decency, a few days passed, a few hours. Today, no! The Prime Minister spoke in the Chamber and the Secretary of State, in the following moments, made a major statement to the media. Your government is torn today, and I understand that you are so embarrassed at the corners. The tear in the government shows that you are no longer in a position to manage. Let the Prime Minister come here to speak! More fundamentally, the issue we are discussing is very serious. We had already spoken in his time. You yourself did not wish, despite the agreement with a key selfie between the Secretary of State and the Ambassador of Sudan, written guarantees. Nothing! You decided on a mission with a country, with a dictatorship, even though you didn't find it interesting to put beacons in it. To put guarantees in it. To give the least interest to respect for human rights! So here, today, the Prime Minister came to speak. And if there is confirmation of the facts, confirmation of the torture of the Sudanese who have been expelled, it is obviously extremely serious! And the situation, ladies and gentlemen, is serious enough that all the democrats, at some point, will speak out in a clear, strong way. That for all democrats, at some point, to defend values. The situation is serious enough for all democrats to transcend political labels, transcend politics and forcefully affirm that human rights must be respected. That, indeed, this mission with the Sudan cannot continue and that this policy of expulsion cannot, at some point, continue even though extremely serious facts have been highlighted. Symbolically, you have to make a choice. Either you are on the democrats' side and you agree to vote on a motion that clearly suspends this policy of arrangements between friends with this dictatorship that is Sudan; or, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, you deny democracy and values as important as respect for human rights, saying: "We put this aside and move on to the agenda." Democrats, wake up! Wake up today or you'll never do it again!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-21-54-plenair-ip208x.u97	Ladies and gentlemen, the PTB-GO! supports the motion of the Ecolo-Groen Group. It seems to me that the situation is quite serious. We were already in the habit of seeing the Prime Minister reframe his Secretary of State repeatedly. But today, another step has been taken: the Secretary of State is reshaping the Prime Minister! This is crazy! The Prime Minister has barely finished talking that he is contradicted in front of the cameras by his Secretary of State saying that this is not his position at all. The Ecolo-Groen Group is asking for transparency. He asked for the choices to be made. Let us vote to see whether or not we will continue to send people back to this dictatorship. That's all that's asked for! Colleagues, what is the problem? Take your position! Or you're ashamed! If that's the case, you're right. You're right to be ashamed. What's happening now is bad. We will not dare to vote on the suspension, knowing that human rights are not respected there, knowing that a party will say five minutes later: no, we are not going to do that. Ladies and gentlemen, for democracy and human rights, I propose that you vote on this motion by the colleagues of Groen and Ecolo. I propose that you vote, in your soul and conscience, on expulsions so that we know whether or not they will continue.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-21-54-plenair-ip208x.u98	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this is about human rights. It's not about a building the government has to buy or sell. It's about human rights. You are right to say that it is a difficult debate, Mrs Smeyers. When the debate took place, the opposition also warned about the conditions in Sudan and how people are being treated there. I had a debate this morning with Mr Van Rompuy, who was very keen on his coalition partner. He thought it was outrageous and outrageous. He felt that it was absolutely impossible and that this really was the policy of the N-VA alone and not the policy of this government. I heard Mrs. Smeyers today. She says, if those people wanted protection, they should have applied. They didn't do that, so... she didn't just say, "Your own fault, big bump, it's not our responsibility." The Prime Minister made it clear that Article 3 on human rights is important to him. I have heard Mrs Lanjri say that it is important for her too. I do not wish to discuss with you whether this is a decision of the government or of the Secretary of State alone. It is a fact that your party is also part of this government. Either you say it's the N-VA alone. That means that you are in this government and you have nothing to say and that you should sit on this side of the Half-Round to fight with us. Either you say today: we really mean it. If you really think it is important, today you will show that you want that suspension to happen until real guarantees are built in. The fact that the argument is being used today that it is just a rumor, that it has not yet been proven to be true, is, in my view, a very weak excuse. You should have stood here today and said that when you decided to send those people back, you had built in guarantees 1, 2, 3 and 4. I haven't heard any of those terms. There weren't any. It may be a false rumor. Well, ladies and gentlemen, when it comes to human rights and a country in which there must be a ring of bells - there may be some truth in that news - you should not say that you do not know whether it is true or not. Really, I'd be ashamed in your place. I would be ashamed in your place if you did not decide today on a suspension until there are real conditions and those people are protected, regardless of whether they are applying or not.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-21-54-plenair-ip208x.u99	Mr President, human rights are also very important to my group. It's even a subject I've been teaching myself for over 10 years. The ban on torture is clearly fundamental. Torture is one of the most degrading acts. Sudan is a problem country. In any case, caution should be exercised. The motion doesn't ask for the identification mission to end. She's asking for its suspension. I believe that suspension can be a useful matter. In the meantime, a thorough investigation can be carried out in order to find out what actually happened there. Is this about rumors or false statements or have there been violations? Such an investigation really forces itself when it comes to the prohibition of torture. My group will therefore support the motion tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-21-54-plenair-ip208x.u100	Mr President, human rights must be respected everywhere. Here, however, there is a risk that they will not be. I will therefore support this motion, but I would like to make sure that the information that comes to us is true. Indeed, in the past, we have had some information about, in particular, the situation in Aleppo, Syria, which, in the end, was inaccurate. But in this case, knowing the country, knowing that there is a risk of non-compliance with human rights, I will support the motion tabled by Ecolo-Groen.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-21-54-plenair-ip208x.u101	You were also here earlier when we heard the Prime Minister. Now, in a motion for a resolution, you are asking for a vote on the suspension of repatriations. It is true that we said that yesterday, that the Prime Minister said so and just repeated it. More than that, it's been in all the journals, I've seen on several websites that the repatriations are suspended for as long as the investigation lasts. Mrs Kitir and others, that is what we want to underline and approve with our motion, which goes on. We want to implement all the measures announced by the Prime Minister. This is about a thorough and independent investigation into what happened, so possible human rights violations. This is about the suspension of repatriations as long as the investigation is under way, with the time needed to do so. This is also about what he said, that Article 3 of the ECHR is sacred. We shall therefore go beyond the motion you have tabled. We want everything the Prime Minister has said to be implemented. If you're wise, you'll agree to our motion.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-21-54-plenair-ip208x.u102	Mr President, on behalf of the majority, I would like to say three things. First, the Prime Minister was present this afternoon. He responded very clearly to the nine questions he was asked on this subject. To say that he escapes his obligations is contrary to the truth. He was indeed present and answered very clearly. [[Applause]] Second, the majority tabled a motion, which made it very clear that the government would follow the proposal announced by the Prime Minister earlier. It's clear as rock water. To say otherwise would be to lie. You have clearly heard what the Prime Minister said: independent investigation, suspension of evictions until the investigation is concluded, at least until the end of January. His words are therefore clear. And to say the opposite is also to lie. [[Protests]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-21-54-plenair-ip208x.u103	Colleagues, let Mr Clarinval speak!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-21-54-plenair-ip208x.u104	Finally, Mrs Fonck, we do not have a democracy lesson to receive from the opposition in this area! I would like you to respect our group as well. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-21-54-plenair-ip208x.u105	All groups have been given the opportunity to express their views. We must now proceed to the vote. I repeat two elements of our Rules of Procedure. We shall vote in chronological order of the tabling of motions. First, on the motion of the colleagues of Ecolo-Groen. Then, on the motion of order of the majority. We're gonna sit down and get up.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-21-54-plenair-ip208x.u106	Mr President, I am asking for a vote on the name.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-21-54-plenair-ip208x.u107	Mr Calvo, it is your right to ask for the name vote. We are voting on the first motion tabled by Ecolo-Groen. Start of voting / Start of the vote. Did everyone vote and check their vote? / Did everyone vote and check his voice? End of voting / End of vote. Result of the vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-21-54-plenair-ip208x.u108	Yes [[55]] Yes No. 83 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 138 Total Accordingly, this motion is dismissed. Consequently, this motion was rejected. We are now voting on the third order motion tabled by Mr Dewael, Mr Clarinval, Mr De Roover and Mr Verherstraeten. Start of voting / Start of the vote. Did everyone vote and check their vote? / Did everyone vote and check his voice? End of voting / End of vote. Result of the vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-21-54-plenair-ip208x.u109	Yes [[80]] Yes No. 2............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 56 Abstensions Total 138 Total Accordingly, this motion was adopted. Consequently, this motion was adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-21-54-plenair-ip208x.u110	The meeting's open. The discussion is open. The rapporteur is Ms Temmerman. It shall refer to the written report. Mrs Wouters has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-21-54-plenair-ip208x.u111	Mr President, thank you for giving me the floor and please excuse me for not appearing on the list of speakers. I spent the afternoon in the Finance Committee and, frankly, I completely forgot to register as a speaker. With regard to the Court's 2016 and 2018 accounts, especially in the context of the financing of political parties, I have to say that we will vote against. Firstly, the government announced in 2014 that 2% would be included in all amounts, within the framework of the budgetary line. We note now that Minister Wilmès has also admitted that the agreement concluded in 2014 in the Council of Ministers will be abandoned, thus preventing the savings of 2% in 2016, 2017, 2018 and so on. Secondly, with regard to the financing of the political parties, in a not so far past, when I was still a member of the majority, the majority parties - their group leaders - will have to agree to this because they were sitting together in the meeting themselves admitting that they could not allow an indexation of the funding of the political parties. However, today it appears that there has indeed been an indexation in 2016 and 2017 and that one is planned in the 2018 budget. So I can only say that an increase of EUR 1.2 million is foreseen for the financing of the political parties, which I do not think was the agreement. That is why we shall vote against it. We tabled an amendment here last week in the context of the budget. There will therefore be no amendment now. I can only say that all the parties in the same bed are ill and that no one here is prepared to put their money in the bag and let the indexation go. That's the only conclusion I can draw. I am particularly sorry that the majority did not comply with the agreement.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-21-54-plenair-ip208x.u112	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The meeting's over. The discussion is closed. The vote on the 2016 accounts and 2018 budgets of the Chamber of Representatives and of the donations to the political parties will take place later. The vote on the 2016 and 2018 budgets of the House of Representatives and the political party endowment will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-21-54-plenair-ip208x.u113	The meeting's open. The discussion is open. The rapporteurs, Mr Vermeulen and Mr Van Biesen, refer to the written report. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The meeting's over. The discussion is closed. The vote on the 2016 accounts, the 2016 and 2017 budget adjustments and the 2018 budget proposals will take place later. The vote on the 2016 accounts, the 2016 and 2017 budget adjustments and the 2018 budget proposals will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-21-54-plenair-ip208x.u114	The last distributed agenda contains a list of proposals for which consideration has been requested. You have taken note of the list of proposals for consideration in the agenda distributed to you. If there is no objection, I shall consider it adopted; in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, these proposals shall be sent to the committees responsible. If there are no comments on this subject, I will take it into account as a matter of fact and refer the proposals back to the relevant committees in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 19 December 2017, I also propose that you consider: - the bill (Mrs Sonja Becq) amending the Income Tax Code 1992 as regards the notion of statutory retirement age, No. 2857/1; - the motion for a resolution (Mrs Leen Dierick) on a generalised reduced rate of VAT on repairs, No. 2859/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-21-54-plenair-ip208x.u115	- the motion for a resolution (Mr Wouter De Vriendt and Mr Benoit Hellings) on the introduction of a ban on trade in products from Israeli settlements in occupied territories, No 2858/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-21-54-plenair-ip208x.u116	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 19 December 2017, I also propose that you take into account: - the proposal for a law (Ms. Sonja Becq) amending the Income Tax Code 1992 with regard to the concept of the legal age of retirement, No. 2857/1; - the motion for a resolution (Ms. Leen Dierick) in favour of a generalised reduced VAT rate on repairs, No 2859/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-21-54-plenair-ip208x.u117	- the motion for a resolution (MM. Wouter De Vriend and Benoit Hellings) to prohibit trade in products from Israeli settlements in occupied territory, No. 2858/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-21-54-plenair-ip208x.u118	Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-21-54-plenair-ip208x.u119	This interview was held at the public meeting of the Committee for the Interior, General Affairs and Public Administration of 13 December 2017. This inquiry was developed in a public meeting of the Committee on the Interior, General Affairs and the Civil Service on 13 December 2017. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 240/1): - a motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mr Stéphane Crusnière and Mr Emir Kir; - a simple motion was tabled by Mrs Rita Gantois. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 240/1): - a motion of recommendation was tabled by Messrs. Stéphane Crusnière and Emir Kir; - a simple motion was tabled by Mrs Rita Gantois. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put this motion to the vote. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-21-54-plenair-ip208x.u120	Mr President, on 6 December, some 20 federal police officers, accompanied by a representative of the Foreign Office, went to the Fedasil centre in Jodoigne to expel a family of Chechens who had been ordered to leave the territory. Even if this expulsion was planned and can be justified under the Dublin procedure, the way in which things happened raises many questions: twenty police officers to expel two adults and eight children. It is not normal that in the twenty-first century, in a democratic country, a father could be so treated in front of his horrified children because he refused to separate himself from his wife and one of his daughters, while accepting the procedure. The incident shocked many witnesses, including local police officers. A complaint had also been lodged with Committee P. The children of the family had been truly traumatized. The purpose of my inquiry was to ask Minister Jambon for an explanation of these facts. Beyond these issues specifically related to the attempted expulsion of 6 December, this is not the first time that law enforcement behaviour has been pointed out in the context of the return policy. The way in which the procedure was conducted also undermines the work of the staff of the Fedasil centres, who are doing remarkable work and trying to build trust with asylum seekers. It takes time; you have to get to know each other. This type of operation, with the violence that has been carried out, endangers the whole relationship of trust not only with the people concerned, but also with all the asylum seekers who are in the centres, which is truly regrettable! It is essential that an investigation sheds light on the course of events within the Fedasil centre in Jodoigne and on the possible slippages that may have occurred. I have asked that Parliament be kept informed of this investigation. On the basis of the Minister's reply, it seems to me important that the government, in collaboration with Parliament and civil society, reflect on how families can be accompanied in the removal procedure and review the procedures in depth, so that such events can no longer occur. I hope that, in the light of what has happened again in the last few hours, the majority will support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-21-54-plenair-ip208x.u121	Thank you, Mr Crusnière. Are there any other explanations of vote? [[No]] Start of voting / Start of the vote. Did everyone vote and check their vote? / Did everyone vote and check his voice? End of voting / End of vote. Result of the vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-21-54-plenair-ip208x.u122	Yes [[80]] Yes No. 58 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 138 Total The simple motion was adopted. Therefore, the motion for recommendation is over. The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motion of recommendation lapses.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-21-54-plenair-ip208x.u123	Vote on Amendment No 1 by Catherine Fonck to insert a section 1/1(n). (2746/21) Vote on Amendment No 1 by Catherine Fonck to insert a section 1/1(n). (2746/21) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes 24 Yes No. [[80]] No Abstentions 34 Abstensions Total 138 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 2 by Catherine Fonck to insert an article 8/1(n). (2746/21) Vote on Amendment No 2 by Catherine Fonck to insert an Article 8/1(n). (2746/21)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-21-54-plenair-ip208x.u124	Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 5) Yes 44 Yes No. [[80]] No Abstentions 14 Abstensions Total 138 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 24 by Karin Jiroflée inserting an Article 8/1(n). (2746/22) Vote on Amendment No 24 by Karin Jiroflée to insert an Article 8/1(n). (2746/22) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 6) Yes [[46]] Yes No. 86 No Abstentions 6 Abstensions Total 138 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 25 by Karin Jiroflée introducing an Article 8/2(n). (2746/22) Vote on Amendment No 25 by Karin Jiroflée to insert an Article 8/2(n). (2746/22) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-21-54-plenair-ip208x.u125	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 26 by Karin Jiroflée inserting an Article 8/3(n). (2746/22) Vote on Amendment No 26 by Karin Jiroflée to insert an Article 8/3(n). (2746/22) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-21-54-plenair-ip208x.u126	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 27 by Karin Jiroflée introducing an Article 8/4(n). (2746/22) Vote on Amendment No 27 by Karin Jiroflée to insert an Article 8/4(n). (2746/22) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-21-54-plenair-ip208x.u127	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 28 by Karin Jiroflée introducing an Article 8/5(n). (2746/22) Vote on Amendment No 28 by Karin Jiroflée to insert an Article 8/5(n). (2746/22) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 7) Yes 49 Yes No. [[85]] No Abstentions 3 Abstensions Total 137 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 29 by Karin Jiroflée introducing an Article 8/6(n). (2746/22) Vote on Amendment No 29 by Karin Jiroflée to insert an Article 8/6(n). (2746/22) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-21-54-plenair-ip208x.u128	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 30 by Karin Jiroflée introducing an Article 8/7(n). (2746/22) Vote on Amendment No 30 by Karin Jiroflée to insert an Article 8/7(n). (2746/22)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-21-54-plenair-ip208x.u129	Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 8) Yes [[47]] Yes No. [[80]] No Abstentions 12 Abstensions Total 139 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 31 by Karin Jiroflée introducing an Article 10/8(n). (2746/22) Vote on Amendment No 31 by Karin Jiroflée to insert an Article 10/8(n). (2746/22) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 9) Yes [[45]] Yes No. 76 No Abstentions 14 Abstensions Total 135 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Mrs Cassart-Mailleux, Mrs Smeyers, Mrs Lanjri and Mr Deseyn voted against. Vote on Amendment No 32 by Karin Jiroflée introducing an Article 10/9(n). (2746/22) Vote on Amendment No 32 by Karin Jiroflée to insert an Article 10/9(n). (2746/22) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 10) Yes 44 Yes No. 87 No Abstentions 8 Abstensions Total 139 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 33 by Karin Jiroflée introducing an Article 10/20(n). (2746/22) Vote on Amendment No 33 by Karin Jiroflée to insert an Article 10/20(n). (2746/22) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-21-54-plenair-ip208x.u130	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 34 by Karin Jiroflée introducing an article 10/11(n). (2746/22) Vote on Amendment No 34 by Karin Jiroflée to insert an Article 10/11(n). (2746/22) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 11) Yes 56 Yes No. [[80]] No Abstentions 3 Abstensions Total 139 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 35 by Karin Jiroflée introducing an Article 10/22(n). (2746/22) Vote on Amendment No 35 by Karin Jiroflée to insert an Article 10/22(n). (2746/22) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-21-54-plenair-ip208x.u131	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 36 by Karin Jiroflée to insert an Article 8/13(n). (2746/22) Vote on Amendment No 36 by Karin Jiroflée to insert an Article 8/13(n). (2746/22) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 12) Yes 50 Yes No. 79 No Abstentions 9 Abstensions Total 138 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Mr Dallemagne voted in favour. Vote on Amendment No 3 by Catherine Fonck to insert an article 8/2(n). (2746/21) Vote on Amendment No 3 by Catherine Fonck to insert an Article 8/2(n). (2746/21) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 13) Yes [[55]] Yes No. [[80]] No Abstentions 3 Abstensions Total 138 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 4 by Catherine Fonck to insert a section 1/3(n). (2746/21) Vote on Amendment No 4 by Catherine Fonck to insert a section 1/3(n). (2746/21) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes 53 Yes No. 83 No Abstentions 3 Abstensions Total 139 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 5 by Catherine Fonck to insert an article 8/3(n). (2746/21) Vote on Amendment No 5 by Catherine Fonck to insert an Article 8/3(n). (2746/21) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-21-54-plenair-ip208x.u132	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 6 by Catherine Fonck to insert an article 8/4(n). (2746/21) Vote on Amendment No 6 by Catherine Fonck to insert an Article 8/4(n). (2746/21) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-21-54-plenair-ip208x.u133	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 7 by Catherine Fonck to insert an article 8/5(n). (2746/21) Vote on Amendment No 7 by Catherine Fonck to insert an Article 8/5(n). (2746/21) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-21-54-plenair-ip208x.u134	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 8 by Catherine Fonck to insert an article 8/6(n). (2746/21) Vote on Amendment No 8 by Catherine Fonck to insert an Article 8/6(n). (2746/21) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-21-54-plenair-ip208x.u135	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 9 by Catherine Fonck to insert a section 1/4(n). (2746/21) Vote on Amendment No 9 by Catherine Fonck to insert a section 1/4(n). (2746/21) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-21-54-plenair-ip208x.u136	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 10 by Catherine Fonck to insert an article 8/7(n). (2746/21) Vote on Amendment No 10 by Catherine Fonck to insert an Article 8/7(n). (2746/21) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-21-54-plenair-ip208x.u137	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 11 by Catherine Fonck to insert an Article 8/8(n). (2746/21) Vote on Amendment No 11 by Catherine Fonck to insert an Article 8/8(n). (2746/21) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-21-54-plenair-ip208x.u138	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 12 by Catherine Fonck to insert an Article 8/9(n). (2746/21) Vote on Amendment No 12 by Catherine Fonck to insert an Article 8/9(n). (2746/21) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 15) Yes 51 Yes No. 83 No Abstentions 5 Abstensions Total 139 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 13 by Catherine Fonck to insert an article 8/10(n). (2746/21) Vote on Amendment No 13 by Catherine Fonck to insert an Article 8/10(n). (2746/21) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-21-54-plenair-ip208x.u139	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 14 by Catherine Fonck to insert a section 1/5(n). (2746/21) Vote on Amendment No 14 by Catherine Fonck to insert a section 1/5(n). (2746/21) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 16) Yes 52 Yes No. 81 No Abstentions 5 Abstensions Total 138 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Mr Devin has voted in favour. Vote on Amendment No 15 by Catherine Fonck to insert an article 8/11(n). (2746/21) Vote on Amendment No 15 by Catherine Fonck to insert an Article 8/11(n). (2746/21) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-21-54-plenair-ip208x.u140	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 16 by Catherine Fonck to insert an article 8/12(n). (2746/21) Vote on Amendment No 16 by Catherine Fonck to insert an Article 8/12(n). (2746/21) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-21-54-plenair-ip208x.u141	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 17 by Catherine Fonck to insert an article 8/13(n). (2746/21) Vote on Amendment No 17 by Catherine Fonck to insert an Article 8/13(n). (2746/21) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-21-54-plenair-ip208x.u142	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 18 by Catherine Fonck to insert an Article 8/14(n). (2746/21) Vote on Amendment No 18 by Catherine Fonck to insert an Article 8/14(n). (2746/21) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-21-54-plenair-ip208x.u143	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 19 by Catherine Fonck to insert an article 8/15(n). (2746/21) Vote on Amendment No 19 by Catherine Fonck to insert an Article 8/15(n). (2746/21) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-21-54-plenair-ip208x.u144	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 20 by Catherine Fonck to insert an article 8/16(n). (2746/21) Vote on Amendment No 20 by Catherine Fonck to insert an Article 8/16(n). (2746/21) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-21-54-plenair-ip208x.u145	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 21 by Catherine Fonck to insert an Article 8/17(n). (2746/21) Vote on Amendment No 21 by Catherine Fonck to insert an Article 8/17(n). (2746/21) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-21-54-plenair-ip208x.u146	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 22 by Catherine Fonck to insert an article 8/18(n). (2746/21) Vote on Amendment No 22 by Catherine Fonck to insert an Article 8/18(n). (2746/21) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-21-54-plenair-ip208x.u147	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 23 by Catherine Fonck to insert an article 8/19(n). (2746/21) Vote on Amendment No 23 by Catherine Fonck to insert an Article 8/19(n). (2746/21) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-21-54-plenair-ip208x.u148	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 37 by Peter Vanvelthoven on Article 86. (2746/22) Vote on Amendment No 37 by Peter Vanvelthoven to Rule 86. (2746/22) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 17) Yes 53 Yes No. 79 No Abstentions 6 Abstensions Total 138 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 86 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Rule 86 was adopted. Mrs Patricia Ceysens voted against.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-21-54-plenair-ip208x.u149	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-21-54-plenair-ip208x.u150	Mr President, I would like to say very briefly that we will vote against this programme law because, after three years of severe savings, we will not find any way of making health care affordable and accessible to people who are having a hard time. This was also the spirit of our amendments. We shall therefore vote against it.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-21-54-plenair-ip208x.u151	Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 18) Yes [[80]] Yes No. 57 No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 138 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (2746/23) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (2746/23) Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-21-54-plenair-ip208x.u152	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 19) Yes 139 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 139 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (2791/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (2791/04)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-21-54-plenair-ip208x.u153	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 20) Yes 87 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 51 Abstensions Total 138 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (2792/5) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (2792/25) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? (Non)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-21-54-plenair-ip208x.u154	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 21) Yes 136 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 3 Abstensions Total 139 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (2759/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (2759/4) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? (Non)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-21-54-plenair-ip208x.u155	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 22) Yes 139 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 139 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (2760/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (2760/4)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-21-54-plenair-ip208x.u156	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 23) Yes 138 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 138 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (2761/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (2761/4)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-21-54-plenair-ip208x.u157	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 24) Yes [[120]] Yes No. 2............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 17 Abstensions Total 139 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (2793/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (2793/4) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? (Non)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-21-54-plenair-ip208x.u158	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-21-54-plenair-ip208x.u159	Mr. Chairman, my group will not be able to support this bill for two essential reasons. The first, as the President of the Royal Union of Justices of the Peace said during the work in committee, is that the Minister's reforms have the effect of a compressor roller and have only a budgetary purpose, without any real reflection on the choice of a justice of proximity that is justice of peace. Minister, the criteria that governed your choice have been based, not totally arbitrary, but partial. For example, in determining the location of the justice system, you did not take into account any indicators other than those you have identified, including the accessibility of the courts and justices of peace through public transport. You have made choices dictated by internal balances in some jurisdictions rather than looking for real balances for the service to be rendered to litigants. Secondly, you have received a petition from the inhabitants of the periphery asking you to maintain the peace justice of Kraainem. Linking this justice of peace to Rhode-Saint-Genèse, i.e. forcing the inhabitants to make a detour, by facing the problems of public transport or congestion of the roads or ring in Rhode-Saint-Genèse, is not the wisest choice. To say that there will be justice under the tree seems to us an unsatisfactory response in light of the expectations expressed by the signatories of the petition that was given to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-21-54-plenair-ip208x.u160	Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 25) Yes 81 Yes No. 51 No Abstentions 6 Abstensions Total 138 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (2695/11) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (2695/11) Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-21-54-plenair-ip208x.u161	Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 26) Yes 136 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 2 Abstensions Total 138 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (2820/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (2820/4) Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]] Mrs Almaci voted in favour.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-21-54-plenair-ip208x.u162	Vote on Amendment No 25 by Barbara Pas cs to omit Article 2. (2709/9) Vote on Amendment No 25 by Barbara Pas cs to delete Article 2. (2709/9) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 27) Yes 5 Yes No. 133 No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 139 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 2 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 2 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 43 by Stefaan Van Hecke to insert an article 21/1(n). (2709/9) Vote on Amendment No 43 by Stefaan Van Hecke to insert an Article 21/1(n). (2709/9) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 28) Yes 53 Yes No. [[85]] No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 139 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 44 by Stefaan Van Hecke to insert an article 21/1(n). (2709/9) Vote on Amendment No 44 by Stefaan Van Hecke to insert an Article 21/1(n). (2709/9) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-21-54-plenair-ip208x.u163	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 26 by Barbara Pas cs on Article 3. (2709/9) Vote on amendment No 26 by Barbara Not css to article 3. (2709/9) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 29) Yes 5 Yes No. 133 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 138 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 3 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 3 was adopted. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Mr Top voted against. Vote on Amendment No 27 by Barbara Pas cs to omit Article 5. (2709/9) Vote on Amendment No 27 by Barbara Pas cs to delete Article 5. (2709/9) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-21-54-plenair-ip208x.u164	Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 5 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 5 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 28 by Barbara Pas cs to omit Article 6. (2709/9) Vote on Amendment No 28 by Barbara Pas cs to delete Article 6. (2709/9) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-21-54-plenair-ip208x.u165	Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 6 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 6 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 29 by Barbara Pas cs to Article 9. (2709/9) Vote on Amendment No 29 by Barbara Pas cs to Article 9. (2709/9) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-21-54-plenair-ip208x.u166	Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 9 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 9 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 30 by Barbara Pas cs to omit Article 12. (2709/9) Vote on Amendment No 30 by Barbara Pas cs to delete Article 12. (2709/9) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-21-54-plenair-ip208x.u167	Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 12 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 12 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 31 by Barbara Pas cs on Article 14. (2709/9) Vote on Amendment No 31 by Barbara Pas cs to Article 14. (2709/9) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-21-54-plenair-ip208x.u168	Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 14 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 14 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 32 by Barbara Pas cs on Article 16. (2709/9) Vote on Amendment No 32 by Barbara Pas cs to Article 16. (2709/9) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-21-54-plenair-ip208x.u169	Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 16 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 16 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 33 by Barbara Pas cs to omit Article 17. (2709/9) Vote on Amendment No 33 by Barbara Pas cs to delete Article 17. (2709/9) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-21-54-plenair-ip208x.u170	The amendment was therefore rejected and Article 17 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 17 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 34 by Barbara Pas cs to omit Article 18. (2709/9) Vote on Amendment No 34 by Barbara Pas cs to delete Article 18. (2709/9) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-21-54-plenair-ip208x.u171	Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 18 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 18 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 35 by Barbara Pas cs to omit Article 20. (2709/9) Vote on Amendment No 35 by Barbara Pas cs to delete Article 20. (2709/9) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-21-54-plenair-ip208x.u172	Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 20 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 20 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 36 by Barbara Pas cs on Article 21. (2709/9) Vote on Amendment No 36 by Barbara Pas cs to Article 21. (2709/9) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-21-54-plenair-ip208x.u173	Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 21 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 21 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 37 by Barbara Pas cs on Article 26. (2709/9) Vote on Amendment No 37 by Barbara Pas cs to Article 26. (2709/9) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-21-54-plenair-ip208x.u174	Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 26 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 26 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 38 by Barbara Pas cs on Article 27. (2709/9) Vote on Amendment No 38 by Barbara Pas cs to Article 27. (2709/9) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-21-54-plenair-ip208x.u175	Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 27 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 27 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 39 by Barbara Pas cs on Article 28. (2709/9) Vote on Amendment No 39 by Barbara Pas cs to Article 28. (2709/9) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-21-54-plenair-ip208x.u176	Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 28 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 28 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 40 by Barbara Pas cs to insert an article 28/1(n). (2709/9) Vote on amendment No 40 by Barbara Pas cs to insert an article 28/1(n). (2709/9) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-21-54-plenair-ip208x.u177	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 41 by Barbara Pas cs to omit Article 29. (2709/9) Vote on Amendment No 41 by Barbara Pas cs to delete Article 29. (2709/9) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-21-54-plenair-ip208x.u178	Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 29 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 29 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 42 by Barbara Pas cs on Article 30. (2709/9) Vote on Amendment No 42 by Barbara Pas cs to Article 30. (2709/9) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-21-54-plenair-ip208x.u179	Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 30 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 30 was adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-21-54-plenair-ip208x.u180	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-21-54-plenair-ip208x.u181	Mr President, the fact that we have added the notion of a shipper to the law does not, in my view, provide any guarantee of additional security. This brings no added value, which is why I will abstain.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-21-54-plenair-ip208x.u182	Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 30) Yes 119 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 18 Abstensions Total 137 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (2709/10) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (2709/10) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-21-54-plenair-ip208x.u183	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes 137 Yes No. 1 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 138 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (2829/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (2829/4) Mrs Thoron voted in favour.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-21-54-plenair-ip208x.u184	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 32) Yes 136 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 136 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (2830/5) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (2830/5)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-21-54-plenair-ip208x.u185	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 33) Yes 136 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 136 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the budget for the year 2018 of the CREG. It will be brought to the attention of the CREG. Accordingly, the House adopts the budget for the year 2018 of the CREG. This will be made known to CREG. Mrs Almaci voted in favour.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-21-54-plenair-ip208x.u186	Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 34) Yes 132 Yes No. 3...................................................................................................................... 3...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... No Abstentions 3 Abstensions Total 138 Total Consequently, the Court shall adopt the accounts of the Chamber of Representatives for the financial year 2016. Accordingly, the House adopts the 2016 budget year accounts of the House of Representatives. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-21-54-plenair-ip208x.u187	Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 35) Yes 118 Yes No. 3...................................................................................................................... 3...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... No Abstentions 16 Abstensions Total 137 Total Consequently, the Court shall adopt the budget of the Chamber of Representatives for the financial year 2018. Accordingly, the House adopts the budget for the 2018 budget year of the House of Representatives. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-21-54-plenair-ip208x.u188	Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 36) Yes 125 Yes No. 3...................................................................................................................... 3...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... No Abstentions 6 Abstensions Total 134 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the accounts for the financial year 2016 of the donations to the political parties. As a result, the House adopts the 2016 budget year accounts for the allocation to political parties. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]] Mr Van Rompuy, Mr Brotcorne and Mrs Gabriels voted in favour.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-21-54-plenair-ip208x.u189	Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 37) Yes 127 Yes No. 3...................................................................................................................... 3...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... No Abstentions 8 Abstensions Total 138 Total Consequently, the Court shall adopt the budget for the financial year 2018 of the donations to the political parties. Accordingly, the House adopts the budget for the 2018 budget year for the allocation to political parties. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]] The sp.a Group abstained from the previous vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-21-54-plenair-ip208x.u190	Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 38) Yes 137 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 138 Total Consequently, the Court of Auditors shall adopt the accounts of the Court of Auditors for the financial year 2016. Accordingly, the Chamber adopts the accounts for the 2016 budget year of the Court of Auditors. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-21-54-plenair-ip208x.u191	Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-21-54-plenair-ip208x.u192	Consequently, the Court of Auditors shall adopt the amendment of the 2017 budget of the Court of Auditors. Accordingly, the Chamber adopts the adjustment of the 2017 budget of the Court of Auditors.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-21-54-plenair-ip208x.u193	Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-21-54-plenair-ip208x.u194	Consequently, the Court of Auditors' budget proposals for 2018 are adopted by the Court of Auditors. Accordingly, the Chamber adopts the 2018 budget proposals of the Court of Auditors.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-21-54-plenair-ip208x.u195	Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-21-54-plenair-ip208x.u196	Consequently, the Court adopts the accounts of the Constitutional Court for the financial year 2016. Accordingly, the Chamber adopts the 2016 budget year accounts of the Constitutional Court.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-21-54-plenair-ip208x.u197	Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-21-54-plenair-ip208x.u198	Consequently, the Court adopts the 2018 budget proposals of the Constitutional Court. Accordingly, the Chamber adopts the 2018 budget proposals of the Constitutional Court.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-21-54-plenair-ip208x.u199	Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-21-54-plenair-ip208x.u200	Consequently, the Court shall adopt the accounts of the High Council for Justice for the financial year 2016. Accordingly, the House adopts the 2016 budget year accounts of the Supreme Council of Justice.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-21-54-plenair-ip208x.u201	Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-21-54-plenair-ip208x.u202	Consequently, the Court of Auditors shall adopt the adjustment of the budget of the High Council for Justice for the financial year 2016. Accordingly, the Chamber adopts the adjustment of the budget for the 2016 budget year of the Supreme Council of Justice.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-21-54-plenair-ip208x.u203	Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-21-54-plenair-ip208x.u204	Consequently, the Court adopts the 2018 budget proposals of the Supreme Court for Justice. Accordingly, the Chamber adopts the 2018 budget proposals of the Supreme Council of Justice.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-21-54-plenair-ip208x.u205	Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-21-54-plenair-ip208x.u206	Consequently, the Court shall adopt the accounts of the Standing Committee on Police Supervision for the financial year 2016. Accordingly, the House adopts the 2016 budget year accounts of the Standing Committee on the Control of Police Services.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-21-54-plenair-ip208x.u207	Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-21-54-plenair-ip208x.u208	Consequently, the Court adopts the amendment of the budget of the Standing Committee on Police Supervision for the financial year 2017. As a result, the House adopted the adjustment of the 2017 budget of the Standing Committee on the Control of Police Services.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-21-54-plenair-ip208x.u209	Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-21-54-plenair-ip208x.u210	Consequently, the Court adopts the 2018 budget proposals of the Standing Committee on Police Supervision. Accordingly, the House adopts the 2018 budget proposals of the Standing Committee on the Control of Police Services.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-21-54-plenair-ip208x.u211	Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-21-54-plenair-ip208x.u212	Consequently, the Court shall adopt the accounts of the Standing Committee on the Supervision of the Intelligence and Security Services for the financial year 2016. Accordingly, the House adopts the 2016 budget year accounts of the Standing Committee on the Control of Intelligence and Security Services.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-21-54-plenair-ip208x.u213	Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-21-54-plenair-ip208x.u214	Consequently, the Court adopts the 2018 budget proposals of the Standing Committee on the Supervision of Intelligence and Security Services. Accordingly, the House adopted the 2018 budget proposals of the Standing Committee on the Control of Intelligence and Security Services.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-21-54-plenair-ip208x.u215	Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-21-54-plenair-ip208x.u216	Consequently, the Court shall adopt the accounts of the College of Federal Ombudsmen for the financial year 2016. As a result, the House adopts the 2016 budget year accounts of the College of Federal Ombudsmen.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-21-54-plenair-ip208x.u217	Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-21-54-plenair-ip208x.u218	Consequently, the Court adopts the amendment of the budget for the financial year 2017 of the College of Federal Ombudsmen. Accordingly, the House adopts the adjustment of the budget for the 2017 budget year of the College of Federal Ombudsmen.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-21-54-plenair-ip208x.u219	Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-21-54-plenair-ip208x.u220	Consequently, the Court adopts the 2018 budget proposals of the College of Federal Ombudsmen. Accordingly, the House adopts the 2018 budget proposals of the College of Federal Ombudsmen.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-21-54-plenair-ip208x.u221	Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-21-54-plenair-ip208x.u222	Consequently, the Court adopts the accounts of the Commission for the protection of privacy for the financial year 2016. As a result, the House adopts the 2016 budget year accounts of the Privacy Commission.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-21-54-plenair-ip208x.u223	Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-21-54-plenair-ip208x.u224	Consequently, the Court adopts the amendment of the Commission's budget for the financial year 2017 for the protection of privacy. Accordingly, the Chamber adopts the adjustment of the 2017 budget of the Privacy Commission.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-21-54-plenair-ip208x.u225	Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 39) Yes 87 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 51 Abstensions Total 138 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the Commission's 2018 budget proposals for the protection of privacy. Accordingly, the House adopts the 2018 Budget proposals of the Privacy Commission. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Mr Olivier Maingain, Mr Alain Top, Mr Youro Casier and Mrs Maya Detiège abstained.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-21-54-plenair-ip208x.u226	Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 40) Yes 137 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 138 Total Consequently, the Court shall adopt the accounts for the financial year 2016 of the Appointment Committees for the notary. Accordingly, the Chamber adopts the 2016 budget year accounts of the Commissions de nomination pour le notariat. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-21-54-plenair-ip208x.u227	Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-21-54-plenair-ip208x.u228	Consequently, the Chamber adopts the 2018 budget proposals of the Nomination Committees for the Notarial Society. Accordingly, the Chamber adopts the 2018 Budget Proposals of the Commissions of Appointment for the Notariat.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-21-54-plenair-ip208x.u229	Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-21-54-plenair-ip208x.u230	Consequently, the Court adopts the accounts of the BIM Commission for the financial year 2016. Accordingly, the Chamber adopts the accounts for the 2016 budget year of the MRD Commission.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-21-54-plenair-ip208x.u231	Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-21-54-plenair-ip208x.u232	Consequently, the Court adopts the BIM Commission's 2018 budget proposals. Accordingly, the Chamber adopts the 2018 budget proposals of the MRD Commission.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-21-54-plenair-ip208x.u233	Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-21-54-plenair-ip208x.u234	Consequently, the Court shall adopt the accounts of the Supervisory Body for the financial year 2016. Accordingly, the Chamber adopts the 2016 budget year accounts of the Police Information Review Body.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-21-54-plenair-ip208x.u235	Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-21-54-plenair-ip208x.u236	Consequently, the Court adopts the 2018 budget proposals of the Supervisory Body on the police information. Accordingly, the Chamber adopts the 2018 budget proposals of the Police Information Review Body.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-21-54-plenair-ip208x.u237	Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 41) Yes 123 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 14 Abstensions Total 137 Total The Court therefore adopts the accounts of the Federal Deontological Commission for the financial year 2016. Accordingly, the Chamber adopts the 2016 budget year accounts of the Federal Ethics Commission. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-21-54-plenair-ip208x.u238	Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 42) Yes 110 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 28 Abstensions Total 138 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the 2018 budget proposals of the Federal Deontological Commission. Accordingly, the Chamber adopts the 2018 budget proposals of the Federal Ethics Commission. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-21-54-plenair-ip208x.u239	We must proceed with the adoption of the agenda for Thursday 11 January 2018. We must proceed to the approval of the agenda of the sitting on Thursday, January 11, 2018. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] The agenda has been adopted. No observation? [[No]] The agenda was approved. I would also remind you that tomorrow at 10:00 a.m. we will have a plenary session. Mrs Kitir, you are asking for the floor?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-21-54-plenair-ip208x.u240	Mr President, what is on the agenda tomorrow?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-21-54-plenair-ip208x.u241	Tomorrow's discussion of the corporate tax reform bill will be on the agenda. See you tomorrow. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Friday 22 December 2017 at 10 a.m. The meeting is adjourned. Next sitting on Friday, December 22, 2017 at 10.00 hours.
