ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-04-54-commissie-ic701x.u1	Mr Minister, your cabinet has opened a reflection on an expansion of the tax shelter to the benefit of economic actors, based on the philosophy of the Monory-De Clercq scheme as it existed in the 1980s. On the occasion of your participation in the Ecofin Club, you would have expressed the wish to be able to support SMEs and the self-employed by means of a mechanism mobilising savings for economic development, in particular projects in the process of growth and which require means adapted to their situation. Minister, I obviously share your vision, as much as it is necessary to support the spirit of undertaking in our country. Of course, today the general indicators are good, even very good, but it is not forbidden to do even better. On the other hand, I know that the government is working on other avenues of action, particularly at the ISOC level, and that caution is required in dealing with complex issues. What are the agenda and specifications for the current work of reflection? Are there any consultations planned at this stage? Under what criteria could this phase of reflection eventually lead to a more advanced prospecting project?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-04-54-commissie-ic701x.u2	Mr President, we are actually thinking about this issue in my team. The current scheme concerns support for the acquisition of direct or indirect participation in the capital of SMEs, with a deduction of 30 % to the tax of natural persons, if it is a contribution to the capital of SMEs, and 45 % for micro-companies. These companies must have existed for less than four years; the investment must be carried out for a period of four years; the SME cannot collect in total more than 250 000 euros via this means and the maximum investment per year per taxpayer is 100 000 euros. There are four investment modalities under the current scheme: direct investment in a target company in shares or shares and three forms of investment by intermediaries: - the first may be linked to a platform; - the second via an alternative investment vehicle; - the third through a starter fund. Each of these forms of investment takes on a number of modalities. You are right, I have mentioned the possibility of extending this mechanism and we have revisited in terms of analysis the initiatives taken in the past, in particular the measures Monory-De Clercq, even if they go back some time. As a reminder, at the time, in order to encourage risk savings, two types of incentive measures had been taken under Royal Decrees No. 5 of 9 March 1982 and 19 April 1982. First of all, it concerned the immunity of profits distributed to the new shares and shares of Belgian companies subscribed and released in cash in 1982 or 1983, both at the level of the distribution company and at the level of the shareholder or associate. The second part of the measures includes the deduction of the total income taxable on the PPI from the sums spent on the acquisition, on the primary or secondary market, of shares or shares in Belgian companies or certificates of registered mutual funds. These are very strong measures. Moreover, their memory went through time and the economic impact was very real. They are not transferable as they are and for various reasons: 1. the socio-economic context has changed significantly; 2. in view of the legal context which has evolved; 3. in view of the European provisions; 4. in view of the budgetary aspects which they may entail. However, before the end of the year, I will put a proposal on the government table to expand the tax shelter provisions to support early business growth. The first four years, as well as their creation, are important - but their growth and financing are equally important. My thoughts relate to the limitation of the four years that I would like to extend to ten. On the other hand, I would like the maximum nominal amount for the company to be raised, so that the scheme corresponds to the need for more substantial financing sometimes of some of them. Mr President, in order to conclude, everything will be subject to broad consultation by the economic players and to the appreciation of my colleagues, all of which must be part of the budget pipeline, which is known to be required.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-04-54-commissie-ic701x.u3	Minister, thank you for your detailed and comprehensive response. We will follow the development of the proposal that you will put on the table before the end of the year, which I take note of. We can only encourage you to continue in this direction. As you pointed out, financing and accompaniment to early business growth are fundamental to the economic dynamism of our country.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-04-54-commissie-ic701x.u4	Mr President, Minister, I would like to take stock with you of some very interesting things that you unveiled on May 5 of this year regarding economic beautification for the horeca sector. It took a lot of effort from you and the industry. The operators of this part of our economy have indeed made significant efforts, especially when the cash register system was put in place – and we know how difficult it was sometimes. To strengthen this economic improvement, you have suggested further improvements, such as facilitating the use of overtime and re-evaluating the system for reducing fees in the horeca sector when using a cash register. Minister, does this economic embellishment tend to be confirmed in the horeca sector? What further legislative improvements could they follow?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-04-54-commissie-ic701x.u5	Mr President, honourable Member, the economic health of this important sector of Horeca is indeed a permanent point of attention. I would also like to thank the sector for its important and more specific efforts in the context of the integration of the new cash register system, even though technical uncertainty has forced the withdrawal of a number of funds; legal uncertainty is not completely resolved to date, even if it is hoped that this point can be definitively clarified in the short term. Nevertheless, the sector is gradually adapting to the scheme, and this should be stressed. Regular monitoring of the sector is also important, particularly in view of the new measures taken a few months ago: flexi-jobs, gross net overtime and social security contribution reduction schemes. What is the situation in the sector? In 2013, the situation and observations (economic indicators, bankruptcies, job creation) were either negative or overall negative. For the years 2014, 2015 and 2016, there has been a recovery, even if it is necessary to be nuanced and even if the sector has been hard hit by dramatic external events, including the insecurity and attacks that have hit our country. However, it is encouraging to note that almost 180,000 jobs were recorded in the sector in the third quarter of 2016. For the first time since the end of 2014, the number of full-time equivalents covering the total number of fixed workers, extras and flexi-jobs has exceeded the 79,000 mark. In other words, this sector is well equipped in terms of employment. In addition, over 18,000 flexi-jobs were registered during the same period. It should be noted that the ratio between the number of bankruptcies in this sector and business start-ups has never been lower since 2009: 30.3 % at the end of 2016. This is, of course, an economically crucial and societally essential area of activity that we want to support. I want to point out to you that positive trends must always be nuanced. In this regard, recent data on bankruptcies invite us to remain attentive. We experienced contrasting situations between the Regions, but the number of bankruptcies increased by 7.5% between January and April of this year, compared to the same period in 2016. We are therefore seeing a trend of steady decline, followed by an upturn in the number of bankruptcies. We should therefore be able to consolidate the current provisions. What is it? First of all, I would like to strengthen the system of reductions in social contributions provided for in the Horeca. I hope that we will be able to decide this collectively in the special Committee on Economic Affairs. Secondly, with my colleague Kris Peeters, I would like to see the use of overtime and its volume facilitated and extended, so that the gross is equal to the net. I am thinking in particular of the notion of extra extraordinary work in the Horeca, which requires a prior examination. I know that Kris Peeters has already made efforts to make the provision more flexible. In my view, it is important to fluidize the overtime system so that the sector can make extensive use of it. This need is real. It is clear that the Horeca obviously cannot manage the weather and the booking rate. When we can take action to improve and deepen the system of reductions in social contributions and to extend the volume of overtime, it seems to me that two major advances in this sector will have been made. In any case, I plead in this direction and am in the process of developing such measures.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-04-54-commissie-ic701x.u6	Minister, thank you for your very detailed answer and I congratulate you for the efforts that have been made. I would like to point out that the Horeca had to make quite significant efforts following the introduction of the cash register. I hope that the measures you have just outlined can be put in place, which will help to continue on the right track to develop this economic improvement in this sector.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-04-54-commissie-ic701x.u7	Mr President, Minister, this is an important subject because, during the hearings we conducted in the Committee on the Economy when we were studying our proposal for a law on paternity leave for self-employed persons, several associations of self-employed persons and SMEs have pointed out that everything about the disease comes at the forefront of their concerns. Minister, on May 10, 2017, you received a letter from UCM and UNIZO. Following a survey of their members at the end of 2016, the two organizations made several findings regarding the sickness and disability insurance of the self-employed. It turns out that when an independent person is ill, the situation is not the same as when he or she is an employee. For example, a majority of respondents indicated that they wanted to return to work as quickly as possible. 85% even report that they will not follow their medical prescription for sick leave for financial reasons. Often, no third party can resume the torch during the worker's illness. In short, the situation is problematic in case of illness for the self-employed. UCM and UNIZO have therefore sent you several recommendations. The first concerns the possibility for self-employed persons to take part-time sick leave with half an allowance (and therefore time to monitor their work). The second is the creation of a health account, with which the self-employed can invest in their well-being at work and in measures to help them reintegrate. The third concerns the provision of direct information to the self-employed at the time of his illness and the elimination of the month of deficiency, i.e. the first month without compensation, by doubling the allowance paid in the second month of sickness. The last recommendation proposes to include a principle of proportionality in compensation, not a lump sum of €1,168 as is the case today. Minister, what answers do you intend to give to all of these recommendations? Do you intend to take legislative initiatives in these areas? If so, within what time frame?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-04-54-commissie-ic701x.u8	Mr President, Minister, representatives of UNIZO and UCM have announced that they have sent you and your colleague in charge of health a letter indicating a study carried out with their members, at the request of INAMI. The objective of this study was to assess the knowledge of their rights by the self-employed when they are incapacitated for work and their wishes when they are confronted with them. In this survey of 1,524 people in 2016, it appears that the situation of the self-employed is quite different from that of the employees and public officials who, after their illness, find their work and income fairly simply. In fact, according to the results, it has been found that the self-employed give priority to a return to work (59%) rather than to benefits (37%). In addition, 85% indicated that they would not follow the medial prescription for stopping illness for financial reasons, but also because of the pressure of clients and the risk of losing them. Finally, 42% say they do not have a solution to ensure the continuation of the activity by a third party. The communication of the results of this study was accompanied by recommendations, including the request for part-time sick leave allowing the self-employed affected by the disease to combine a reduced activity by definition with a half-incapacity for work allowance. Minister, have you had the opportunity to read the recommendations made by UCM and UNIZO? If so, how do you view them within your departmental jurisdiction? In particular with regard to the proposal on part-time sick leave, what is your position on this? Finally, have you asked your services to consider strengthening support for self-employed workers in situations of illness?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-04-54-commissie-ic701x.u9	Colleagues, I have read about the various recommendations you are quoting, but also about the entire study carried out by UNIZO and the UCM for the Centre of Expertise on Incapacity for Work of INAMI. I must say that this study is timely. Indeed, the Minister of Social Affairs and I are responsible for the insurance of self-employed workers. So we looked at the situation of the sick self-employed and we were concerned about some of the differences in treatment that persist today at the expense of the self-employed. This study therefore confirms our convictions and the fact that, in addition to differences in treatment, we must also take into account the expectations of each other, which are also very different depending on the variety of situations of the self-employed. This was further highlighted by this study. The self-employed are particularly concerned, for example, about maintaining their business, hence their work tool, and about the loyalty of their clients. I also note a lack of awareness of the existing mechanisms by a number of them. On the other hand, because of the constraints of the activity, some give up medical arrest in order to continue the work. A complete cessation of illness is not at all obvious for a number of them, even in the case of heavy treatments. It's obviously very challenging. Ladies and gentlemen, we are in the process of analysing in detail the various recommendations, together with our various departments. We are also studying the technical and budgetary feasibility of each of these recommendations. This examination is carried out within the framework of a specific working group organised at INAMI, which brings together members of the Insurance Management Committee allowance of self-employed workers and members of the General Management Committee for the Social Status of Self-Employed Workers. The work of this working group will be of great interest. The first meeting was held on 6 June. It is, of course, still a little early to be able to share the conclusions with Parliament. I won't fail to do it when the time comes. At the same time, priorities will have to be set with stakeholders and organisations representing the self-employed, in order to define the actions to be carried out in the first place. As far as I am concerned, I pay particular attention, in this context, to the elimination or reduction of the deficit month, which is cited as a priority by 34% of the self-employed. We also need to be better informed, as a number of existing mechanisms are not being sought. Thirdly, as we have done for maternity leave, the possibility of obtaining part-time benefits with part-time recovery is also of particular interest to me. This is obviously a provisional response, pending the conclusions of this working group, which has abundant and important material.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-04-54-commissie-ic701x.u10	Minister, thank you for your answer. I note with interest the establishment of a working group. I understand that if it met for the first time on 6 June, it is too early to hear the conclusions. We will follow this with great interest. I also find the leads that you consider to be a priority interesting. I am thinking in particular of the part-time allowance. Indeed, everyone knows that the peculiarity of the self-employed is to have great concerns for the continuity of their activity if they are absent or ill. That's an important point. The same is true for the right to default. We shall return to this matter. You have committed yourself to presenting the conclusions to Parliament. That is interesting and we will participate in an interesting and constructive way in the debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-04-54-commissie-ic701x.u11	Minister, in turn, I would like to thank you for your detailed response. I am obviously pleased that you are reviewing the recommendations that have been submitted to you and that you have set up a working group of experts to analyse them and determine to what extent and how they are feasible. This will enable us to identify priorities among them. I have heard that you yourself have already defined certain devices as priorities. I noted in your response that new recommendations and mechanisms could be put in place. However, existing schemes are under-used or insufficiently implemented. Information measures may be needed. It is not necessarily a question of setting up new mechanisms, but perhaps of raising the awareness of the self-employed and SMEs of those already in existence, which could be developed and mobilised for their benefit. We will follow closely the conclusions of this working group, which you will inform Parliament as soon as they are ready.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-04-54-commissie-ic701x.u12	We come to Mrs Jadin's question No 18489 on "the rainfall deficit".
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-04-54-commissie-ic701x.u13	Mr President, I wish to turn this question into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-04-54-commissie-ic701x.u14	Your vous and remerce, Madame Jadin.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-04-54-commissie-ic701x.u15	Mrs Dierick cannot be present to ask her question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-04-54-commissie-ic701x.u16	Minister, we read in the press that Horeca calls on Flanders both you and your colleague Peeters to work on a new regulation on the rules governing booking websites at the participating hotels. These booking websites would force participating hotels to always offer the lowest price through the booking website. Hotels are forbidden to offer better promotions through their own website. In addition, hotels have to pay a substantial commission fee for their listing on the website. In view of the market share of these booking websites, hotel operators have almost no choice but to respond to these mandatory rules. Action has already been taken on these practices in the neighbouring countries. For example, hotels in France and Germany can offer a lower price on their website. The aim of this regulation is, on the one hand, to protect the hotel sector and, on the other hand, to make the free market play to the benefit of consumers. I have a few questions about this. Will you respond to the call of the hotel sector by introducing regulations to prohibit those mandatory rules in breach of the free competition of booking websites? Secondly, do you have any knowledge of European initiatives in this area? Thirdly, if that is not the case, will you yourself take the initiative to harmonise this issue? On June 13, I asked you a second question following your press release that appeared on June 12, 2017. We then read that you are working on a regulation on the strict parity clauses that are included in contracts between online reservation centres and the catering sector. The Catering Industry has been making comments on these clauses for some time now. They would reduce the competitive opportunities in the sector and could also be detrimental to consumers. I also asked a number of questions about this to your colleague, Minister Peeters. At European level, initiatives have already been taken in France to ban this type of clause. How concrete is the regulation you want to implement? Are you thinking of a total ban on such clauses? Secondly, are you in consultation with your colleague Peeters and stakeholders in the catering sector, consumer organisations and online reservation centres in order to achieve a more balanced regulation? Finally, do you have any knowledge of European initiatives to achieve harmonised regulation? Will you urge your fellow Members to do so?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-04-54-commissie-ic701x.u17	Mr President, Minister, hoteliers feel that close parity is detrimental to them and that it limits their tariff freedom. They claim to be all the more penalized because they pay commissions to booking platforms or online reservation centres (OTA, Booking.com, Expedia, etc.).). The final bill can reach a commission of 23% for small hotels, compared to 18% or even 15% for large hotel chains. Minister, can you tell me how many Belgian hotel reservations have been made by online booking centres? Can you tell me how many Belgian hotel reservations have been made by other means of booking?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-04-54-commissie-ic701x.u18	Mr Minister, the issue has already been extensively presented and I would like to refer more specifically to your statement to the press at the beginning of June, in which you indicated your willingness to prohibit, through a law, tariff freedom clauses in the contracts concluded between these online reservation platforms and the horeca sector. My group has already tabled a bill to that effect on 27 April this year in order to try to resolve this problem. While the platforms offer real value gains for the consumer, prices are generally not the most attractive and the infringements on the free pricing of our Belgian hotels are very real. Minister, you were talking about legislating, but where are you in the process? If this is still your choice, what are the broad outlines and objectives? In this case, is there any collaboration with your colleague in charge of the Economy and Consumer Protection? In general, can you provide us with an update on the status of this case?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-04-54-commissie-ic701x.u19	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as far as the problem of online reservation centres is concerned, I have been in contact with the four most representative organisations in the hotel sector, namely the Federations Horeca Wallonie, Horeca Brussels, Horeca Flanders and the Brussels Hotels Association. On 29 March last, I received the representatives of the online travel agencies in my cabinet, namely a representative of the European Technology and Travel Services Association, a representative of Expedia and a representative of Booking. These talks showed that the online travel agencies did not want to waive the strict parity clause to the hotel owners who are their customers and who did not even want to adapt them. The situation was therefore completely blocked. Taking into account the blocking, despite the long negotiation period and although I always wanted to give preference to the way of consultation, I have to note that, unless the online travel agencies change course at the last moment, only legislative intervention will be able to resolve the problems facing our hotel owners by maintaining the application of parity clauses and, above all, the strict parity clause. In these circumstances, I am in favour of banning all parity clauses by legislative means and of submitting a proposal to the Council of Ministers to this effect. In this context, the Macron Act is a source of inspiration. In addition, I have had contacts with my colleague in charge of Economics and Consumers. In a letter from the end of February, my colleague felt that we should wait for the results of the European monitoring exercise on this issue, which I will discuss later, before taking steps against the online travel agencies. In that letter, Kris Peeters also announced that he wanted to discuss this problem in a wider context, knowing that there are other dossiers that present similar problems regarding unbalanced contractual provisions. Since then, after having received the representatives of the hotel sector, my colleague Kris Peeters has indicated that he also wants to involve the consumer representative organisations, in particular Test-Achats, in order to know their point of view and then, with me, to invite all the players in the dossier around the table, since, as you have read, a number of reactions have been expressed, in particular by the booking agencies concerned. I am obviously not opposed to giving another last chance to a change in the voluntary behaviour of the online travel agencies (OTA), but I would like to remind you that it is necessary to give our hoteliers an additional area of freedom in order to ensure their viability or a more favourable economic environment. This has therefore as a prerequisite the disappearance of all the parity clauses, including the narrow parity clauses, when we know, Mrs Jadin, that according to the hotel sector, the percentage of rooms in Brussels' independent hotels, reserved via these plants, fluctuates around 90% and around 30% for hotels in international chains, with obviously variations depending on the sectors. I'm talking about Brussels. To allow a hotel to sell a cheaper room to the consumer on any occasion via its own website is not only positive for the consumer but also to give the hotelier the power to negotiate the commissions charged by the OTAs. These percentages of commission may vary but, depending on the information received, they can reach up to 23% of the room price. It should be noted that, as far as these commissions are concerned, they are not the same throughout Belgium and vary according to, for example, the cities concerned. They are around 15% in Brussels and Antwerp and 12% in the rest of the Kingdom. As can be seen, this is a multi-entry problem. At the same time, we must be able to move forward decisively and to the end if there is still room for dialogue between the various partners. With regard to European initiatives, the European Commission, in collaboration with ten competition authorities from European countries, conducted a monitoring exercise on the OTA sector. The European report on the results of this exercise was published in April 2017. Unfortunately, no definite conclusion can be drawn since he himself questions the reliability of his results. I note, however, that this report indicates that the disappearance of the broad and narrow parity clauses in Germany and France was followed by price diversification, which would lead to the conclusion that both broad and narrow parity is detrimental to sound competition. Following this report, the Commission announced its intention to continue monitoring the sector. This means that no solution should be expected at European level in the short term, but that does not prevent us from acting quickly at Belgian level, given that certain countries already ban parity clauses by law, including the strict parity clause. This is the case in France with the Macron Law, Austria and soon Italy. Let us not forget that Germany has banned such clauses by means of judicial decisions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-04-54-commissie-ic701x.u20	Minister, (...) with Minister Peeters to deal with this problem and to sit with all the actors around the table again. We are therefore looking forward to the proposal you will make to address the problems in the sector. However, I would like to say one thing that is not covered in the whole story. They complain that they may not offer a lower price on their own website than for example on booking.com or expedia.com, but the hotel operators are allowed to offer a different price via email or telephone contact. That is something snowed under in the whole story, with which I do not want to say that other legislation would not be possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-04-54-commissie-ic701x.u21	Minister, you have been very clear. I agree with you that the situation is not easy. The interests of small hotel operators must be taken into account. They must be given some form of freedom. At the same time, I find it intelligent, prudent and diligent on your part to put back, one last time perhaps, everyone around the table to find solutions. These solutions, let us recall, cannot be applied just to our country. They will have to be the result of a concerted effort to maintain our competitiveness, which we need to make our country attractive.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-04-54-commissie-ic701x.u22	Thank you, Minister, for your precise answer. We feel in your leadership a greater determination than that of your colleague Mr Peeters, that my colleague from the N-VA and I have already had the opportunity to question. He also told us that he was going to meet with the consumer association Test-Achats on July 5. I hope you will also participate in this meeting. It would be good to go in a concerted manner as you do. However, at some point, action will still have to be taken. Large tourist countries such as France have acted at some point in time. I think that we must not wait any longer and that we can move forward in this area, so that, as you said, we can achieve healthy competition between these hoteliers. Their sector is known to have been severely affected, particularly during 2016, by the terrorist climate that we have experienced. We must be able to support, as you do in other areas by other measures, this hotel sector.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-04-54-commissie-ic701x.u23	Mrs Lambrecht has informed us that she will not be coming.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-04-54-commissie-ic701x.u24	Mr President, Minister, at one of the ministers' councils in May, you launched the idea of allowing the transaction for in-store flights. Such flights often go unpunished for lack of effective follow-up, but also as a result of the discouragement of traders and, for the latter, represent a loss of 1 to 2 % of turnover. From then on, it will be possible for the thief to pay for a transaction of around 100 euros as well as the purchase or delivery of the stolen product in order to avoid legal proceedings. Minister, can you tell us a little more about how this project will be implemented and the agenda for the coming months? I note that Mrs Lambrecht had addressed a similar question to the Minister of Justice, which was not meaningless. So have you had any more specific contacts with your colleague Minister of Justice in this regard? Then what are the results of the Dutch model? Finally, how does the sector accept this proposal?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-04-54-commissie-ic701x.u25	Minister, the policy of prosecution of shoplifting in our country has been under discussion for some time with the business leaders. As a result of these thefts, the sector suffers a loss of 1% to 2% of its total turnover. Moreover, out of a sense of impotence many shopkeepers decide not to press charges. The obtaining of compensation is considered too difficult. In a press release dated 14 May 2017, you propose to work on a number of measures to tackle the fight against shoplifting. One of these measures describes you as a procedure for immediate sanctioning through a deal between shopkeeper and thief. You describe three scenarios, in which there is no intervention from the government, only a determination by the police or the action of the police and the police. This measure would enter into force by the end of 2017. My questions are as follows. Firstly, which of the three announced scenarios will be chosen or will they be able to co-exist? Secondly, how will the prosecution monopoly of the prosecution be protected if the trader and the perpetrator close a civil offense? Will every deal be reported to the King's Attorney? Has there been any consultation with the public prosecutors about this? Thirdly, how is the prohibition of self-direction safeguarded when claiming the amicable settlement by the trader? Finally, what route do you envisage before the friendly settlement at shoplifting becomes possible?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-04-54-commissie-ic701x.u26	Mr President, I would like to thank you for your questions on the friendly settlement mechanism, which the government decided to introduce between shopkeepers and shoplifters during the thematic Council of Ministers on security, justice and defence on 14 May. This is a matter of great concern to me when we know that the thefts make the lives of our shopkeepers miserable, but also when we know to what extent it is necessary to put an end to the feeling of impunity among those who commit more than 20 000 shoplifters every year, all the more so if we add the thefts which have not been the subject of a formalised complaint. Of course, it is unacceptable that a shopkeeper loses 1% to 2% of his annual turnover because of theft, as Mrs Jadin stresses. The mechanism of the friendly settlement that we introduce will of course be inspired by the Dutch system because the latter shows that the payment of a civil flat-rate fee of 181 euro by the thief has contributed, in support of criminal policy, to the reduction of thefts. For example, in Arnhem, the shoplifters discovered in the act have fallen by 30%. This friendly settlement mechanism, which welcomes the sector very positively, will be completed in concrete terms with a protocol to be negotiated between Justice, Home Affairs and the professional organisations representing the shopkeepers and the distribution sector. In this context, my cabinet met the Cabinets of Justice and Home Affairs on 7 June. It was decided at this meeting that my cabinet would submit a draft protocol, drawn up in close cooperation with the aforementioned organisations and the sector, to the Cabinets of Justice and Home Affairs for comments and adjustments. Once validated by all Parties, this Protocol should enter into force by January 2018. With regard to the three scenarios, and at the present stage of the case, I can inform you that the first scenario, consisting of a simple arrangement between the thief and the merchant without police intervention, should not be possible for traders who wish to benefit from the protocol. Indeed, it is clear from the 7 June meeting with my colleagues' cabinets that, of course, all the facts should be reported to the police in order to prevent multi-recidivist thieves from escaping any criminal sanction by regularly arranging – if I may say so – with each injured trader, without the knowledge of the authorities and the repressive power. In my view, it is important that the repressive power and the authorities remain informed of the greatest number of offences committed in order to remain in a position to decide correctly whether to prosecute a thief. Moreover, the obligation to report each theft to the police for traders wishing to benefit from the protocol should make control of the mechanism possible and thus avoid that some traders, if any, abuse the system and end up doing justice themselves, which is not the objective. As far as the other two scenarios are concerned, I think a priori that they will coexist. The protocol will provide, on the one hand, for a list of offences drawn up in consultation with the public prosecutor's office, for which the police will have to communicate a true report to the public prosecutor's office on their own initiative, and, on the other hand, for which a list of offences for which an ordinary finding by the police, included in a simple listing to be communicated to the public prosecutor's office, should suffice. The purpose is to verify this list of facts a posteriori. You also ask me what will happen if acts of violence occur during the transaction and how this transaction escapes any escalation of violence. Any act of violence must lead, within the framework of the protocol itself, to the drafting of a true report which must be forwarded to the prosecutor's office, who will then be able to act as he considers appropriate. This transmission will have a deterrent effect. Furthermore, even if, under the protocol itself, the offence covered by the transaction was ultimately to be the subject of a true report to the prosecutor's office - one can imagine that this will of course be the case if there is a recurrence - we know that the recognition of guilt and the compensation of victims very often influence the criminal sanctions that may be applied. All this should encourage the thief to behave properly, even if this is not an absolute rule. As for the surplus, I would like to inform you that the negotiations to be held for the drafting of the protocol will also necessarily address the question of the conditions under which the identity card of the thief may be requested by the merchant-victim and all the questions concerning, inter alia, the security guards engaged or other elements. Mrs Jadin, as you said, we are working very closely with my two colleagues (the Minister of Justice and the Minister of the Interior). In my opinion, what works in the Netherlands must be able to work here.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-04-54-commissie-ic701x.u27	I thank the minister for his more detailed response. She was so specific that Ms. Jadin did not have a reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-04-54-commissie-ic701x.u28	Minister, you are right to take a number of steps. A lot of shoplifters are reported, but too many are actually not reported, because people feel that nothing is being done about it. This measure is a good step, so that shopkeepers will feel that shoplifting will finally be punished, even with a fine, even if it is to make those people known to the courts. I think a lot of shopkeepers can't wait until the bill is ready.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-04-54-commissie-ic701x.u29	Minister, the Common Agricultural Policy is often being taken into account today. Many want a simpler policy and do not even want to wait for the 2020 reform. However, there is no agreement as to the extent to which action will be taken. For example, there is the Committee on Agriculture's proposal to delete the active agricultural clause. A number of committee members find that difficult. This clause was introduced at European level following the latest policy reform in order to distribute the available financial resources more fairly. It is feared that the clock will be reversed if the fact that one is an active farmer is no longer a condition of eligibility for European agricultural subsidies. This would open the door to an unfair distribution of resources and put young farmers at a disadvantage. Similarly, as long as agricultural subsidies are available, the only justification for these subsidies can be that they go to farmers and not to agricultural land owners. That seems to be the logic itself. If subsidies are already being granted, they must reach the right people as the farmer. Unfortunately, a majority of Member States still want to delete the clause because it would be too difficult to determine who can be called an active farmer. Although the matter is regional, as a federal minister, you are defending our position on agriculture in Europe, which is why I am addressing my question to you. What is your position on this, Minister? How concrete is the proposal? If a decision is taken, to what extent and from when are the individual Member States bound by it?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-04-54-commissie-ic701x.u30	Mrs Gantois, at the European Agriculture Council on 20 March last, the Omnibus regulation was on the agenda. In particular, that Regulation contains a section on the definition of the active farmer. Belgium has stressed that the optional active agricultural provisions are a bad signal and call into question equality between Member States. Belgium abstained in the vote on the Omnibus Regulation at the Special Committee on Agriculture on 20 April last, where the experts from the Regions were present. The regulation was then discussed in the European Parliament at the end of April. The European Parliament's Committee on Agriculture finally voted on 3 May by 34 votes in favour, 10 against and 1 abstention on the amendments to the draft Omnibus regulation, which differs considerably from the text of the Agriculture Council. As regards the active farmer, MEPs have stated that they do not want the established criteria to be made optional by Member States from 2018. The dossier therefore returned to the Council and was discussed by the experts of the Regions at the informal Council in Malta on 19 May. As you say, the Regions are fully competent in that file. That is why I invite you to ask your detailed questions to my fellow Members of the regional government.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-04-54-commissie-ic701x.u31	Minister, it is difficult for me to ask my own question in the Flemish Parliament, but I can pass it on to fellow Members. However, I would like to point out that it is for one piece of your job to defend agriculture and to ensure that resources are distributed fairly as long as they are available. In fact, it does not seem logical to me that income support should be paid to large landowners such as the Queen or the King of England or to large landowners who are not themselves engaged in agricultural activities. In Flanders, agricultural subsidies were also paid to OCMWFs, for example. This is a pity, because if the Member States again opt for the easy system, all that money will go back to the deepest pockets. Flanders wants to prevent this and will consider whether the current regime can be maintained, because I think that is a good thing.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-04-54-commissie-ic701x.u32	Minister, by analogy with direct cooperation with some Belgian fruit growers, the Colruyt department store chain has made agreements with nine local potato growers, four in West Flanders and five in Wallonia. The pilot project has a size of 5 000 tonnes of potatoes, harvested on a gross basis. The early potatoes first went into the ground with four growers in West Flanders. The Walloon colleagues are responsible for the cultivation of late storage potatoes. One of them is responsible for the packaging. Colruyt offers the growers an additional price on top of the usual contract price for industrial potatoes. The price is fixed per tonne of potatoes, washed and packaged. That is a plume on the hat of the chain of shops, which in this way wants to paint the craftsmanship of our potato growers and make them less dependent on the fluctuating market prices. Minister, we are still waiting for an initial evaluation, but the will is already present with the various parties. This is a good example of how it can be done in the agri-food chain. Are you prepared to consult with regional agriculture ministers to take steps to support and promote such projects?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-04-54-commissie-ic701x.u33	Mrs Gantois, as the Federal Minister for Agriculture, giving a rewarding price to our farmers is an absolutely priority objective in my policy. It's almost an obsession. That is why, of course, I welcome the excellent initiative of our internal Belgian distributor Colruyt, who has already played a key role in the short-term pigmeat agreement of the chain talks. The new project piloted by Colruyt aims to develop cooperation with nine Belgian potato producers, four Flemish and five Walloon, who have just planted about 5 000 tonnes of gross potatoes. These potatoes will be sold under their own brand in 78 Colruyt shops in Belgium as potatoes and fries. Colruyt's aim is to offer customers stable quality potatoes at a fair price for the producer, but above all to valorize the label Made in Belgium. Colruyt intends to draw attention to the know-how of the Belgian potato producers and to reduce the risk of price volatility by ensuring a sustainable margin. That's what's good for the company. I support this type of initiative because I am convinced that our consumers want more local products and a rewarding price for producers. I hope that this initiative can be extended to other sectors and products in difficulty. I am thinking in particular of the beef sector. Let me give you an example. On certain labels, the French supermarket chain Ovangera posters a picture of the producer. According to the latest study figures of the FPS Economy, the share of food in the household budget has been falling for decades to reach only 12% today. I am convinced that, in some cases, a purchase price of a few euro cents can make a more rewarding price possible for our farmers, who fill our plates daily and allow us to have quality food in sufficient quantities. My various contacts with the sector confirm the need for a coordinated message that lingers. I therefore support such initiatives and their coordinated approach to promotion. I am open to any consultation and action by the sectors, including coordination with and between the regions, if necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-04-54-commissie-ic701x.u34	Mr President, Minister, it may not always be the case, but here we share the same obsession and conviction. We are talking about a partnership that gives a big, beautiful voice and can resound within the whole sector. It is a project in which the benefits and risks are shared fairly. It is also the way to a fairer price and a better understanding between the producer and the buyer. The budget people spend on food is two sides. In any case, due to the success of the short chain and that is more, people are sometimes and even often willing to pay a better price for a good product. It doesn't look very bright in the meat sector. It would be nice if we could also carry out such a project there.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-04-54-commissie-ic701x.u35	Mrs Fonck has a question No 19078, but I do not see her. I have no information from the secretariat. In principle, in this case, the question falls. Mrs Gerkens will arrive in a few minutes to ask her question No 1933, which is attached to Mr Janssen's question No 19145. Mr. Janssen, you're going to be able to put it together. Under agenda item 13, we have the attached questions No 19178 by Mrs Smaers and No 19273 by Mr Janssen. Those questions have been converted into written questions. Mr. Janssen, is that right? [[Assent]] I suggest you take your number. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group).
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-04-54-commissie-ic701x.u36	Mr President, Minister, our country is experiencing a large increase in the so-called hand car washes. This type of carwash distinguishes itself from the more classic type due to its competitive prices and the fact that the car is hand-cleaned by five people. However, there appears to be no official distinction between the registration as a hand car wash or an ordinary car wash. Figures are therefore difficult to obtain and equally difficult to interpret. Reports from the Social Inspectorate last year show that the services pay great attention to hand car washes during their inspections. The number of investigations into carwashes infringements is twice as high as six years ago. Of the 1,055 controlled persons, 262 were found not to be in good health with social legislation last year. The Social Inspectorate states that indications of economic exploitation were found in the sector. An important observation is the involvement of persons brought into our country by traffickers, who are employed as false self-employed persons. Workers concerned work under unacceptable conditions and are usually housed in a backroom of the case in appalling circumstances by their employer. Minister, are you aware of the specific problem of bogus self-employment in the hand car wash sector? How many cases of bogus self-employment have been detected in the last year in this sector? Are you working on initiatives to address this issue?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-04-54-commissie-ic701x.u37	Mr President, Mr Janssen, my administration and myself are aware of the problem of hand car washes. Unfortunately, it is currently impossible to have precise statistics on this sector, given that NACE codes do not distinguish between hand car washes and automatic carwashes. They are both covered by the same NACE code 45206. However, I can tell you that, according to the figures my administration received from SIOD, 160 checks were carried out in 2016 in the general sector of the carwashes. They are part of the 386 checks carried out in the garage sector. In 2016, 291 employees and 150 self-employed persons were checked and 220 people were caught in undeclared work. Of course, we will follow the situation closely.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-04-54-commissie-ic701x.u38	Mr Minister, the figures relating to undeclared work and the controls are actually hallucinating. Although the number of checks was not high, 220 undeclared workers were found. That's hallucinating. There really needs to be a distinction between the two types of carwashes. I know it may be hard, but I urge you to fix this. The normal car washes, where people drive by car, must also comply with all kinds of regulations. I do know that it is a regional competence, because it also has to do with water collection and the like. But this is unfair competition. Besides, people are being exploited. In the course of September, I will question you again on this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-04-54-commissie-ic701x.u39	Mr President, Minister, the law on the legal definition of the craftsman came into force a year ago. Since then, interested parties meeting the legal requirements may apply to the Commission for recognition of officials. The refusal of recognition may be appealed to the Council of Officials. In response to earlier questions I asked you about this, you indicated that our country can count about 150 000 craftsmen. In a press release you stated that a year after the entry into force 732 recognized craftsmen exist in Belgium. However, 1 141 applications were submitted in the last year. Mr President, on what grounds were the more than 400 unrecognised applicants refused? How many of those refusals led to an appeal procedure? What is the total number of recognitions granted through the Council of Officials? How will you continue to approach the potential of 150 000 craftsmen?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-04-54-commissie-ic701x.u40	Minister, my question also concerns the recognition of craft activities by the Craftsmen's Commission. However, I wanted to go further in my question. Indeed, when the law allowing the recognition of artisans was passed, I had already faced Mrs. Laruelle. We discussed it when you took up your duties. I am referring to certain criteria which are in the law, which allow the recognition of artisans, and which open up almost the possibility of going up to twenty workers. It seemed to me that at that time some basic characteristics of artisanal activity were missing, i.e. to have a small team, to practice manual work with certain techniques, to develop knowledge and know-how and to transmit it through a work of accompaniment and training. This can of course only be done in small teams. What are the basic criteria for refusing or accepting a craft business activity? How many workers are present in these craft enterprises? Are there many companies with more than ten workers? Are certain sectors particularly represented by these applications for recognition? One last element in my question was about the logo. It shall be made available to the craftsman recognised by the Commission. I also heard about a label that would be required in order to be able to participate in events of artisans such as "the Vitrine of the craftsman", etc. Are we talking about the same label or are we talking about another label? I meet many artisans from different sectors and especially in the field of heritage. I know that some people find it very difficult, when they are extraordinary, to integrate into this logic of recognition, because the criteria do not correspond to what they would like. I am thinking, for example, of the number of authorized workers. They could be excluded from the "Artisan's Showcase", while they are artisans. I would like further information from you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-04-54-commissie-ic701x.u41	Mr Janssen, Mrs Gerkens, your questions give me the opportunity to take stock of certain figures. Since June 2016, 1 141 companies submitted applications for artisan recognition, 723 companies were recognised by the Commission as civil servants and 342 applications were refused. The Commission has not yet taken a decision on the remaining applications, for example because the file is not yet complete or because the company has withdrawn its application in the meantime. Twenty-six undertakings which had been refused their application by the Commission had brought an action before the Council of Officials. Nine companies were recognised by the Council. Mrs Gerkens, the reasons for the refusal are primarily related to the conditions of recognition currently included in the law; that is quite normal. As I understand it, the main reasons are as follows. - These are, first of all, additional activities which do not belong to the craft sector and which are registered as such at the Banque Carrefour des Entreprises. - The nature of the activity does not correspond to the criteria for defining craft activity as set out in the law. - Another reason is the absence of a company's registration in the Banque-Carrefour des entreprises as a commercial or non-commercial craft company under private law. - Covers activities with more than 20 employees. So these are the four criteria for refusal of recognition that are most frequently identified, even if they are not the only ones. Mr Janssen, the figure of 150 000 potential companies relates to the number of companies with fewer than 20 employees in Belgium. Not all these companies will, of course, be able to obtain recognition. Through its usual communication channels, Twitter, Facebook, the press and so on, the FPS Economy will continue to regularly point to the recognition of craftsmanship and its benefits. Mrs Gerkens, it is true that from 2018 onwards, I intend to fix the fact that only recognized artisans will still be able to participate in the "Artisan Day" - an annual event. This seems quite normal to me after an intermediate period of a few months. We didn't want to do it in 2017. In November 2018, the "Artisan Day" will bring together genuine recognized artisans. I think this will add yet another added value to this very popular and interesting day in terms of the development of artisans. As regards the average number of workers employed by recognised craftsmen, the Commission and the Council check whether the applicant company has far fewer than 20 workers, on the basis of data from the register of employers of social security. This database works with important codes. I can tell you that 49% of recognized artisans do not employ staff and 40% of them have between one and four workers, which is already about 90%. Finally, 11% employ between five and nineteen workers. As regards the sectors of activity, 30% of recognised artisans are active in the food sector, followed by the wood sector in the broad sense (13%), textiles, leather and fashion (10%), luxury products such as perfumes, jewellery and clocks (9%), and also interior decoration and furniture (6%). This is for the main categories. Recognized artisans are actually allowed to use the official artisan logo and benefit from promotion through the website or other actions. I don't know about another label in preparation, and I think it would be quite inappropriate to mix them. On the other hand, I hope, of course, that companies that are not really artisanal will lose their recognition as a result of the commitment of additional staff, hence the fact that this whole question of the ten, twelve or twenty workers is at this stage a really theoretical problem. I therefore do not intend to change this condition. I am not aware of any particular situations. I note that 11% have between five and nineteen workers, as I indicated. We know that the craft sector is really important. We have to work on a number of additional proposals, regardless of the promotion, the days, the logo, the data bank, to value artisans or to allow them to differentiate financially. That's what I'm working on. The hypothesis of VAT, social security contributions or other assumptions has been considered. We still need a little time in this area, if you will.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-04-54-commissie-ic701x.u42	Minister, thank you for your answer. I know that the problem of the number of workers is theoretical because, in fact, it does not materialize. There are not many workers. Of course, the range is wide: 11% have between five and nineteen workers. I bet we're between five and ten and not between ten and nineteen. Otherwise, I guess we'd have cut it out. If I insist, it's because it's not just theoretical. Indeed, in the definition of crafts, it is important that there be this recognition of the function of transmitting knowledge and know-how. I know artisans really care a lot about it. That is why they insist on limiting the number of workers. Ms. Laruelle had a friend at the time, who had twice 15 workers in two different settlements. This person has not been recognized as a craftsman. That's why we got that number. France's backtracked. All those who support handicrafts limit the number of workers so that the philosophy of handicrafts is maintained. It's not just theoretical. I fully agree with you in the need to consider further measures to support the craft industry. I would also like to mention this point concerning VAT on craft activities. I also wanted to draw your attention to two complementary elements. Many artisans regret that the Commission does not go there to see how the activity is going, even if the artisans receive films, pictures and a description. But I see, for example, that some people who take vocational training after their studies, make chairs without implementing the best practices (foam and fabric). They sometimes get the recognition of artisans like those who use traditional craft techniques. Vigilance is therefore necessary. There is also the question of full-time and complementary work, on which we will have to work. Does not the recognition of the craft label require that it be a complementary activity, in order to avoid unfair competition on the part of persons engaged in a complementary activity without having to live from their craft activity?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-04-54-commissie-ic701x.u43	Mr. Chair, Minister, here is a short question that will allow you to take stock of the situation. More and more self-employed people with physically heavy jobs are doubting their ability to work up to pension age. Some also see their activity decrease in intensity for various reasons: a commercial activity put at risk by other competitors such as large areas; an activity that has become non-competitive due to large companies that rely on the movement of workers. Some of these self-employed people tell me that they find themselves stuck between several possibilities: either to continue their activity until the end, although it is no longer profitable enough only to finance their minimum wage; or to stop their activity proactively but, without social rights that allow them to have a decent replacement income; or to return their activity, which no buyer will be able to profit from in the light of market conditions. You have worked on solutions to be proposed to them and you have announced measures that are yet to come. Could you take stock of the current arrangements for these self-employed people at the end of their career?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-04-54-commissie-ic701x.u44	Mr President, Mrs Gerkens, this is a complex issue that involves many analyses and different levels of power. As we know, the self-employed are experiencing multiple situations that need to be properly understood. There are health problems as well as family developments, a difficult economic or financial context, the development of a sector and doubts as to the ability to pursue a heavy occupation. Thanks to daily contact with the self-employed, I am well aware that there are also other reasons, including the one who has finished his career and who believes that he can close it by having positively developed income and professional activity, but many other reasons. Nevertheless, the issue of transmission and, above all, the possibility of adapting the end of careers remain very important. As far as the transmission of the activity is concerned, reference must be made to the federated entities; however, the end of the career or the management of his activity in conjunction with a period of incapacity for work, a heavy occupation or difficulties are fully part of our prerogatives. As you know, we worked on disability and reintegration after a period of temporary incapacity with the possibility of carrying out a residual activity when reintegration seems impossible, at least at that time. This reform has entered into force. In both cases, the authorized activity may be carried out as an independent person or as an employee. We have the first figures on this reintegration reform after incapacity for work or period of disability or after a period of disability, and these are positive. I was told that the number of self-employed persons working in this context would have increased by about 15 per cent after the reform. The second part deals with the problem of heavy trades among the self-employed. At my request, the National Pension Committee and the General Management Committee for the Social Status of Self-Employed Workers are in the process of defining criteria for recognition of the tenability of occupations, including in the context of regulation and that of self-employed persons. You have read in the press a series of proposed criteria for wage-earning activities; the same exercise is currently being carried out for self-employed persons. I have to wait a little longer before I have these criteria, which will change the age at which a pension is taken or the financial valuation of the years concerned. The other important element is the right to a part-time pension. With Daniel Bacquelaine, we are working together on this subject. I think it would be an interesting tool to respond to the personal situation of the self-employed, but also a means of transmission in a more appropriate context of the activity to the buyers or the next generation. Furthermore, regardless of this right and pending the introduction of part-time pension, you know that we have introduced the possibility of ending his career for economic reasons. I refer here to the situation you mention where the situation has deteriorated. I think you have supported this reform, and I thank you again. We have introduced, with the "bridge right", the possibility for the first time, of receiving for a maximum year an allowance comparable to the unemployment benefit. Some have called it unemployment or the embryo of unemployment for the self-employed. These various aspects are in preparation: heavy trades, part-time pensions, opportunities to stop working for economic reasons and, for people with health problems, what I mentioned in terms of reintegration after or at the same time as partial incapacity for work and disability. I intend to continue the reflections on this subject with the Regions because the transmission of the activity of an independent is the general problem of the transmission of enterprises. In this context, we are always focused on the priority of business creation. That is legitimate and it is wonderful to see that there are 20,000 more independents than last year, or 1,058,000 people. There's never been so many! However, it is very important to preserve and sustain what exists today. This is part of the transmission of independent, commercial and business activity. We are here at the crossroads of regional and federal jurisdiction, but I intend, together with my colleagues in the Regions, to try to be original and offensive in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-04-54-commissie-ic701x.u45	Thank you, Minister, for your very detailed reply. I know that it is sometimes difficult to stop you on subjects that are of interest to you. However, as President, I can show flexibility in speaking time.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-04-54-commissie-ic701x.u46	Mr President, like my colleague Mr Vanden Burre, I am interested in the problem of transmission and it is necessary to work on it. Minister, thank you for taking stock of current and ongoing measures. It is necessary to define the heavy trades and their compatibility with a gradual end of the activity. In this context, I was struck by the fact that a butcher constantly makes violent and physically stressful movements. For example, many butchers, even if they did not cut their hands or fingers during their careers, are completely muscled or severely weakened by work that is not initially considered a heavy job. I hope you will pay attention to all these aspects. I therefore welcome the fact that these workers can gradually complete their careers, and it will be all the better if the transmission is ensured.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-04-54-commissie-ic701x.u47	Mr President, Minister, the crowdfunding ecosystem is increasingly dynamic in Belgium, which is a good thing. There's the gift. There is crowdfunding, the fact for a citizen to invest at risk, but with very small amounts. I have already asked you several questions about this. And there's crowdlending too. This allows individuals to lend money to SMEs to develop their projects. In return, individuals benefit from an attractive interest rate. This loan is made via intermediation platforms. The borrower must have demonstrated its ability to repay. It can be concluded that the system is more concerned with mature SMEs than with starters, since they must be able to generate activity and income in order to repay loans. For the past three years, Look & Fin has been one of the pioneers in this field. Other platforms are working, such as Crowd'in and Ecco Nova. Crowdlending has many advantages. It allows for more flexible sources of financing than traditional banking channels. It makes it possible to mobilise public savings and, for local projects, to reach a new public, farther away than the residents, neighbours and friends of the family who are the classic financiers of starters and SMEs. It is an alternative method of financing that deserves our full attention. However, according to the press, in Belgium the crowdlending market is somewhat behind what exists at global and European level. I wanted to take stock of this situation with you. Minister, do you have any figures on crowdlending in Belgium? What is the evolution of recent years? What is the current legal framework? What do you intend to do to promote this type of funding model? What are your ways of encouraging and guiding it more in Belgium?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-04-54-commissie-ic701x.u48	Mr President, microcredit is defined by the European Commission as a credit of up to EUR 25 000, suitable for micro-enterprises, i.e. up to nine employees, and for people who wish to become independent, but who face difficulties in accessing banking services or traditional financing. This definition is used in particular in the context of the Progress Microfinance Facility launched in 2010. This scheme aims to increase the supply of micro-credits, i.e. loans of less than EUR 25 000 for the creation or development of a small business, a small business. This programme does not directly finance entrepreneurs but allows selected microfinance organisations in the European Union to offer them more credit by granting guarantees in order to share the risk of loss with the organisation. In addition, the European Commission supports capacity-building of selected microfinance institutions. At present, microStart and Crédal are receiving this European funding. You are right, there are various initiatives in crowdfunding, be it participatory, support, financial, and a series of formulas have recently been highlighted in the media. At Belgian level, there is no legal definition and statistics specific to microcredit. However, it can be considered that microcredit in the above sense still represents a marginal proportion of financing in Belgium and, in particular, of financing starters. Similarly, no official statistics on crowdfunding and, in particular crowdlining, are currently available. Some analyses that did not aim to be systematic state that the amounts subscribed through crowdlending were about €4 million in 2015 and that they would have increased to €10 million in 2016, an increase of 150%. Recent press reports even refer to a market share that would have grown by 70% in particular with regard to crowdlending. It should be noted that a federal measure still too little known exists. It directly supports micro-credits to businesses. These are the tax exemptions granted under the tax shelter under conditions and the tax exemption from interest earned under crowdlending, since much is said about the tax shelter and the deductions of 45% and 30% for equity participations. But much less is said about the "ready" part of the crowdlending part. You therefore give me the opportunity to recall that this provision entered into force at the same time as the broader provisions concerning the recognition of crowdfunding platforms, i.e. on 1 February 2017. The tax shelter for start-ups is extended to investments made through crowdfunding platforms. In addition to the advantages of the tax shelter, the new legal framework applicable to crowdfunding platforms is also advantageous for crowdlending: In concrete terms, if a loan is granted via a platform approved by the FSMA, a tax advantage will be granted in the form of an exemption from the Movable Discount on the interest on loans granted. The terms and conditions are as follows: interest on the first tranche of EUR 15 000 loaned is totally exempt from a household discount. This loan must have a minimum duration of four years. The exemption from withholding tax applies only in the case of loans granted to start-up companies within the meaning of Article 15, § 1 – 6 of the Company and Enterprise Code which has been in existence for less than four years. The SPF Economy is not currently involved in the corporate financing information campaign, but in 2018 we intend to launch a tour and information action related to the financing of businesses and SMEs in particular. This campaign will include a roadshow highlighting developments in the law of 21 December 2013 on the financing of small and medium-sized enterprises, as well as the SME tax shelter in its crowdfunding and crowdlending component, the internationalisation of SMEs and little-known tools such as running taxes for SMEs and other mechanisms such as crowdfactoring. This situation is still changing in Belgium too modestly compared to what is being done elsewhere. However, attitudes are changing and this tool has the merit of being valued.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-04-54-commissie-ic701x.u49	Minister, thank you for your answer. I was just going to say before you started your last paragraph, only one of the very important points in which it is currently hurting, is the lack of information, especially for entrepreneurs who start and have their heads in the handlebars. There is a lack of information about what exists - I am thinking of the tax shelter. You're announcing a roadshow next year for the SPF Economy, which I think is a good initiative. Let us hope that the numbers, enthusiasm and participation around these mechanisms grow because they are interesting and participatory, allowing our citizens to invest their savings in the local economy. This is a very important fact for us.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-04-54-commissie-ic701x.u50	Mr President, Minister, on Sunday, May 14, a special Council of Ministers was held on the subjects of security and justice. Several measures announced were well received by the independent defence associations or the Union des Classes Moyennes (UCM). This is all the more sensitive because, for the Independents' Neutral Union, regarding computer attacks, "SMEs are underprotected against threats that can have considerable repercussions". SMEs are often easy targets for cyber criminals. In 45 per cent of cases, they are the victims. Of the 28 measures announced by the government at the end of this extraordinary Council, some concern this subject. First, the services of the Federal Computer Security Emergency Response Team (CERT.be) will be equipped with a 24-hour call centre. Secondly, a system will alert and inform vital sectors (energy, finance, transport) about threats to critical infrastructure. Finally, the Centre for Cybersecurity Belgium (CCB) will conduct SME-oriented information and awareness campaigns. Cybersecurity measures will therefore be implemented. Minister, allow me to ask you questions about these cyber attacks and measures. Do you have any specific figures regarding cyber attacks on businesses in our country, and in particular on SMEs? More precisely, what will be the assistance of the CERT.be call centre? Could you clarify the system that will alert and inform vital sectors about threats to critical infrastructure? How will this format take place? When will the CWB's campaign for SMEs be put in place? What form will it take? What budgets do you intend to allocate to support these measures, which will necessarily have a cost and therefore a budgetary impact?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-04-54-commissie-ic701x.u51	Mr President, Minister, the cyberattacks that have been going on in recent weeks – on 12 May and 27 June – have demonstrated, if necessary, the vulnerability of a large number of economic actors. CERT.be is doing a great deal of work in the fight against these cyber attacks in our country. We observe that private companies have been impacted in organisational and financial terms by these cyber attacks. We therefore believe that it is essential to continue the structured dialogue between the various federal departments in order to help our economic actors. During the last plenary session, the Prime Minister responded to some of the questions I asked in this area, indicating that increased awareness of SMEs would be reissued. Therefore, Minister, my questions are as follows. Have you received specific information from federal police units about companies and independents following these cyber attacks? Do they enable your services to give priority to raising the awareness of these economic actors about certain aspects of protection? In addition, what recent coordinations in terms of prevention and awareness-raising have your services, as well as those of the Home SPF, been able to establish with small private companies? Are new actions planned in this regard in the near future?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-04-54-commissie-ic701x.u52	Colleagues, in addition to the Prime Minister's reply, which mentioned part of this issue a few days ago, I would like to make the following points. We do not have validated statistics, in particular because several small businesses do not necessarily report these attacks. We must note that SMEs, for various reasons, are less effective in protecting themselves and appear, in a way, to be the weak link in the fight against computer crime. In some cases, this has many extremely serious consequences for the companies concerned. I am also struck to see how these incidents are becoming more frequent, globalized and offensive in terms of the techniques used. Not only is the perimeter of SMEs very weakly protected and the phenomena are increasingly recurring, but they also pose a constant threat to growth. So we are facing a huge problem. Then I fully subscribe to the recommendations made by the Centre for Cybersecurity Belgium as well as by CERT.be. They're professionals. I am particularly pleased with the growth of their work in this area. In addition, we have a lot of work to do to raise awareness, particularly with the support of the Cybersecurity Coalition, which brings together, as you know, academia, public authorities and representatives of the private sector. I hoped that the representatives of SMEs would also participate in the work of this coalition, so as to constitute the natural relays to their members, to all those they represent. In addition, there is a need to raise awareness, coordinate initiatives, and involve SME representative structures in existing organisations. I also believe that there is a need for a real SME action plan with the targets of those who are the weakest today in the face of this threat. My administration therefore took the initiative to bring all the interlocutors together on 13 July. From that point on, in coordination with the Prime Minister and the agencies concerned, I intend to have a real plan of action for SMEs: information, awareness-raising, how to protect oneself, how to react to a threat of attack or an attack taking place, reporting of observed facts, other elements to organise a real defence strategy. At this stage, this strategy is not fixed – even if I have just mentioned a few pillars – because we want it to be fed by the contributions of these professional structures, as well as the structures representing SMEs and the bodies dedicated to them at the federal level. It is with great pleasure, because it is a real concern, that I will communicate to you what I intend to be a concrete plan, monitored, accompanied to better protect our SMEs from these cyber attacks.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-04-54-commissie-ic701x.u53	Thank you, Minister, for this very detailed answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-04-54-commissie-ic701x.u54	Thank you for this detailed answer – which you point out on many occasions, quite rightly. That's very good, otherwise what would these question-and-answer sessions be for? So I'm not complaining at all! Indeed, the main point in this cybersecurity issue is that SMEs are the most vulnerable. It is known that they have neither the financial means nor the human means to use computer engineering or software that can protect them. A specific SME action plan is therefore absolutely necessary. These are increasingly globalized attacks and cyberattacks, and you have referred to them. These are sometimes also more local attacks, for a few hundred euros. It is almost racket organized via the internet that targets very small structures. It must not be turned into a scourge. We look forward to and will discover the results of the action plan with great interest.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-04-54-commissie-ic701x.u55	Minister, I would like to add my thanks to our colleague. You are always very precise and very careful. We are facing a new form of crime that is not yet fully controlled. I said last week that it does not only affect the economic sector. It can also affect the institutions, our democratic institutions. I want to say that if a value scale is needed, it would be less damaging than it would be for the economic sector. A successful cyberattack against the economic sector is something absolutely catastrophic. The problem is that habits have a hard life, that it is quite new and that there may not yet be a sufficient number of awareness-raising activities with economic actors. That's very important right now. I know you are fully aware of this subject, which is multifaceted. Indeed, we understood that there was not just ransom. Some attacks are of this nature, but others are aimed at pure and simple destruction. The problem is therefore multifaceted, and we need specialists around us to enlighten and equip ourselves.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-04-54-commissie-ic701x.u56	Mr President, I know that the Minister is also passionate about this subject. Mr Minister, you are at the forefront of the commitment of our country and some of our European neighbours, with the aim of revising the current framework for posted workers. We know that the construction sector is particularly affected by this regulation. However, it seems that the number of foreign workers in our country is currently declining. Social dumping affects all sectors, up to the self-employed. It is essential that regional inspection services strengthen their controls beyond the current regulations. I also understand that Belgium, France, Austria, Italy are facing eleven other Member States of the European Union (Bulgaria, the Czech Republic, Croatia, Denmark, Estonia, Hungary, Latvia, Lithuania, Poland, Romania and Slovakia) which would refuse changes that would allow a rebalancing of the situation. If that is correct, I deplore a stance in favour of the individual economic advantage within our Union when a political opening has been made towards Eastern Europe. Mr Minister, do you confirm that the construction sector in our country is actually experiencing a sharp decline in the number of foreign workers working on Belgian yards? If so, how are statistics collected and used? If this trend is confirmed, can you tell us what is happening in the other sectors of economic activity in the three regions of our country? What is the status of negotiations in the context of the reform of the European Directive within the Council and the European Parliament? What are precisely the corrections that are likely to be adopted, in the medium or even short term, in order to lay down identical rules for all workers in the same national territory, whether they are nationals or foreigners?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-04-54-commissie-ic701x.u57	Mr President, I have a whole series of figures which I intend to send to you rather than to give you a lengthy communication. They are broken down by sector, by region and by nature - self-employed or employed. When we talk about statistics, there are two things we're working on. On the one hand, there are the LIMOSA statements. For each foreign worker, employed or self-employed, a LIMOSA declaration is registered with the ONSS and it should be noted that the number of LIMOSA declarations is a number that does not correspond to the number of single workers. Indeed, a worker may introduce several LIMOSA declarations during the period of his secondment. We are trying – these are the numbers I'm going to give you – to work on the A1 declarations, namely the declarations made to the INASTI and/or ONSS inspection department. Just to give you two numbers because I will give all the details in the footsteps, we observe a settlement. We had, for several years, continued to grow this number of A1 declarations in our Belgian territory. In 2015, it was 18,740. This is 18,634 for the 2016 total and 3,992 for the first quarter of 2017. It can therefore be seen that, after continuous growth for many years, we have now reached a level and we are beginning to decrease this number of forms corresponding to seconded personnel active in Belgium. I'd like to give you another figure. A few months ago, Belgium was largely at the top of the list of countries hosting the largest number of posted workers. We were in Belgium, keep in mind, more than 3.5 x more posted workers than the European average. There was therefore, independently of the European directives which are necessarily applicable to the whole of Europe, a problem of management in Belgium, control measures, etc. Today we have returned to a ratio of two to one in relation to the average. This means that some progress has been made significantly, but it also means that there is still some way to go. In the elements of the road ahead at national level, I will not take up all 24 measures in the 2016 plan to combat social dumping, but note, for example, that the commitment of the 96 inspectors dedicated to the fight against social dumping is a reality today. The controllers are engaged. Reform of inspection services (SIRS reform, etc.) is now realized. The modification of public procurement with the introduction of clauses to also activate the fight against social dumping is also a reality, since they have just entered into force with a number of other provisions of this nature. Then, as you rightly point out, there is the European level. Two cases are on the table: Directive 96/71 on labour law, and Regulation 883/2004 on social law reform. Indeed, as far as labour law reform is concerned, we have on the table the proposal made by the Maltese Presidency. It was rejected at the last Council, because a number of countries, including Belgium and France, which today took a very offensive position on the subject, which we welcome, want to go further in the fight against social dumping. This relates to the inclusion of additional elements in the salary, and to what is mandatory in the remuneration to be paid, including for a posted worker. This concerns the duration of the detachment and a whole series of positions. As you have summed up, the positions around the table are fairly fixed; some countries, mainly from Central and Eastern Europe, and other countries benefiting from the posting of workers, are opposed to tightening the rules. On the other hand, another group of countries, of which we are a part, is really in favour of making the exercise of detached activity more balanced with the activity of national workers. The current Presidency is Estonian and the next one will be Bulgarian. I do not want to be pessimistic and even less to sue our Estonian and Bulgarian friends, but I do not expect strong priorities from the current and future Presidencies on this issue. And when we talk about a directive, we still have to count, after that, with the deadline for transposing the directive. Even if it were assumed that a short-term agreement would take place, if we added the deadline for transposing the directive, we would already be in 2020, even if we were not on our way. That is why I strongly urge that we weigh as heavily as possible at national level. The ratio figures to the European average show this. We need to support Marianne Thyssen. Kris Peeters represents us on this issue and in all international negotiations. Salvation will come first from the national level, from bilateral agreements with certain countries and, moreover, from the evolution of European legislation in the context I have just recalled.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-04-54-commissie-ic701x.u58	That response was extremely interesting. This dossier will of course find a complete solution only within a broader framework than that of our country. The outlook does not seem particularly encouraging at this level. This is therefore a complementary reason for concentrating the maximum effort on the national level, as you have also summed up very well. The figures, of which I will receive the details, go in this direction. I would therefore like to thank you for your vigilance in favour of the Belgian economic sectors.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-04-54-commissie-ic701x.u59	Ladies and gentlemen, if everyone agrees, we can now first deal with Mrs De Coninck's question under item 27 of the agenda.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-04-54-commissie-ic701x.u60	Mr President, I would like to thank my fellow Members for the opportunity to put my question. Minister, I have a question about the reform of the Architects' Order. I have questioned you a number of times on this important dossier. In previous questions, I looked at the progress made in the reform dossier. You referred to the unanimous agreement of the sector itself and said that you hoped to be able to come to Parliament soon with a draft law. It is a good thing that the sector is unanimous in its agreement. After all, a proposal that has been supported from the bottom up is always better. We therefore hoped that this would come to Parliament soon. For the time being, that hasn't happened. At the end of this year, the Architects' Order will have to organise new elections. By January 2018, the newly elected council will be in office. It is not unlikely that a new composition of that council is not in favour of the agreement that is now on the table. That is why my questions, Minister, are very brief. Why has the proposal not yet been submitted to the Chamber? Can you tell me when you will have the design arranged in the Chamber?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-04-54-commissie-ic701x.u61	Ma'am, as you know, it's a difficult file. The draft law which provides for the reform of the Architects' Order as approved by the sector has already been the subject of several bilateral consultations with the various cabinets of the vice prime ministers. A general IKW is planned. Under normal circumstances, I will be able to draw up a draft at the Council of Ministers in the next few days. In the event of further fundamental comments, this will obviously have an impact on the balance achieved. In these circumstances, I hope that my fellow Members will cooperate constructively. The timing of the submission to Parliament will depend on the approval of the draft by the Council of Ministers. I am ready and I hope to be able to present my project to Parliament in September.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-04-54-commissie-ic701x.u62	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. It's a little hopeful. You're giving a pretty concrete timing. If I understand correctly, you expect to go to the Council of Ministers before the recess. We could then discuss the draft in this House at the start of the new parliamentary year. I look forward to the new parliamentary year. It is indeed an important file. I hope it all works out. In the other case, perhaps we should consider postponing the elections. If there are fundamental objections to one of the parties, perhaps we should bear that postponement in mind as Plan B and possibly extend it temporarily. I hope, however, that this is not the case and that we can start the new parliamentary year with the approval of the reform of the Architects' Order. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-04-54-commissie-ic701x.u63	The Minister's answer shows that he can also be brief and concise.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-04-54-commissie-ic701x.u64	Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to ask you a question. Mr Werner Janssen's 19334 was converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-04-54-commissie-ic701x.u65	Mr President, Minister, the dairy industry in our country has grown enormously in ten years. The number of liters of milk processed has increased by 45% since 2006 to 4.5 billion litres in 2016. Our dairy companies have invested hugely in the last decade, which is about EUR 1.2 billion. This also created an increase, albeit a slight increase, in employment. Exports increased by almost half. The negative trade balance of our dairy products decreased by 60% over 10 years. The number of litres of milk collected from Belgian dairy farms was 3.68 billion litres in 2016 at a real paid milk price of 27.6 euros per 100 litres, a decrease of 4% compared to the crisis year 2015. The dairy market regrouped at the end of last year, partly due to a drop in the supply of milk................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Fortunately, the milk price has recovered to about 35.1 euros per 100 litres, which is a boost for the sector. These are good figures, but now the Belgian Confederation of the Dairy Industry warns that the Brexit could become a heavy burden on the Belgian dairy sector. After all, the United Kingdom is the fifth most important export destination for our country. In 2016, exports to Great Britain amounted to 285 million euros, representing around 10% of total exports of dairy products. In a hard Brexit, the Sector Federation expects exports to the United Kingdom to fall significantly. In the most negative scenario, the impact could be twice as large as the Russian embargo. This means that farmers would once again be the child of the account because of a political decision. Minister, how high do you consider the risk of trade barriers such as import tariffs after the Brexit? Has any consideration been given at European level to appropriate instruments for crisis management to support farmers in the event of possible negative effects of the Brexit?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-04-54-commissie-ic701x.u66	Mr President, it is clear that Brexit will have a significant impact on agriculture and the agri-food sectors in our country, given its impact on the EU budget and the importance of the UK market for the export of Belgian agri-food products. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the United Kingdom is a net contributor to the European Union budget of EUR 7 billion a year. Because the CAP accounts for more or less 40% of the European budget, some of it will unfortunately disappear. This proportion is estimated to vary between EUR 1.2 billion and EUR 3.1 billion per year. After the Brexit, the United Kingdom will remain an important trading partner of Belgium, particularly due to its proximity. Future talks between the European Union and the United Kingdom will not take place until sufficient progress has been made in the initial negotiation phase which began on 19 June 2017. It is of paramount importance that the United Kingdom comply with its previous financial commitment to the European Union on the multiannual financial framework 2010-2020 until 2023. In the course of these negotiations, the issue of the UK's exit from the customs union and the internal market is a crucial issue. In the hypothesis of a hard Brexit, in accordance with the will expressed by the United Kingdom through its Prime Minister in February 2017, the United Kingdom will become a third country as soon as the exit takes place. It will then be able to take initiatives and lay down its own legal provisions on the import of agricultural products. This could increase trade barriers, in the form of technical and non-tariff barriers, including sanitary barriers, and in the form of customs duties. In the absence of a free trade agreement or a commercial arrangement between the European Union and the United Kingdom, these customs duties would be subject to WTO rules and could constitute a significant barrier to trade. As regards your second question, I would like to confirm that the Commission is not currently planning to develop new instruments, in addition to existing market measures under the Common Agricultural Policy. In this context, however, Belgium has drawn the Commission's attention to the specific need to develop concrete support measures at European level for European companies seriously affected by the Brexit.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-04-54-commissie-ic701x.u67	Minister, on the one hand, your answer does not reassure me immediately because you believe that the Brexit can create a number of obstacles for our farmers and, indeed, for other sectors. On the other hand, you say that people are thinking about taking measures. I hope that you will keep following things up and that there will be no waiting until it is too late. We can wait for the first stage of negotiations, but it would certainly not be correct if agriculture had to pay the price again for political decisions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-04-54-commissie-ic701x.u68	Mr President, Minister, we are living in a period of exceptional drought. The RMI recently described the drought period as very worrying and gradually dramatic for nature. That's not hard. When you drive between the fields, that concern becomes clear. The cumulative rainfall deficit over several months is very large and is called exceptional, although it is still not large enough to be recognised as a disaster. However, the drought period is causing increasing damage to agricultural crops. The result is that farmers' incomes are once again under considerable pressure. Insurance is an excellent tool to cover unforeseen events in the future and to assess the financial risk associated with such events. In this way, agriculture itself carries some risk. The agricultural organisations are therefore a party to an insurance system in exceptional weather and cultivation conditions. For this there can be European interventions for the policies. The Netherlands, Germany and France have developed such schemes, which indeed share the risk. The exemption would help determine the level of insurance costs incurred by the farmer. This can perfectly exist alongside other agencies, such as the Rampen Fund. Minister, is this something being discussed at the European Agriculture Council? What's your opinion? Have any steps been taken towards a system of weather and crop insurance?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-04-54-commissie-ic701x.u69	Mr President, Mrs Gantois, as you know, the agricultural sector has suffered from a multitude of crises since the beginning of the legislative term, including some of which are particularly serious in the milk and pigmeat sectors. Let us also mention the abundant rainfall in 2016 which has sometimes led to significant reductions in yields in certain crops, as well as the devastating frost for the horticultural sector of late April 2017 and more. In the coming years there will be the consequences of the Brexit, which will have an impact on the future budget of the CAP. Although the milk and pigmeat sector and certain horticultural sectors have been improving for a year, I can only regret the severe drought that has hit our country since the beginning of May, similar to the devastating year 1976. This drought has already caused a loss of efficiency in suckler cows and certain crops such as cereals, where the harvest has already begun. In view of this disastrous situation, I would also argue that each level of government should act within the framework of its powers to support agriculture and horticulture, which once again has difficulties. As I was interrogated by the various representatives of the agricultural sectors, I decided at my level to extend the measure providing for farmers' facilities for paying their social contributions. Farmers wishing to do so will be able to postpone their social contributions free of charge for the third quarter of 2017. Applications will have to be submitted by 30 September 2017. In my view, we should also allow farmers to adapt their social contributions quickly to their economic realities. I would also like to pay tribute to the decision of the Crelan Bank, which is close to the agricultural world. Crelan announced on 23 June 2017 that it is currently offering to its customers to postpone the repayment of the capital of their credit for a period of one year. This initiative can only be supported in these difficult times. At the European Agriculture Council of 12 June 2017, the issue of the market situation was on the agenda. Although many Member States expressed the dramatic consequences of the drought in some agricultural sectors, Agriculture Commissioner Phil Hogan said that he was following the dossier carefully and that it would be possible to reverse the current situation in the next few weeks. As far as your third question is concerned, I agree with what you have said. Articles 36, 37 and 38 of Regulation No. 1305/2013 on the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development gave the Regions of our country the opportunity to introduce an insurance system or mutual funds co-financed with European funds, which would contribute in the event of adverse weather conditions. I believe that this instrument should be used, in consultation with the sectors, in the next rural development plan for the regions, taking into account the recurrent weather problems. Mrs Gantois, you can be sure that, like my fellow ministers, I continue to follow very closely the evolution of the weather conditions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-04-54-commissie-ic701x.u70	Thank you, Minister, for your reply and for your concern for the sector. I can appreciate the short-term measures we are taking again, such as the postponement of social security contributions, but you know that I always distance myself from them, because that way we move the problems. Sooner or later, they'll come back like a boomerang. Sooner or later these contributions will have to be paid. The postponement of Crelan's payment is also a short-term measure. It is therefore not a bad measure, it can temporarily bring some relief, but it is also not structural. In addition, through State aid measures, Europe will be watching more closely the State's disaster compensation. The development of the private insurance market is a structural solution. This can be better supported by the government. It is also a development that supports the Farmers' Union and the General Farmers' Syndicate. We really need to do something about that. The farmers are out of control again. They ask for adequate cover for the loss of income in the event of calamities, through the Rampen Fund or private insurance. We can't let that go yet.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-04-54-commissie-ic701x.u71	Mr President, this is my final and brief question for today. Minister, the Agricultural Council of 12 June last discussed the report of the Task Force on agricultural markets, which was published in November 2016. European Commissioner Phil Hogan announced by the end of the year to make concrete proposals to contain unfair commercial practices, while avoiding conflicting with competition law. Minister, do you know what was specifically discussed in that report? What's your opinion on the matter? How do you see the fight against unfair commercial practices: on the basis of a code of conduct, by adapting the directive against unfair commercial practices or still through competition law? Is there any progress at European level? After all, we know that the Member States are not all on the same page. What different views were expressed at the Agriculture Council?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-04-54-commissie-ic701x.u72	Mr President, Mrs Gantois, this is a very important question. As you said, the Task Force's report on agricultural markets was published in November 2016. It proposed a series of recommendations to strengthen the farmer's position in the food chain. As a reminder, the recommendations were divided into six different areas to create opportunities for farmers: firstly, the transparency of markets; secondly, the introduction of risk management instruments; thirdly, the fight against unfair commercial practices; fourthly, cooperation in the supply chain through contractualisation; fifthly, the strengthening of cooperation between farmers; sixthly, access to finance for farmers, in particular through the European Investment Bank. I support these recommendations. During the six months following the publication of the report, no tangible progress has been made to strengthen the farmer's position in the food chain. At the Council meeting on 12 June last, I asked the Commissioner for Agriculture, together with my German colleague, Christian Schmidt, what were the Commission's concrete and strong proposals in response to Cees Veerman's report. The Commissioner replied to us that ad hoc proposals would be submitted to the Member States from the end of this year. However, in the European agricultural press review, I am surprised to note that the Commissioner announced on 20 June to the representatives of the European Parliament that proposals will be put forward from spring 2018, and not the end of 2017. In my view, that's way too late. It is, of course, unthinkable to wait until mid-2018 because this will bring us to discussions at the end of the legislative term of the European institutions. I fear that this will delay the process. As far as the content of the file is concerned, it is of course not acceptable for an operator to unilaterally impose changes to a contract on its producers, for example, or for an operator to pay its producers late. The agricultural sector is a special sector with its own rules. I am therefore open to dialogue with a view to defining binding common rules at European level. You can be sure that, together with a dozen other European colleagues, I will interperate with the Commissioner on this at the next European Agriculture Council, which will take place this month.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-04-54-commissie-ic701x.u73	Minister, I am convinced of your goodwill, but not of the fact that anything will ever be achieved in this area at European level. Everyone notes that there is an increasing trend in the number of unfair commercial practices, within that chain and that sector. Everyone agrees that measures need to be taken to address this. I hear in your reply that our Commissioner is simply pushing this forward. Even farmers who work efficiently are facing enormous difficulties because they do not have any negotiating power. They don't own anything. They're the little partner in the whole chain thing. Sometimes there are points of light, such as the potato sector and Colruyt. If we have to wait for Europe, we will never get there. There are so many countries that are taking their own measures. I put in a bill myself. Minister Peeters is prepared to take action. I propose that we proceed with legislative initiatives and no longer wait for Europe to support our sector.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-04-54-commissie-ic701x.u74	Mr Minister, some time ago you pleaded for the return of the trial period to employment contracts in order, I quote, to "promote employment and facilitate commitments." The trial period had been abolished in July 2013 and was an integral part of the delicate compromise on the harmonization of statutes, in parallel with changes related to the new notice periods for workers and employees. This had led many employers to focus on acting and fixed-term contracts, as substitutes in some way. The UCM had concluded that the deletion of the test clause had led to the proliferation of precarious contracts. Valid for both workers and employees, the trial period would be set at a minimum of 15 calendar days and a maximum of 6 to 12 months depending on the remuneration. The trial period would only be allowed for open-ended contracts. In your view, SMEs would be highly demanding of this measure. It would be a way to better start an engagement, providing security for both the employee and the employer. For trade unions, the elimination of the trial period was part of a broad compromise that would be undermined. Reintroducing this test clause, at the employer's request, would require employers to obtain other counterparties and therefore to reopen the debate. Consultations are proceeding well at the level of the Group of Ten. I read in the press today that a meeting to be held yesterday was postponed to August at the request of the union bench because it needs a little more time. Minister, what is the problem between employers' and workers' representatives? Will the restoration of the trial period be accompanied by other measures or counterparties requested by the unions? What do you think will be the way of reintroduction? How could an agreement be reached within the Group of Ten?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-04-54-commissie-ic701x.u75	Mr President, your question is very topical, as you have been able to read in the press in the last few hours. On 19 April 2016, the Minister of Employment asked the National Labour Council to assess the consequences of the abolition of the trial period and to make any proposals in this regard. In order to obtain a response to this element concerning potential counterparties, these negotiations need to be considered. As early as 2013, a package had been set as part of the negotiations between the social partners. I am going from this point of view, that the representative organisations of SMEs confirm me, and that the companies tell me regularly: with the reintroduction of a real trial period, we will create more jobs. There is currently a concern among employers about the cost to be borne for the duration of the notice, if unfortunately they were forced to separate from an employee or a worker. Despite the goodwill of the social partners, which I do not deny, I note that we are at the end of June 2017 and that there has been no proposal on this subject. As far as I am concerned – and I will discuss it with my colleagues, including, of course, Kris Peeters, who is responsible for the matter – I hope that this matter can go up to the government so that we can deal with this issue. I see an explosion in the acting period, which is motivated by various considerations, including the disappearance of the trial period and the length of notice in general. At a time when our economy is growing, when employment is becoming abundant, I think there are still additional opportunities. These involve the reintroduction of a minimum of flexibility in relation to commitment. I am also concerned about the construction sector as the temporary provision specific to the construction sector will close. At a time when a sector is confronted with social dumping, locking our provisions too heavily only increases the temptation to turn to the outside world. Combating provisions such as the test clause can only bring victories to the Pyrrhus. I plead for its reintroduction, but, as you pointed out, Mr Vanden Burre, this is a provision that I wish to balance. There is no question of making workers gadgets that could be separated for a yes or a no, under any circumstances. That is why I have proposed a very structured resolution which provides, on the one hand, that there was only a trial period in open-ended contracts and, on the other hand, that no test clause could be proposed again to a person engaged in similar functions since it is already known and the test is therefore meaningless. I also had a structured proposal that, depending on seniority, one week's notice should be given, if it is a period of 15 days to less than 6 months of seniority and if the notice is given by the employer, or three days if the notice is given by the worker, because the worker himself can also realize that this is not at all and that this is not what he was thinking. It is also a right that must be recognized. For periods of service from 6 months to less than 12 months, I propose two weeks for the employer and one week for the worker. I keep all these figures at your disposal, as well as the comparison with the old test clause as it existed. In my view, it was necessary to give maximum opportunity to social consultation. I was surprised to find that two trade union organizations had rejected him. Then I recorded the partial breakdown of social bargaining before the weekend. I hope that the government will be able to agree to take on its responsibilities in this area, but, I stress, on the basis of a balanced project. It is possible to envisage variants of my proposal, by listening to the other. However, I would like to tell you that this project represents an important lever for the deployment of employment. When the FEB announces 1.8 or 2% growth for next year, we need to put ourselves in a position not only on the labour market but also in terms of labour law to allow this growth to translate into an increase in employment. Finally, I would like to point out that an indefinite contract, even with a test clause, allows access to bank credit, projects and stabilization. I prefer this situation to a succession of temporary or fixed-term contracts.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-04-54-commissie-ic701x.u76	Minister, thank you for your answers. In the context of the impact of restoring the test clause in SMEs and on employment, like you, I now see the explosion of temporary jobs and fixed-term contracts in many sectors. In this context, we are open to the reintroduction of a form of trial period, provided that the protection of workers is maximum and guaranteed and that strong compensation is granted. This is the balance to be achieved in this case. I have taken note of your proposal, but I wonder what is blocking the discussions in the Group of Ten. You have given us little information on this. Are these particular points such as compensation or the very principle of the trial period? I would have liked to have more details on this subject, hoping that social dialogue could succeed even if, for the moment, it seems to be blocked.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-04-54-commissie-ic701x.u77	Madam President, Minister, you recently introduced a new SME Plan. With 50 measures, it aims to "facilitate" the lives of SMEs and, more specifically, to "help SMEs to focus on their core business and remove unnecessary and redundant administrative procedures." For example, it proposes the creation of a single electronic file at INASTI for self-employed persons and the automation of the demand for exemption of self-employed contributions, the access of SMEs to a digital platform for public procurement, the reduction of accounting rules for micro-enterprises. The plan also launches "My Enterprise", a portal allowing an entrepreneur or an independent person to have immediate access to the data of his business at the Banque-Carrefour des Entreprises (BCE). There is also talk of simplifying the application for a licence from the Nuclear Control Agency (NEA). I would like to learn more about certain measures. Firstly, from a practical point of view, is a document detailing the 50 measures available? If so, could you send it to the commission? Then, what form will the "digital platform for public procurement" take, and when will it be launched? What will be more precisely the "My Enterprise" platform and when will it be put into operation? Finally, what will be more precisely the simplification of the licence application with the AFCN? What will be the next steps?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-04-54-commissie-ic701x.u78	Madam President, honourable Member, I have no problem sending you the list containing about 50 measures and the projects included in the administrative simplification plan, particularly as regards SMEs. I shall forward them in accordance with the procedure which the committee will decide. You will of course observe that this is a collective work, carried out under the coordination of my departments and the Secretary of State for Administrative Simplification, Theo Francken. Clarification of a number of measures can of course be requested both from the Secretary of State and from each of the functionally competent ministers of the various provisions of the plan. You asked me more specific questions about public procurement. According to the elements set out in the plan, the intention is to foresee in the short term a clear and innovative process which allows start-ups and SMEs to take part, with a minimum of formalities, in certain public contracts – prior identification, new methods of communicating information on public procurement. As for "My Enterprise", it is a tool available free of charge at any time and anywhere by computer. According to what the Deputy Prime Minister, Minister for Employment and the Economy, has published, it allows an entrepreneur or an independent person to access immediately the data relating to his business in the Banque-Carrefour des Entreprises, to consult them but also to adapt some of them in real time. You know that some administrative information is also included in the Business Carrefour Bank; the contractor will now be able to access and modify it on-line. In addition, "My Enterprise" allows for a considerable reduction in the administrative burden on companies, since they have to adapt their data only once to the ECB, via "My Enterprise", so that all ECB administrations and users have this new information. It is an application of the single ounce principle that I have already had the opportunity to refer to in this committee. While some data can be adapted directly by the contractor, it was not possible for others. But thanks to this new system, the entrepreneur now knows immediately what service he can contact for the modification. These include changes to the company's name, social address or activity, or even entrepreneurial abilities. You also mentioned, independently of "My Enterprise" and the ECB, the simplification of the licence application to the Federal Nuclear Control Agency. According to the Secretary of State for Administrative Simplification, this measure concerns companies that work with nuclear materials and are required to apply for a licence to do so. With the collaboration of the Agency for Administrative Simplification, these licence applications will be greatly simplified by November 2017. These applications will have to be compliant and will now be made available electronically to the applicant. I am told that 5,000 such applications were submitted last year by individuals or bodies working in one capacity or another with nuclear materials. These include hospitals, radiology services, dentists and many others. Before that, they had to manually complete documents that contained up to twenty-two pages of information. It is obviously administratively obsolete, heavy and inefficient. Now, the filling is automatic when inserting the electronic ID card. Therefore, there will be only two additional pages to be completed by the applicant. This is a significant gain of time. Sometimes there are whole sections that we don't know but that deserve to be reviewed. The PSAN will, of course, continue to exercise its control in the same way and will take care of follow-up. Moreover, as far as the plan is concerned, the aim is to make it a very tight monitoring. As I said, each of the ministers is responsible for the execution of projects within the scope of its powers. Every six months, the status of this project will be assessed. I am at your disposal for information on public procurement provisions, etc. I don't want to consume too much of our time. This is a great step forward. We have planned a dynamic process to track and, where appropriate, adapt and supplement this file.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-04-54-commissie-ic701x.u79	Minister, thank you for your detailed answer. I imagine the document will be sent to the members of the committee. I'll look at it in detail and come back to you if necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-04-54-commissie-ic701x.u80	Madam President, Minister, by February 2018, the so-called IDD 2 Directive must be transposed into Belgian law. IDD stands for Insurance Distribution Directive and has to do with the distribution or distribution of insurance. Preliminary plans for the transposition of the directive, which, by the way, our party is not opposed to, are a great deal of concern for many insurance agents, whether connected or not. On the basis of the first signals we received, their commercial freedom would be further restricted. For example, they should cooperate with only one company or with up to three companies. They must also turn to a so-called real estate agent in order to be able to offer certain niche insurance to their customers. The agent thus becomes only the pass-through door of the clientele. For the consumer, for whom the agent is the familiar face of his insurance, it becomes very unclear who to address, if things go wrong. Moreover, I do not have to explain that, when customers can no longer contact their trusted agent for all their business, there is a risk that they will leave in full with their policies. I therefore have alarming figures on the effects that the new regulations can have on the agents involved and their livelihood. For example, 80% of the customer portfolio would consist of customers who have at least one policy with a company other than that of the classical principal. That part of their customer base is therefore potentially threatened. The average percentage of impacted policies, which could be transferred to the principal without disadvantage to the customer, is estimated at 20%. All this could amount to a loss of as much as 50% of the trading book, which, apart from the recurrent commission revenue, of course also affects the pension formation of the self-employed concerned. Minister, I am well aware that you will not be the penholder of the draft law on transposition; that is Minister Peeters. But don't worry, I'll ask him a lot of questions about that. In view of my history in the sector, I am very concerned about the problem. Most insurance agents and brokers have some staff and thus take the form of an SME. In this respect, I would like to draw your attention to this, because there is a danger of problems. So I wanted to know what your assessment of this situation is. Do you follow this process, the transposition of the IDD 2 Directive, although from the second plan, in order to prevent accidents?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-04-54-commissie-ic701x.u81	Mr President, Mr Klaps, at the request of the Minister for Economics and Consumers, the FSMA has indeed carried out a consultation in order to identify the views of the various actors in the insurance sector and other interested parties on a preliminary draft text transposing Chapters V and VI of Directive 2016/97/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of January 2016. I have therefore received, at their request, the various representatives of the insurance distribution sector, BZB, FVF, Feprabel and UPCA-BVVM, and they have expressed their concerns about the preliminary draft transposing Chapters V and VI. I do not intend to look here at all the comments made by the sector, but I am very cautious. I would like to remind you of a few extracts from the coalition agreement. The coalition agreement provides: "From the point of view of the consumer insurance company, the government will ensure that there is a level playing field between all the information to be made available to the consumer via the various distribution channels, for example the fees received by either an insurance broker or an insurance agent. In addition, there will be no gold-plating in the transposition of the European directives, unless a derogation from the minimum required by the directive can improve our international competitiveness without significantly extending the transposition procedure. I would, of course, like to be sure that the transposition of the directive will respect both European law, the coalition agreement and the position of our self-employed and our SMEs. On their initiative, the representatives of the distribution sector will soon provide me and the Minister for Economic Affairs and Consumers with a common set of requirements. You can be sure that we will analyse this with interest and common sense. It's a little early to give precise answers. I am very careful on this point. For more information on this dossier, please refer to my honourable colleague, Mr Peeters. I will continue to consult with our SMEs and the insurance sector.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-04-54-commissie-ic701x.u82	Thank you, Minister, for your detailed reply. We must indeed keep an eye on this problem. In this sector, as in others, the number of intermediaries is falling. For years, the number of insurance agents and brokers has been falling and this trend may be inevitable. The question is whether the government wants to counter or strengthen this trend. The first is that consumers must be properly protected. In addition, we must ensure that those who now offer insurance, under one or the other statute, are properly trained and provide correct information and that we can allow them to do their business. In the end, the consumer is a asking party to be able to contact his trusted agent or broker because in most cases he has been a customer for years and has no complaint about it. I believe that the level of customer satisfaction in this sector and in those intermediaries is quite high. That is the starting point. I will not go too far in the technical details, because I know that this falls within the competence of Minister Peeters, but the first drafts of the FSMA do raise major questions. I believe that a number of years ago a misguided approach was taken by introducing the concept of "connected agent'. Now we want to make this more explicit because we find that it does not work. I think it is time to take a step back in this respect. No gold-plating, as you rightly point out. There is no provision in the directive for us to introduce the concept of "related agent'. In itself this is already a form of gold-plating. Let alone the fact that we still have to deepen this. I will table a legislative proposal this week to deal with the problem in a different way, which I believe will allow everyone to do business, with respect for the consumer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-04-54-commissie-ic701x.u83	Madam President, Minister, according to an article in La Capitale on May 27th, only one in ten horeca establishments would ever have had to deal with a theft by clients. Indeed, many of them steal decorations, cutlery, glasses – as the Union neutral des indépendants (SNI) deplored in a press release. In 5 per cent of the 500 oreca establishments surveyed, these are even practiced daily. For one in five operators, this type of flight has increased significantly over the past two years. According to Christine Mattheeuws, president of the Neutral Union of Independents (SNI), "although it is often a question of small objects, these thefts cause economic damage which can range up to 2,500 euros per year". The five most coveted objects are salt and pepper, different kinds of decoration, cutlery, glasses and even menu menus. In addition, two thirds of the horeca establishments report that they can never take the perpetrators in flagrante delicto, as they report too late. Minister, have you been aware of this NIS release? What conclusions do you draw? What measures are you planning to take to combat this scourge? Can you provide me with the annual statistics since 2014 on the number of flights recorded in these establishments? Finally, do you plan to launch information, awareness-raising or prevention campaigns to help institutions better cope with these ravages? If so, how and within what time frame? If not, why not?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-04-54-commissie-ic701x.u84	Mr. Kir, like you, I have read the figures you are quoting, particularly those that have been disclosed by the interprofessional federation, showing that 88% of the horeca establishments have, some day, already been the victims of a robbery. In addition, I was informed of the press release by Mrs Mattheeuws, the president of the Union neutral des indépendants, on the economic damage caused by these thefts of small objects and the media reports on them. It is indeed the proliferation of these facts that causes real economic and financial damage and creates an unpleasant climate. This pressure on the manager or owner of a horeca establishment is all the more unacceptable as user-friendliness is essential. Management of this phenomenon is much more complex to implement. You can imagine awareness. I have already seen it on a number of sites or establishments where the values of the objects are clearly indicated and where it is warned that this attitude will be continued. This does not necessarily correspond to the welcome message expected in some institutions. It's not easy. The government has decided to put the protection of entrepreneurs and traders on the agenda as a matter of priority. It is in this sense that, for example, the measure on the transaction between merchant and thief was decided at this thematic council "Security". I would not be opposed to imagining provisions of this nature also with regard to horeca. Following this communication, I intend to put us around the table and discuss it with the Horeca, the representative structures as well as with my colleagues in charge of the Interior and Justice in order to find a way to respond to this scourge. You mentioned this: whether it's cutlery, saloons, peppers, glasses or others, it's still a theft, it's causing a sense of insecurity and economic damage to the self-employed concerned. I do not have a definitive answer today. I have referred to awareness-raising, the transposition of what we have done with businesses, perhaps, consultation with stakeholders, and then we will see specific measures that we will take to curb this phenomenon.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-04-54-commissie-ic701x.u85	Madam Chair, I would like to thank the Minister for the elements of his response that he has brought to my attention. The strong announcement is the announcement of the organization of a consultation with the sector through the various federal jurisdictions with, at the key, measures. I therefore propose to come back at the end of the year in order to see the progress of this consultation and the measures proposed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-04-54-commissie-ic701x.u86	Minister, according to the conclusions of a study published in January 2017 and commissioned by the Conseil de la non-discrimination et de la diversité (CNDD) d'Actiris, whose mission is to mobilise social partners, employers and employment operators with a view to enhancing equality in access to and retention of employment of the public targeted by the diversity policy, while giving cross-cutting attention to the theme of gender, entrepreneurs from diversity are not enclaved in a community. Clients reflect the structure of the population. Neither language nor recognition of diplomas is a particular problem. Indeed, in the Brussels-Capital Region, ethnic origin is a barrier to integration into the paid labour market. The unemployment rate of persons born outside the European Union is double that of persons born in Belgium. However, when looking at the figures, out of the 35,000 Brussels-based enterprises, 46% of the self-employed and SME heads are not Belgian nationals and some of the 54% of Belgian entrepreneurs are of foreign origin. Some nationalities are somewhat more represented, but the differences are not significant and can be explained by cultural reasons. On the other hand, there is a greater difference in the case of women who are not Belgian nationals: proportionally, they are twice as many as Belgian female entrepreneurs of all origins. Minister, have you been aware of this study? What conclusions can you draw from this? Have you ever taken initiatives to analyse the qualitative aspects of so-called "ethnic" entrepreneurship? If so, which ones? If not, why have no studies been conducted on this subject? What initiatives do you plan to take to support so-called "ethnic" entrepreneurship?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-04-54-commissie-ic701x.u87	Mr Kir, I have indeed read this study. Other analyses at European level are also available on this subject, including the study Promoting and Supporting Migrant Entrepreneurship, a study published in August 2016 by the European Commission. I agree with you that, in a number of situations, there are large differences in unemployment rates and in the level of people who start up as independent, depending on the origin of the persons or communities concerned. A number of obstacles are obvious. Obstacles are also linked to the perception of society, to the perception of a number of interlocutors in relation to people from diversity. There is no ambiguity in my remarks. It's clear, no misperception! There is no ambiguity in my remarks in this regard. Really, it's a situation I don't accept. This is a situation which I intend to take in hand very strongly because this type of obstacle, in a society in general, a modern society like ours, is simply unacceptable! Governments must be able to provide a number of responses in this regard. It is known that there is also a cross-section of regional and federal jurisdictions. I therefore intend to speak with my regional colleagues. As I announced on a parliamentary issue or in the context of my policy brief, I intend to take a number of steps to support diversity entrepreneurship. I believe in this entrepreneurship of diversity. I believe in the capacity of a number of young people from diversity, immigration - sometimes from the third or fourth generation. I also believe in the commercial, entrepreneurial potential of a number of communities, at the more assertive limit, perhaps by tradition, by the environment or by a number of experiences, by their entourage, etc. Above all, I believe that the best way to support integration, especially young people from foreign communities, is to offer opportunities, allow people to realize themselves in their professional path, in their projects, in their self-employment, etc. I really have ambition for that. Since the beginning of the legislature, the SME Plan, the Women's Entrepreneurship Plan, has been developed. Provisions have been put in place regarding youth, student-entrepreneur status. We intend to come with other proposals to allow young people to become independent in general. But our next goal is really – and I am listening to your ideas, Mr Kir, or those of other parliamentarians – to make a real plan with a battery of concrete measures to support diversity entrepreneurship. We will go with others to plead this. I have already met a number of success stories, independents, structures representative of entrepreneurs. I try to read about everything written on the subject, including this recent study. This is my goal with, in the background, economic activity, professional perspective. This is a personal path for a series of people. In addition, I went to a series of fairs, as in Molenbeek a few weeks ago, to meet with entrepreneurship actors. I hope to have a number of proposals that are sufficiently mature, robust and concerted to bring my stone to this common building that is particularly important to me.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-04-54-commissie-ic701x.u88	Madam President, I would like once again to thank Mr Borsus for his frank and committed response. He spoke about the obstacles and committed himself to holding a consultation with the Regions. I think this is an important step. Taking a language with these regions, which also bear a responsibility in this area, is essential. I welcome this approach. With regard to the initiatives that you are going to take, Minister, to support entrepreneurship, I hear your willingness to participate in a wide range of initiatives. You're announcing that you're ready to take action. It is important to send positive signals. In your government, unfortunately, a certain member - not to mention - presents a bad image of the foreigner and the migrant who does not correspond at all to our realities. We know that Belgium has enriched itself, through its history, with all these waves of immigration. I would like to draw your attention to two points. First, there are flagship areas, tourist areas that you have probably already supported. I am thinking in particular of Saint-Josse and Place Rogier. Yet there is an adjacent area in the territory of Saint-Josse and largely in Schaerbeek, the street of Brabant. Why not work in collaboration with the Regions? I think we have not yet sufficiently explained the importance of the street of Brabant in terms of shops. It is a street with a lot of shops and a success that goes well beyond Saint-Josse, Schaerbeek and Brussels. Many customers come from neighbouring countries. It's an ethnic street. I do not think we should be embarrassed to put this reality forward. A second element draws my attention to your comments: I think it would be good if you, as a minister, took the initiative to organise a meeting with young entrepreneurs from immigrant backgrounds. It's a way to give them recognition, but it's also a way to organize a dialogue and understand what they expect from the federal government. This could help clarify the measures you mentioned. I'll stop there and come back to you very soon.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-04-54-commissie-ic701x.u89	Minister, at the end of 2016, at your initiative, INASTI was developing a database of all active partners to combat fake self-employed people. In the area of prostitution, this fight against active false associates could help to dislodge hidden pimps and thus better protect prostitutes. In order to be self-employed, it is necessary to be able to prove certain capacities, particularly in terms of management. This obligation falls when the self-employed person is associated in a company in which one of the partners can prove these skills in question. In order to circumvent the law on pimping, some pimps would register as independents and force prostitutes to do the same by creating a common society. This allows them to circumvent social laws while maintaining their subordination to prostitutes. If we attach this problem to that of the NACEBEL codes, which do not exist for prostitutes, we understand the vulnerability of prostitutes and the importance of working in the field to defend them and protect them. Minister, is this INASTI database now finalized? If so, could it show its first results? Has she been confronted with partners active in a prostitution-related society? If so, what more can you tell us, including the follow-up of the file(s) in question? More generally, have you received any feedback on cases of false self-employed persons for activities close to the world of prostitution? Again, can you tell us more?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-04-54-commissie-ic701x.u90	Member, the register of active partners consists of a cross-reference within INASTI of data from the Register of beneficial owners in the FPS Finances and the register of active partners in the FPS Economy. The cross-checking of these data, which will be carried out at INASTI, will identify active members whose number of shares is less than 25% and thus identify the members' structures that are fraudulent. The standard case is indeed the multitude of active partners who hold only one or two shares. We find this phenomenon in social dumping, with false active partners who are actually real employees, but, as you rightly say, it can be found in other sectors. The cross-checking of these data will enable our inspection services to detect problematic situations. For computer reasons and for the implementation of the devices, the two databases I announced to you at the end of 2016 are only being set up within these two institutions. A whole series of prior technical and budgetary adjustments, as well as technical meetings, have been necessary for the implementation of the mechanism, which will be fully implemented in the coming weeks. It is therefore unfortunately too early, at this stage, for me to be able to provide you with information on what has been detected by the scheme, whether in relation to sectors affected by social dumping or in the area of prostitution or human exploitation in the context of prostitution, with the use of these active false associates in an attempt to circumvent the various legislations relating to the fight against trafficking in human beings. I must ask you, if you will, a little patience before coming back with your question, for example in the fall. But your question has allowed me to draw the attention of my services to the fact that this tool can be used to identify problematic, illegal, illegal situations and exploitation of human beings, including in the area of prostitution; and to insist that we make the fight against the use of these devices a priority, since it allows us to fight against trafficking in human beings. Thank you very much for your question. It's a phenomenon that, personally, I wasn't aware of until you alarmed me. As soon as we have been able to use the data matching and data mining identification, I suggest that you come back to me in the fall so that I can then give you more details about what we could have done, especially thanks to your intervention.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-04-54-commissie-ic701x.u91	Minister, thank you very much for your answer. These are field associations that have put the chip in my ear, after which I have allowed myself to draw your attention to this problem. It is a very good thing to have updated these records. I will allow myself to come back in the fall, as you suggest, on this issue, to uncover these false associates in connection with trafficking in human beings.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-04-54-commissie-ic701x.u92	Minister, in Belgium, prostitution is not in itself prohibited. Certain related activities such as soliciting, procuring or inciting debauchery are criminally prohibited. If prostitution is not criminally punishable, the practice of prostitution is nevertheless prohibited. Prostitutes cannot enjoy full professional status, whether they are employed or self-employed. No NACE-BEL code (Statistical Nomenclature of Economic Activities in the European Community – Belgian version) allows a prostitute to fully regularize his activity under an independent status, and employment contracts brought before a judge are frequently considered null and void for offences against morals. Therefore, one of the only ways to circumvent this legal void is for many people to register under a false NACE-BEL code, hoping that they will not be subject to control. This situation of legal DIY makes prostitutes vulnerable and is denounced through numerous investigations and by several field associations. Minister, in making a clear distinction between trafficking in human beings for the purpose of sexual exploitation and "consent" prostitution, I would like to take stock with you, as Minister of the Independents, of the situation of prostitutes. How do you position yourself on the situation of tolerated prostitution but of a lack of independent status as such for prostitutes? Would you support the introduction of a specific code or, at the very least, the clarification of an existing code, allowing a prostitute to legally register as an independent person? What difficulties are they relayed to you by the business counters, on the front line when it comes to registering prostitution under the correct NACE-BEL code? The Federal Ombudsman, in his 2016 report, recommends, between the lines, that these NACE-BEL codes be revised in the light of recent developments in economic activities in Belgium. Is such a review planned by your government? In October 2016, a point of contact was initiated by the SPF Economy regarding the determination of the correct NACE-BEL code when the activity does not fit into the classical nomenclature. Has this contact point been requested for cases of prostitutes? Minister, I asked you these two questions about prostitution because I'm trying to get my own idea of this problem. I would therefore like to have your opinion on the matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-04-54-commissie-ic701x.u93	In view of the public order nature of the social status of the self-employed, prostitutes, sex workers, may be active as self-employed workers. It is sufficient to meet the legal, sociological, definition of self-employed person, i.e. to be a natural person who carries on a professional activity in Belgium because of which he is not engaged in the links of an employment contract or a status. Once the above conditions are met, registration with a social insurance fund and a business counter must be carried out if an activity is to be carried out as a self-employed person, in particular as a prostitute or as a sex worker. Currently, there is no specific NACE code for the activities of prostitutes. The subject of the identification of NACE codes falls within the competence of my colleague the Minister for Economic Affairs. You may also request it if you have not already done so, concerning the identification of a specific NACE code. What is happening now? The Business Window Service of the SPF Economy, which serves as a contact point for business outlets in the context of the identification and selection of the correct NACE codes, has not yet, he said, been asked by persons engaged in the profession of prostitute, and about which there would be a discussion as to the identification of the correct NACE code. There are therefore no specific questions at this stage relayed by the business counters to my services, but this can of course be the case in the future. If the form for registration at the Banque Carrefour des Entreprises received by the counter does not mention the NACE code which the applicant wishes to register, the counters then propose to enter by default the NACE code 96099, which corresponds to the definition "Other personal services". They have done so since the revision of the NACE codes in 2008. The Statistics Directorate-General of the FPS Economy confirms to me that this code 96099 is the correct code under which the activities we refer to should be entered. This question is therefore not included in the magazine E5-zine (?) which is in principle reserved for clarification and information intended to clarify the activities which are subject to discussion. The notices given to business counters via this magazine are also made available to the general public via the SPF Economie website. I am told that information was also transmitted in this regard at the end of June to the Presidents, Vice-Presidents and Judges of all the commercial courts in the country, if any, dealing with matters to be dealt with in this regard. The possible revision of the NACE codes, which takes place every six years, falls within the competence of my colleague Kris Peeters. That is how this issue is dealt with today by my department and by the business counter services. Although I am listening, I have not been informed at this stage of any specific requests for identification of a more specific "prostitute/sex worker" code. They are identified via code 96099, which is a broader code in this case. Secondly, I recall the definition of self-employed and the possibility of becoming self-employed, even the obligation to be self-employed from the moment we find ourselves in the conditions that I have recalled at the start of my answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-04-54-commissie-ic701x.u94	Thank you, Minister, for that clarification. I have no definite idea; the purpose of my question was to learn more about the subject and to get my own idea. I have also asked Minister Peeters questions in parallel, but it is true that, more generally, the revision of these NACE or NACE-BEL codes must be carried out, because, in particular, through the Ombudsman, it is learned that this poses problems in practice. It will therefore be important to revise these codes fairly quickly. I will allow myself to come back to the subject of prostitution in the new year, once I have made all my contacts in this area.
