ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic604x.u1	Mr President, it is a pity that the press is not here to see who still works here. Mr Secretary of State, I will not repeat my entire question. On 10 October 2016, the Council for Foreign Conflicts destroyed the Dublin transfer of a mother of five underage children, which she also had with her for the sake of clarity. The woman had already applied for asylum in Germany shortly before her application for asylum in Belgium. Belgium therefore sent a Dublin application, which Germany accepted. The woman feared that the shelter for herself and her five children in Germany would not be okay. It therefore refused the Dublin transfer. She appealed to the RvV. On 10 October 2016, it was considered that the DVZ had infringed the obligation to state reasons. The RV therefore destroyed the transfer of asylum because of a lack of certainty that the reception would be adapted to the needs of a child. Then it remained deafeningly silent for two and a half months. It took a very short period of time to make the case active again. You responded to that, as always, knowing your temperament, by naming the case as the bankruptcy of the European asylum system, and not sending it back to Germany? What's next? or even so, we get an inverted closed limit: whoever is here must no longer be sent away. Such a speed will not be possible for the sake of clarity. The RV has not considered that a Dublin transfer to Germany is never, or never, possible, as some suggest. However, the RV considered that the DVZ had not sufficiently investigated in that case whether the wife and her minor children had specific needs and also that the DVZ had not investigated whether there was extreme vulnerability. Consequently, there was no certainty that the care structures in which the wife and her children would end up would have been sufficiently adapted. The DVZ did not succeed in convincing the RvV of this because he did not bring any concrete element. The RV considered that the DVZ had infringed the obligation to state reasons. You did not accept that the RvV then considered that the DVZ had not sufficiently motivated. You stated that the DVZ handles thousands of cases and almost all of them wins. Two cases one. Either that lidse RvV is indeed packed with activist judges, but then it is difficult to explain why the DVZ wins almost all cases. Either it is not so bad with that activism and gives the RvV clear advice. However, the situation is particularly serious, you referred to it as total insanity. It is therefore all the more striking that there was no appeal to the Council of State. If it is really up to you to do the principle, then you should have challenged this judgment with all possible means to prevent a precedent and to obtain a judgment in principle to your advantage. You will probably say that the Dublin deadline of six months within which the transfer should have been carried out had already expired, but that deadline had already expired at the time of the judgment of the RV. The timing of this case is rather striking. The judgment dates from, we cannot emphasise it enough, 10 October 2016. It was then two and a half months waiting blown until it appeared in the press. It was only after a media riot that even the European asylum policy was at stake that you said that you would see what you could do. When were you aware of this judgment? Why didn't you file an appeal to the Council of State against a judgment that you nevertheless referred to as total insanity? What is the state of play in the meantime? In the meantime, have you been able to see what can be done? Will Dublin transfers from families with children be better motivated in the future? What lessons did you learn from this?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic604x.u2	Mr President, I appreciate the presence of my fellow Members on time so that we can start our work on time. I'll have to leave this meeting around 12:15. However, I always try to be present on time. Mrs De Coninck, you asked me when I was informed of the judgment. The judgment was served on the Department of Disputes of the DVZ on 13 October 2016. The department receives 25 000 judgments each year, indicating only the most important of them, in particular those in which a new point of law arises which justifies a cassation appeal to the Council of State. The department concerned did not report the judgments in question to either the Director-General or the Cabinet, since a cassation appeal would have no practical effect in this respect. Our country only has six months under Dublin regulations to return a Dublin asylum seeker, after which our country automatically becomes responsible itself. However, the procedure for the Council of State itself has been going on for more than a year. For this reason neither the Director-General nor I myself were informed of this judgment and we have only taken note of it once it had been published in the press, more than two months after the ruling. I come to your second question. The time limit for bringing an action expired a long time ago when I heard the judgment, so it was impossible for me to order such an appeal. It is the Department of Disputes which autonomously decided not to file a cassation, not because that was not a legal ground, but simply because winning the appeal could not confer an advantage on the State. I can agree with this operational consideration, as a cassation profession involves a huge cost to the taxpayer. Having said that, I fully support my statement that this was an insane judgment, which you may note. Not only was the principle of trust between Member States not sufficiently taken into account, but the information on which the court based itself in order to describe the situation of reception in Germany as degrading was also strongly dated. The court annulled a mid-2016 decision on the basis of information from mid-2015, when the situation in Germany was, of course, completely different. I would also like to point out that neither the European Commission nor the European Court of Justice in Luxembourg nor the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg have ever raised any objections about Dublin transfers to Germany, regardless of the family composition. Apparently, the bar for some magistrates in Belgium must always and per se be higher than in the rest of Europe. It's been noted. The file was transferred to the CGVS, as this was inevitably due to the six-month period. This deadline is a serious gap in Dublin legislation and I am therefore committed at European level to abolishing it in the next Dublin regulation, which is currently being prepared and on which discussions are under way. There will be no change of policy. The judgment in question is not a settled case-law and I hope that it will not be settled case-law.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic604x.u3	Mr Secretary of State, I notice that many disputes, whether you like them or not, are based in the middle on insufficient motivation from the DVZ. That was also very clear at yesterday's hearing. You're gonna have to step up on that one.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic604x.u4	Mr Secretary of State, I submitted this question a long time ago when it was frozen in the Greek refugee camps. The failure of the EU and Belgium to spread asylum seekers across the EU through relocation was highlighted, among other things, by the extreme coldness in Greece. There is no doubt that the EU could do much better in terms of relocation. In a report of 9 November on progress, the European Commission noted that the EU Member States are not following the pace requested by Greece for relocation sites and that this gap is even widening. The European Union is therefore doing badly in the field of relocation, but Belgium is a poor pupil in the EU. By the end of 2016, EU Member States and, among others, Norway and Switzerland of the 63 000 promised relocations had effectively delocalised only 7 000 people from Greece. That's not even 11 %. On the same date of the promised 2 415 places, Belgium had effectively taken into account only 177 persons, or 7%. That's actually worse. Will you increase the relocation efforts? At what rhythm will that happen? How many places are currently being made available? Meanwhile, the ninth report on the state of play appeared. It explicitly calls for 1 000 monthly relocations to be carried out from Italy and 2 000 from Greece. What does Belgium want to do in this respect? Will the relocation accelerate at a time when Dublin transfers can be re-established on 15 March 2017? If so, at what rate will that happen for Belgium? For relocation, only asylum seekers are eligible from countries that obtain a threshold of 75% recognition during the last quarter according to Eurostat data. This now means that almost only Syrians from Greece can be restored. For example, the recognition rate of the lraqs has fallen below 75%, which means that they are no longer eligible for relocation, although there are still a lot of lraqs in Greece. Are you prepared to argue at European level to consider other nationalities for relocation? During the discussion of the Government Declaration, you stated that there would be an additional relocation from Greece for unaccompanied minors before 1 January 2017. Is that what happened in the meantime? Are there any additional plans? How many unaccompanied minors have Belgium already carried out relocations? What is the relationship between unaccompanied minors without any relatives and the so-called separated children in these planned and realised relocations? How does the number of Belgian relocations relate to the number of relocations of unaccompanied minors throughout the European Union? Is it conceivable for you to consider a relocation for unaccompanied minors of nationality who are currently not eligible for relocation? I would also like to know whether Belgium has had bilateral contacts with the Commission and whether a plan has been passed on to clarify what will happen. In addition, I see that Belgium is not on the list of good practices. Why is that? Do you have certain reasons not to pass on or realize some good practices?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic604x.u5	The question is rather long and extensive, but good. It is true that there is a lack of relocation for nationalities with a 75% degree of recognition. Currently, Iraq is no longer on the most recent list. As a result, Iraqis currently applying for asylum in Greece will no longer be eligible for relocation. However, Iraqis who had previously been registered in Greece, but whose asylum application could not yet be completed, will still have a chance of relocation. Belgium, like other European Member States, is committed to the adopted relocation decision. At European level, however, there are currently wider discussions on the solidarity mechanism, which also includes relocation. However, the discussions, including the possible introduction of a new relocation mechanism, are still at an early stage. Belgium remains convinced that solidarity and acceptance of responsibility go hand in hand. Now that the Greek authorities have completed the registration campaign of asylum seekers present on the mainland, there will be more clarity on the total number of persons eligible for relocation to other Member States. This number is significantly lower than the initially envisaged numbers in the relocation decisions, which will also reduce Belgium's share. Belgium will live up to its commitments. That is why I have also announced that I will deliver a monthly pledge of at least 100 persons to Greece and Italy, so that Belgium will reach the planned quota by the end of September 2017. I would like to make it clear to Mrs De Coninck, Mr De Vriendt and other fellow Members who ask me a lot of questions about relocation, that I repeat that Belgium will honour all its commitments. This will sound like music to them: I always said I would keep my word. A fictional figure has been mentioned at one point of time of the number of relocators needed, 120 000 to 160 000. However, rules have also been laid down, as they concern persons with a nationality for whom the degree of recognition exceeds 75%. Why is that? We will not be relocating refugees of a nationality for which the recognition rate is only 10%, because that will create a huge chaos. If these people are sent to Belgium and they are not recognized here, then get them back. That's a really wrong signal. Only then will millions of asylum seekers come to our continent. This is the logic which, for the sake of clarity, has enjoyed a very broad consensus in the European Parliament: one does not want to relocate everyone, only those asylum seekers with a nationality for which a certain degree of recognition is recorded. That's just common sense. Finally, it turned out that the number of asylum seekers in Italy and Greece was simply much lower than 160 000 and that there are a lot of black Africans there, including Nigeria, who are not eligible for asylum, with low rates of recognition. In the end, it appeared that asylum seekers eligible for relocation, for which there is a degree of recognition of more than 75%, are about 40 000. That is why there has been a recalculation of what every country must do. The opposition is asking me when I'm gonna start shooting at relocation. I don't have a problem with that; that's her assignment. I've always said there are two conditions. Firstly, in Greece there must be a solution to the influx. Secondly, the asylum crisis must be under control here. There's gotta be places. We will not be flying these asylum seekers here massively, if so much is still at the door of the DVZ in Brussels. That was always my point of view. An evaluation was made in December. A pledge has been done to Greece and Italy for at least 100 people per month, so that we are round at the end of September. At that time Belgium will have completed its quota in full. There has been a whole consultation with Fedasil to reserve those places, because 100 arrivals a month have never been experienced. That's a lot. I have already said that we will keep our word, but give me some time. I would stress once again that the relocation also depends on the sending state. We took a question from Mr Crusnière last week. I gave the example of an unaccompanied minor from Italy. I believe that this was about 60 files, of which we were only given eight by the Italians in the end. Of course, there's nothing I can do about it. Let them come; I have no problem with that. However, if the sending states do not get their case organized, then the problem lies with them. We're already sending employees. We're already helping them.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic604x.u6	Mr Secretary of State, my very great concern is that you have made a deal with a number of countries, including Turkey. We also have a deal with a number of EU Member States. I think it is particularly important that if you want to maintain the deal with Turkey, which I think is very important to you, you should honour your part of the contract. I'm afraid we'll be reorganising the great chaos. I have another argument that might surprise you. I want to be proud of my country, too. I want us to be a reliable partner and to keep our commitments as a European Member State. We must be fellow-human and do our best to solve a number of major problems together.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic604x.u7	Mr President, the Secretary of State has mentioned my name, so I would like to ask for the floor for a personal statement.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic604x.u8	In the Rules of Procedure, a personal statement is only possible in the context of plenary, not in committee meetings. The Rules of Procedure do not provide for this.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic604x.u9	I don't want to create an incident, but I think this is a little faint. We could discuss this for one minute.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic604x.u10	But the Rules of Procedure do not provide for such a thing. I did not make the Rules of Procedure. In the context of political renewal, we may be able to make proposals to deal with this in the near future. (...)(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic604x.u11	You have become a traditional party, hence.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic604x.u12	We represent very traditional values, Mrs De Coninck, but we are therefore not yet a traditional party.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic604x.u13	No one from the press is here.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic604x.u14	There's press upstairs! [[Hilarity]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic604x.u15	Mr Secretary of State, in an individual case, we will not be too quick to say whether, in our view, a visa should or should not be issued. However, in the so-called visa case of the Syrian family, we felt that you should have done so. Not so much because of the facts in that case, because we do not know them as outsiders, but because the Council of Foreign Ministers judged them in this way and because we expect a Secretary of State to also enforce a judgment of the RV. In addition, nothing prevents you from challenging an RV arrest in all possible ways. That is why, Mr Secretary of State, you would like to put the following questions. Recently it appeared in the press that the father would have stayed for two weeks in the United Arab Emirates and India, whether on business or not. It was stated that the man would be a member of the Chamber of Commerce, but that proved not to be true; this aside. However, I would like to know where that information came from today. Is that information coming from the diplomatic services or from the Foreign Office? On whose orders did that happen? Were those services encouraged to collect that information? If yes, for what purpose was this information collected, since the travels after the judgment in the RV and the appeal to the Council of State cannot therefore take that into account? How did that information end up with the mayor of Antwerp?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic604x.u16	Colleague, that information was not obtained through a Belgian diplomatic post. As you have undoubtedly heard from the press through the lawyer of that family, that family has not accepted an offer to have a safe home in Lebanon. I find that incomprehensible. I have said that several times, and I continue to find that incomprehensible.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic604x.u17	Mr Secretary of State, you have not answered some of my questions. I would like to say that the Latest News says that official documents could be viewed. The access to official documents was also cited on the website deredactie.be of the VRT. What official documents do these news sources mean?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic604x.u18	(...) [[microphone not enabled]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic604x.u19	Don't you have a further reply, Mrs. De Coninck?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic604x.u20	Questions Nos 15927 and 15928 by Mr. Stéphane Crusnière are postponed because of travel abroad. Question No 15930 by Mrs Fernandez Fernandez is postponed for health reasons.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic604x.u21	Secretary of State, according to the Foreign Office, it is important to put pressure on those who have been ordered to leave the territory, as these pressures increase the number of voluntary departures: "The controls and information campaigns of the SEFOR office are important incentives. For example, our liaison officers, the link between the municipalities and the Office of Foreigners in Brussels, are making great efforts towards the field partners. Prompt and firm action against those who fail to comply with their orders to leave the Territory should encourage them to organize their voluntary return more quickly. In addition, we find that more foreigners leave on their own initiative, after receiving information on their rights and obligations. These are explained in a brochure which they receive under the SEFOR programme when they are ordered to be expelled." Nevertheless, the ICRÉ report of March 2015 on the policy of expulsion of foreigners in Belgium recommends that the federal government and federal parliamentarians assess the SEFOR office's activity in terms of its impact on human rights (effectiveness and proportionality). I would like to take this opportunity to remind you that I told you about this at a previous meeting of this committee. Last December in my commune, some arrests took place without a search or a judicial warrant, in addition before six o'clock in the morning. These operations have caused a great deal of emotion, so much so that a committee has mobilized to release two people. Following several legal actions, one of them was finally able to leave the closed centre where she had been detained. Minister, the methods employed by the Foreign Office must respect the legality, embodied in this case by SEFOR. It is necessary to inform the mayor of the municipality in advance where the operations are desired. In December, however, the mayor of the commune I am talking about, namely myself, was not informed. I would like to take this opportunity today to ask you to urge your administration to scrupulously respect the rules on expulsion under this SEFOR procedure. Minister, what follow-up has been given to the CIRE's recommendations that had already discussed the impact of this policy on the people concerned? Is an evaluation planned? If so, to whom and when will this evaluation be carried out? What are the relations between the SEFOR office and the local administrative authorities, i.e. the mayors? Do administrative authorities receive a list of arrests that will take place in their territory? That was not the case in December. I tell you at the outset, Minister, when it happened in my commune, I did not receive anything. Nothing! In your answers, you can tell me that this is the case, but in this case, I did not receive anything. If necessary, I will come back to this particular case in a forthcoming inquiry. How are the controls organised in the municipalities? What are the powers of the officials of the Office of Foreigners during the checks? When can they take place, in other words, on what time range are they allowed? Do these controls require a warrant from the judge or a police court? What happens if you refuse to comply with controlled individuals at home? When illegal aliens are checked or arrested by the police as a result of an offence, why are they released for lack of place of detention? And at the same time, why are illegal aliens whose only offence is a lack of residence permit arrested at dawn by agents of the Office of Foreigners and the law enforcement agencies present in numbers? It's incomprehensible! On the one hand, people are released for crime, crime and, on the other hand, people who do not have a residence permit are picked up at dawn during operations. Is this policy not contradictory, since priority should be given to foreigners in illegal residence who commit criminal acts?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic604x.u22	In its day-to-day operation, the SEFOR office relies on effectiveness and proportionality. Thus, the legislative context and the framework are taken into account. Each folder is unique and must be looked at as such. The report is known to the Foreign Office. If a correction was necessary, the other ICRÉ remarks will be taken into account. According to the circular on the SEFOR procedure, the local administration shall notify the decision on removal from the territory. It thus provides all information on the notification of the order to leave the territory and draws the consequences that might result from non-compliance with that order. At the same time, the local administration completes the identification form, which contains as much information as possible on the identity of the person concerned. In addition, SEFOR raises awareness of voluntary return and invites the person concerned to visit the municipal administration in order to inform him/her about the preparation for return. For each file, the local government will contact the SEFOR office for information on the identification note, the identification form and the willingness to return voluntarily. At the beginning of the SEFOR procedure, consultation was organised for all local administrations. At present, ad hoc consultation meetings are held with local governments on specific individual issues, where there are inaccuracies in collaboration or where a specific problem arises. It is the police services that receive the mission. The local police carry out the checks at the address of the persons concerned, at the request of SEFOR. SEFOR personnel can assist them. They shall check the identity documents and any new elements contained in the administrative file. Checks at the address of the persons concerned shall be carried out from 5 a.m. onward. These are house visits with permission. A warrant is not required. If the visit is refused, the check at the address is suspended. We focus on the interception, maintenance and repatriation of illegal criminals. Unlawful persons without a judicial record may also be subject to removal proceedings. When an illegal criminal is intercepted, places are not always available in closed centres. SEFOR actions are prepared, places are reserved in closed centres. In the course of checks, priority is given to illegals who have committed offences against public order. Generally speaking, among those in detention, those who have committed acts of public order are more numerous than those who have not.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic604x.u23	Mr President, I would like to respond to Mr Franken's comments. Mr. Secretary of State, according to your remarks, house visits are allowed from 5 a.m. It certainly didn't look like a house visit, it was lived in the neighborhood like a raid. People mobilized very quickly. They didn't understand what was going on. They were two individuals who introduced files for which decisions have been made, for which one can speak of cases. They are very well integrated people in our country, their files are enriched with much evidence to this effect. What is shocking is the way it happened, at dawn, without explanation, without ever informing the mayor of the commune. I was notified of the operation on 27 December when the procedure for expulsion via SEFOR was decided on 16 December by the Office of Foreigners, which informed the person concerned on 19 December. The mayor is only notified on the 27th! I found myself without information, whereas the SEFOR procedure provides that the mayor must be notified and that this must be done in partnership with the municipality. What an impact on the inhabitants! The picture is catastrophic since people do not understand why these people are treated in this way while others, in illegal residence and living in the same territory, commit crimes and offences, are recognized offenders and are not subject to the same eagerness. Who is under pressure? Is not the same pressure on those who give their addresses, who introduce regularization files while others who live in the greatest clandestineity and commit serious crimes? It's a problem in the neighborhood. In my community and our neighbourhoods, people think that if that's how things are going, they won't open the door anymore. The way it was lived in my commune is unbearable. We were in Place Saint-Josse, in a demonstration of several hundred people who experienced this as a real raid. The way this happened was shocking. For several days, I was unable to explain what had happened because I had no information. By asking for and obtaining information, I finally thought I understood. Minister, you have the responsibility of the Foreign Office. Yesterday, on the occasion of the procedure on medical regulation, we listened to the Director of the Office of Foreigners. You share responsibility with this director. You must put pressure on your administration to comply with the rules that prevail in our state. The procedure applies to everyone, not just the person concerned. It also applies to the administration. I expect you to enforce the law, just the law.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic604x.u24	Mr Maingain is not present for the time being to ask his questions. Mrs De Coninck, you have the floor for your question. 16066 on return rates.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic604x.u25	Mr Secretary of State, you communicated the return figures of 2016. That communication took place in a particularly untransparent way, which you yourself have been suing as a Member of Parliament in the past. That's why I have some questions for you. I know that you will answer that this is a question with many questions, especially questions about figures. That's true. Then why am I asking them? Because I have already put this question in writing several times, but I do not get an answer to it. I believe you're 70 or 80 questions behind. That is why I am now obliged to put my questions orally. For the sake of clarity, if you can give me the written answers, I would even like to withdraw this oral question. It's almost due to an emergency that I have to put them this way.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic604x.u26	I thought I was almost there for the written questions?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic604x.u27	We have listed them this week, there are still some 70 questions unanswered.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic604x.u28	Seventy written questions from you?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic604x.u29	Not just me, sorry. In total, according to the site.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic604x.u30	Not just questions from you, but I think that we have worked hard on them over the last few days. Anyway, I've got the answer. You can have it, no problem. I'll take another look, but I thought I was there.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic604x.u31	Does this mean, Mr Secretary of State, that you...
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic604x.u32	I realize there are a lot of questions about numbers. Figures have been given for 2016, but we do not know what the figures for 2015. I'd like that too. If you can give them to me now, I'll spare you the trouble of reading them.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic604x.u33	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic604x.u34	Good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic604x.u35	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs De Coninck's 16066 will therefore be converted into a written question, as proposed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic604x.u36	Mr Secretary of State, a great deal has recently appeared on repatriation and return policy. Your 2017 policy paper clearly shows that this is your priority policy, including an increase of 17.7% in the budget. I would have liked to ask the following questions. Who carries out scheduled flights in the context of repatriation? Is this one tour operator, or is this task entrusted to different operators? How does the allocation take place? Who writes the assignment? Is this the Foreign Office, the federal police, or possibly another service? What is the cost per passenger? What happens to the assigned miles? Is the mission of repatriation outsourced or carried out by Belgian agents?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic604x.u37	Mrs De Coninck, scheduled flights can in principle be operated by any airline, but this is of course linked to the destination. Two booking offices are currently in operation. For some destinations, bookings are made directly from the carrier. As previously stated, the booking depends on the destination. Depending on the destination, there are several options. In case of removal without escort, the DVZ makes the booking. In case of removal with escort, it is the federal police who makes its preference and makes the booking. There is no fixed cost per passenger per route. Last week, in response to a question by Mr De Vriendt, I gave a number of figures on the estimated price. However, there are no fixed costs because airline tickets are subject to fluctuations. DVZ does not have this information. This question should therefore be addressed to the federal police. The latter is an answer to your fifth question. As far as your sixth question is concerned, the repatriation of persons to be accompanied is usually done by the federal police. If it is desirable and in the interests of the person to be removed, DVZ may also decide to send a trusted nurse, doctor or other supervisor. Force is exercised exclusively by the police. In the event of a withdrawal, the federal police will be deployed if it is carried out by a Belgian carrier. The foreign carriers themselves are fully responsible for the safety and supervision of their passengers. That has been the case for years and nothing changes.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic604x.u38	Mr Secretary of State, you are talking about two booking offices. Is this a kind of agreement on service and discounts in advance? What's with the two booking offices?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic604x.u39	That's not in here. There are two booking offices. I want to give them to you. That's AB Tours and Carlson Wagonlit Travel. I've never seen them in my life. I will continue to inform myself about how this is going to be done, but I assume that all the rules must be followed in any case. It's about big amounts, about a lot of tickets. There is also often a direct booking with the carrier, just online. Sometimes it happens in the case of difficult flights that you have to work through a booking office, but I cannot tell you how that is done. Nothing has changed there either. I think that's the same as always. I can only imagine that all the rules are being followed. It must also, as you know, go to the Inspector of Finance. I've never heard anything else, but I'll be in touch.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic604x.u40	Mr President, that is why I am asking the questions. Your common sense says that all the rules must be followed, but it is perhaps interesting to check and also to see if there may be any changes, which can be made more optimal and cheaper.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic604x.u41	Mr Secretary of State, I was present at the committee meeting with Minister Jambon. For the record, I am very much in favour of audits; and not from a negative point of view. I believe that there should be regular audits of everything we do to see what we do right, what we can do better and what we do wrong. At Catherine De Bolle's request, an audit was carried out by the police department that is repatriating refugees. There are a lot of things in that report and there are a few lines in it about the so-called gray culture. They are only a few lines, but of course the attention is drawn to that again, quite rightly. However, I think that there are much more important things in the audit report that should be looked at more closely. I have already asked a question about the miles and points, but you say that you cannot answer them and that I must ask your colleague. However, we can see whether or not there has been a change of behavior. I have the following questions for you. Were you aware of the investigation, the outcome of the report and the impact it has on the Foreign Affairs Department? If so, what measures have you taken? What measures will be taken to avoid gray culture in the future? What is the cost of repatriation? What costs were charged to the Foreign Office? What amounts are we talking about? Are these extravagances also included in the repatriation costs that deportees have to pay back?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic604x.u42	The Foreign Office was aware that an audit of the federal police of Zaventem Airport was being carried out. Neither I nor my services were aware that that audit has now been completed. We were therefore not aware of the result. In any event, the Department of Foreign Affairs does not pay for the costs of the alleged excesses. If it were true, we will certainly not repay the receipts submitted. There are agreements contained in an existing protocol between the Foreign Affairs Office and the federal police of the airport of Zaventem on the execution of the removals. The cost of repatriation depends on the destination and whether or not an escort is needed, as well as the number of escorts or escorts. That's decided by the police. There too, the policy remains the same. The costs of the removal shall consist of the aircraft tickets of the foreigner concerned, the escorts' airline tickets, where appropriate, the overnight and daily allowances of the escorts, travel documents, medical assistance where appropriate, the costs of the special flights that may in some cases be recovered from Frontex, and the costs incurred by municipal and police services for meals. The daily allowances are set out in a ministerial decision establishing accommodation allowances granted to delegates and officials dependent on the FPS Foreign Affairs, Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation, who go abroad on an official mission. A long time ago there was an expense scheme, which has been abolished for many years. Now it's just about forfaits being given to officials, diplomats, people on mission for the FPS Foreign Affairs. I think that was introduced a long time ago by someone from your obedience. I think that's correct. I honestly think this is the right way. I'm not going to change that either. The daily allowances shall not differ from the allowance received by each delegate or official on an official mission abroad. The costs of disposal recovered relate to the foreigner's plane ticket, the escort's plane ticket in case of guided expulsion and the cost of staying in the closed centre. The latter amounts to about EUR 180 a day, if I am not mistaken.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic604x.u43	I would urge my fellow Members and the services to have the right to be briefed on the results if an audit is carried out in the department in which they are involved. It is important to have confidence in audits and ensure proper follow-up. I think this is an important point.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic604x.u44	Debates of the European Parliament 16139) by Mr Kir and Mr Kir, on behalf of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. Mr Van der Maelen's 16262 were postponed at the request of Mr Van der Maelen, who is currently to be present on the Kazakhgate Committee. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Flahaux's 16141 was converted into a written question. Mrs De Coninck, Mr De Vriendt asked me to postpone his question because he was just called away. You still have a number of other questions on the agenda. I propose that the joint question with Mr De Vriendt be dealt with later this morning, when he is back here. Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Willaert's 16397 will be converted into a written question. Mrs Smeyers is not yet here, so I am applying the same procedure as the others.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic604x.u45	Mr Secretary of State, the press echoed a control action at the Brussels-Nord station, led by the Office of Foreigners, in collaboration with the Brussels-Nord police zone, the Federal Police and the Brussels-Capital/Ixelles police. According to the spokesman for the Brussels police zone: "This was a control operation of the Office of Foreigners which targeted the station in and around Brussels-Nord, in the context of the last OCAM analysis, in particular to control railway stations. Eighty-six people were taken away for further control." As usual, you broke a tweet that evoked 81 people, mainly Sudanese and Romanians. On the basis of this information, I would like to ask you a few questions. What is the exact number of people apprehended during this check? How many people have been ordered to leave the territory? How many were placed in a closed centre? How many officers of the Office of Foreigners have been mobilised for this operation? What is the cost of the means used? What are the procedures for this type of transaction with the Foreign Office? In advance, thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic604x.u46	Dear colleague, during the checks carried out at the Brussels-Nord station, 86 people were taken by the police. Three of them were immediately available after verification of their identity, 83 administrative inspection reports were transmitted to the Office of Foreigners, 21 persons were ordered to leave the territory, 20 persons received confirmation of an order to leave the territory and four persons were placed in a closed centre for their removal. The guardianship service had to be contacted for four minors. The other persons were able to dispose of because, after checking the files of the Office, it turned out that they were in order of stay. In addition to the police units, five officers of the Office of Foreigners were mobilized for this operation between 01:00 and 08:00. For this type of control, the Judicial Section of the Office of Foreigners may intervene. Staff are preparing the operation. They also conduct field visits and follow-up on cases. They are specialized in the recognition of documents and may have to verify the legality of the stay of foreigners in order to facilitate the control and to take the most appropriate decision as soon as possible. The decision itself is taken by the staff of the offices of the Office of Foreigners. They may indeed check the files of the persons concerned and draw up decisions. If necessary, the fingerprinting unit is also used. In the event of a serious problem with foreigners without a right of residence, the police may request the assistance of the judicial section of the Office. Support will then be provided according to opportunities and priorities. I would also point out that the operation is carried out in consultation with the local police and with the agreement of the mayor of the City of Brussels. The first time, the mayor asked, and obtained, a postponement of the operation for a few days due to the cold.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic604x.u47	What is the cost of the operation? Are these missions provided for in the general budget of the Office of Foreigners?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic604x.u48	I think they're getting an extra budget for night work. I need to find out.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic604x.u49	This is not a specific budget.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic604x.u50	No.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic604x.u51	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic604x.u52	Questions Nos 16459 and 16460 by Mr Crusnière were postponed. Mr Calomme is not yet present and cannot therefore ask his question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic604x.u53	Mr Secretary of State, at the moment many beds are empty in local reception initiatives of OCMW. At the request of the federal government, the OCMW's opened additional Lol sites. When the number of asylum applications suddenly fell sharply, in June it was agreed not to close these LOL sites but to fill them in as soon as possible by introducing the new reception model. Four months later, however, some 35% of the LOI sites would still be empty. At the beginning of August, Fedasil started assigning residents with a positive decision to the LOIS. There was no shortage of candidates with more than 1 000 positive decisions per month. Since 13 October 2016, on the basis of a new Fedasil instruction, asylum seekers with a high chance of a positive decision will also be assigned to the LOIS, but only on condition that they have been in a collective reception centre for four months. Here too, there is no shortage of candidates because there are over 1 200 asylum seekers with a high level of protection in the reception network. In the meantime, the OCMW's are deteriorating financially. For an empty LOL place, the OCMW receives 40% of the subsidy to pay the fixed costs. In concrete terms, this means 15 euros instead of 37 euros for an adult place. The VVSG formulates various proposals to address the vacancy situation. According to the VVSG, the minimum duration of four months required in a collective reception centre is contrary to the objective. For example, asylum seekers with a high chance of a positive decision after a four-week stay instead of four months in a collective reception centre could be assigned to a LOI. Moreover, many places in the collective reception centres will be closed in the coming weeks, while the capacity utilisation of these centres is already very high. Again, according to the VVSG, it is possible to examine whether asylum seekers cannot be assigned to the LOI. According to the VVSG, your suggestion of converting empty LOIS into ordinary rentals cannot be without a solid and concrete plan of approach. I have the following questions. What effect have the recent measures had, namely the transition reception from 29 August and the early reception of asylum seekers since 13 October 2016? How many beds are left at Lols now? How many are empty? Does the capacity utilisation increase sufficiently quickly for you? The answer to a previous question showed that in a first phase the decision to allocate only after four months in terms of the guidance of people who have a high chance of being recognised would be maintained. Is that phase over now? Will this be adjusted to, for example, four weeks as requested by the VVSG? Why are transfers only allowed in the instruction of 13 October 2016 for residents of a nationality for which the protection rate is 90%, which only applies to persons from Syria, Libya and Burundi? How is this 90 % calculated? Does this not leave certain nationalities in collective care for too long? Will the required level of protection be reduced? If so, when?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic604x.u54	Under the instruction "Transition', applicable since 20 July, 2 959 asylum seekers have been assigned to LOIS until 13 February. Subject to the instruction "High Protection Degree', applicable since 13 October, 703 asylum seekers have been assigned to reception places in LOI. In total, therefore, 3 662 asylum seekers will be able to move to individual reception within six months. At present there are 9 264 reception places for the LOIS of which 7 481 are occupied. This means that the current capacity utilisation rate is 80,175 or 81 %. By comparison, at the end of July it was 65% and by mid-October 64 %. The rate of utilization has thus increased considerably as a result of the policies we have pursued. That's what I was supposed to do. The government agreement stipulates that asylum seekers will be met collectively and that individual reception places will be reserved for vulnerable persons and recognised refugees in accordance with the new reception model. A period of four months is currently maintained. After all, it is appropriate to provide for a more than sufficient period of collective care so that the person in these centres can map out this vulnerability. An example of this is the victims of intra-family violence that are detected more quickly in a centre than in their own individual home. In addition, it is still necessary not to allow asylum seekers to have their own homes too quickly, as this creates a huge draining effect. A striking example of this is Sweden. Having said that, I remain permanently in consultation with my colleague for Social Integration, Mr Borsus. The 90% rate shall be calculated on the basis of figures from the Commissioner-General, taking into account the outcome of decisions on recognition and subsidiary protection. Other nationalities should follow the fixed route. Mrs De Coninck, you should know that I have shown the necessary flexibility over the last few months because we had to close down a number of centres and were not really there. Because our collective centres were very full, I have been particularly supportive of this over the past few weeks and months, from a pragmatic point of view, after consulting colleagues in the government and the Prime Minister. It is not in itself my principle to be particularly accommodating in such matters, but distress breaks the law. There are a number of Afghans and other nationalities in the LOIs, which explains the sharp increase in capacity utilisation. As with the asylum crisis, we are also trying to manage this phasing-out plan with the necessary sense of reality and pragmatism.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic604x.u55	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for this intention, in view of reality. To detect someone's vulnerability, one does not always need four months. So I suggest that you consider whether we can get very vulnerable people out of collective care more quickly. That is not obvious to them.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic604x.u56	Very vulnerable people are immediately entitled to a LOI. They don't go to the collective shelter, they can go straight to a LOI. That's one of the exceptions. High degree of recognition and vulnerability is one of the criteria.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic604x.u57	Then how is that done?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic604x.u58	They go to the LOI after about ten days. There is always a short observation period, in which it examines what the trauma is and how the person feels. This is necessary because the Dublin check must be done and so on.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic604x.u59	Mr President, Secretary of State, we heard from the press that a judge prevented an Algerian from being expelled without legal residence, although he would have links with terrorism. The man in question was watched by the intelligence services for ties to terrorism. He was taken to the closed center of Vottem a few months ago, with a view to his expulsion to Algeria. The man had filed a one-sided petition and could convince the judge to be sick to be repatriated, resulting in release. However, the doctor of the Foreign Office had declared him fit to fly. We've been told by the press that you've won the third-party move. In the meantime, the person concerned is also being tracked down. Mr Secretary of State, what is the state of play? You called the man a dangerous individual. Then why wasn't he arrested immediately after his release from the closed center when he effectively posed a threat? We understood that a penalty payment was made, but that it would only be applied if the man had to stay longer in the closed centre. What prevented the man from being apprehended and held in a place other than a closed downtown? Can you outline the situation? Since this is a dangerous man, I wonder why the normal procedure is not being used, in particular the extradition procedure? Will the Belgian Embassy be entrusted with a follow-up mission so that the man can be tracked down and deported? What specific agreements are being made with Algeria for situations like this? Will the Algerian authorities ensure the immediate arrest on arrival in Algeria after detection and expulsion? How then will the trial of this dangerous man be assured? What guarantees are there?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic604x.u60	Mr President, Mrs De Coninck, the person concerned has now been re-arrested. He'll be removed as soon as possible. He has also submitted a new asylum application. This is definitely not his first. It's a classic trick in a closed downtown. We'll see. The Algerian authorities will be aware of its arrival and may therefore, if they deem it necessary, take the necessary measures. We will therefore have to apply again for a laissez pass, but that should not normally be a problem. The questions about the investigation of the person concerned and his possible prosecution must be put to the Minister of Justice. If you ask me why I call this man a dangerous individual, then I have also mentioned that justification. The man's being followed. He is known in the salafistic environment in Verviers and surroundings, where a hard core of salafists does a lot of damage, as you know. It's not obvious. He has received several pvprs and I think he has also received a few convictions for drug trafficking and possession. So it's not just about the salafistic element. It's about someone who's known in the environment as not a pussy. I thus believe that it is my right to label this man as dangerous. I also mention that the man was also trapped in the closed center of Vottem, in a special wing for heavy cases. There is a wing with 11 separate cells, where there are only really dangerous people, such as salafists, radicals, but also other dangerous individuals. There he was, and now he's sitting there again. I am therefore pleased that we have been able to work so quickly. I would therefore like to thank our detectives and our police team for being able to recapture it so quickly.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic604x.u61	It's not clear to me whether he's been convicted or not. If someone was convicted, he'd still be in jail.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic604x.u62	I think so, but I'll let you know in a moment.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic604x.u63	Mr De Vriendt said he would be here again in five minutes. We'll wait and see. Otherwise Mrs. De Coninck will have to ask her question alone. Mr Hellings has indicated that he is currently asking questions in the Committee on Defence. He was supposed to be here in eight minutes. Debates of the European Parliament 16724 by Mrs Jadin is answered by the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Foreign Affairs and European Affairs responsible for Beliris and federal cultural institutions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic604x.u64	Mr. Secretary of State, on February 14, a researcher from the Institut national d'études démographiques (INED), located in France, published a survey showing that host countries are far from receiving all the misery of the world when they grant a residence permit. Indeed, there are many myths about immigration. Some point to the cost of the latter, others speak of a real invasion, two arguments that are questionable and already disassembled on many occasions. However, the study entitled "The level of education of immigrants: varied and often higher than in the countries of origin" tells us that many of the people settling in France are sometimes more educated than most French. First of all, it should be noted that the French population has 27% higher education graduates. On this basis, the researcher focused on immigration from 16 countries: the United Kingdom, China, Belgium, Germany, Romania, Vietnam, Poland, Senegal, Tunisia, Morocco, Algeria, Spain, Italy, Serbia, Turkey and Portugal. By observing immigrant groups in France, we find that the Chinese diaspora in Hexagon is the most educated with 43%, Romanians with 37%, Vietnamese 35%, Polish 32% and Senegalese 27%, the French average. Others are below this percentage, such as groups from Tunisia (21%), Morocco (19%) or Algeria (18%). In support of this, the study also draws on the work of a researcher from the Vienna Demographic Institute on the educational level of refugees who arrived in Austria in 2015. Looking at groups from Syria, Iraq or Afghanistan, the researcher measured that 27 per cent of Syrians who arrived from that country graduated from the top, compared to 10 per cent of those who remained in Syria. Same observation among Afghans (11% vs. 3%). Have you read this study? Could you share your feelings with us? In the case of Belgium, does the Secretary of State have information on the level of education of refugees who arrived in 2015 and 2016? How many asylum seekers, who have been granted refugee status since 2015 to the present, have a contract of employment and are currently employed? What is the employment rate of recognized refugees?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic604x.u65	It is always positive to conduct studies in order to visualize the problem of migration, as it is very important to know the reality in all its aspects and without taboos. The study in question, however, concerns only one aspect, namely the level of education. However, it is important to visualize all aspects of migration, both in terms of its positive impact and of the problems it can cause. It is also important to note that holding a diploma is only one of the factors related to participation in the labour market. Although this increases the chances of integration of the person concerned, other conditions are added, such as knowledge of the language, equivalence of diplomas, further training, etc. It is up to the federated entities to do their utmost to ensure that people who have been granted protection status can participate fairly quickly in the labour market. On the training of asylum seekers who arrived in 2015/2016, we do not have accurate overall statistics. However, CGRA has data collected on the basis of declarations in the processing of asylum applications, but these data are not collected scientifically. These are information collected from the persons concerned, but not verified. The CGRA's mission is not to collect data on the level of education or employment status of asylum seekers. Caution should therefore be exercised in the interpretation of these data. The data at our disposal show a great disparity in the level of education, depending on the country of origin. For some countries, there is a relatively higher number of diplomas, such as the Democratic Republic of the Congo or Palestine. For other countries of origin, the level of schooling is very low, such as Somalia or Afghanistan. Persons from Iraq or Syria have a similar level of education: between 70 and 75 per cent of those from higher or secondary education have obtained protection status in Belgium, which places them above average. My services do not have statistics on the level of professional participation of recognized refugees. This subject has already been the subject of a study by the Federal Centre for Migration which you can consult on the website Myria (Careers / The long and winning Road to employment). You were, I think, also present at his presentation. This is a very interesting study carried out with the ULB.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic604x.u66	Mr Secretary of State, although I appreciate some of your answers, I am not completely satisfied. The positive aspects of immigration should be taken into account, as the study of the Federal Centre for Migration does, as it informs us about the contribution of refugees to our economy. Initially, they are passive but, after five years, they become assets for a short majority of them. In other words, they are less consumer of social security and become more wealth-producing in our country. This issue needs to be addressed, as the French have done. It would be good if we could also benefit in Belgium from an insight into the level of education of those concerned, in particular by drawing a comparison with the Belgians. These indicators can help us demystify myths about immigration. Very often, some people hear about the cost of immigration and talk about invasion. In reality, foreigners often land with a good background, with cultural baggage. They enrich our country in economic and cultural terms. Secretary of State, I invite you to draw inspiration from the work done in France to reproduce it at home.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic604x.u67	Mr President, I would just like to clarify this invitation to tender to Mrs De Coninck. The tender will be prepared, the publication will be ready within a few weeks. This is about the tour operators. I have the meeting with the Treasury Inspectorate to proceed in this way. Originally and for many years this was not considered necessary by anyone, not even by the Court of Auditors and then the Finance Inspectors. Indeed, the individual amount per operation was too small. With the current Treasury Inspectorate, we have made the agreement to do so in the future by means of a call for tenders. So now we work with AB Tours and Carson Wagonlit Travel, and individual airlines, such as Tui, where we buy tickets directly. We are going to try to make that cheaper by spending it. That would be a good thing. In connection with the Algerian question, we are still gathering further information. I'll come back to that later.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic604x.u68	Questions Nos 16057, 16058, 16345, 16540 and 16550 by Mrs Lanjri are converted into written questions. Questions Nos 16404 and 16524 by Mrs Smeyers have been postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic604x.u69	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, you have announced in the press that an Iraqi who sympathizes with Daesh has been sent back to Baghdad. The man reportedly had contacts with suspected terrorists in Germany. Belgian deportations to Iraq have already taken place in the past, but only on a voluntary basis, while this expulsion is forced. In addition, negotiations to complete this issue lasted several months. For example, Prime Minister Michel had touched on his Iraqi counterpart, Mr. al-Abadi last September on the sidelines of a UN conference in New York. This dossier obviously illustrates a series of issues raised during the debate on the proposed law amending the 1980 Law for the Protection of Public Order and National Security. What are the guarantees obtained by the Prime Minister from his Iraqi counterpart in terms of security and possible prosecution of this person? What follow-up will be provided on site? Have any contacts taken place with the German authorities, since this individual has been in contact with suspected terrorists there? Was it possible to obtain useful information on possible terrorist networks in the European Union and Belgium in the context of this dossier? We are obviously concerned, like you, with national security and that of all our fellow citizens, but in view of the elements advanced in the press, we are talking about an individual who has had contact with suspicious people. What are the concrete elements to determine whether this person was a threat to national security? On the other hand, our country now has a whole range of judicial instruments to combat terrorism, but it is ultimately the "expulsion" option that has been retained here. Can you explain why?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic604x.u70	Mr President, Mr Kir, ladies and gentlemen, this individual case was not discussed during the meeting between our Prime Minister and his Iraqi counterpart to which I was assisting. We discussed with the Iraqi Prime Minister the return policy and migration in general. These questions are not part of my jurisdiction and those of the Foreign Office and should be addressed to the Minister in charge of Justice and Home Affairs. I do not wish to speak on questions relating to individual cases. Justice, police and security services pay close attention to the problem of radicalism and terrorism. If the judicial authorities do not take action and the person is illegally staying in the territory, removal seems to me to be the most appropriate measure. With regard to the competences and opportunities offered by the justice system, I would ask you to address the relevant minister. Without going into the details of this individual case and in my capacity as Secretary of State, I am competent to take measures that fall within my remit. If a person is illegally staying in the national territory and, moreover, constitutes a danger to public order and national security, it seems quite appropriate that I use all the possibilities that the law makes available to me for such criminals to be repatriated to their country of origin.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic604x.u71	Mr Secretary of State, your answers, of course, do not surprise me. They confirm what I said to you in plenary session: you do not have the competence of the interior, nor of the justice system, and yet you have introduced a bill that amends the 1980 law on the basis of the elements that fall within the competence of the justice and the interior. Do I have to point out that, in order to work effectively to achieve objectives, it is at the level of the Committee on Terrorism that these texts should have been worked on? If we had done so, we would probably not have reached the approval of this text as such. I said it in plenary, and I am not going to start the debate again here with you; we will come back to it at another time, but this text does not allow the fight against terrorism at all. In fact, it violates the rights of foreigners, and I will come back to it later. I will, of course, ask Ministers Jambon and Geens questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic604x.u72	Mr President, Secretary of State, the Renoboot will soon be leaving for the Netherlands. It's almost like Santa Claus. Regular care was already fully occupied, which meant that alternatives had to be sought. Everyone knew from the start that the shelter on the boat was temporary. However, I am asking questions about the way the closure of the centre in Ghent is taking place. Some 30 asylum seekers would have received this question, which is somewhat dated, that they had to move to a centre in Wallonia. After taking a few months of Dutch lessons, they now have to start again from scratch, rebuild and reintegrate everything. The fact that the procedure is taking so long is problematic. The asylum seekers have no certainty about their status and in the meantime they must always move, which is not evident in our complex country. Those involved have already had a lot of loss experiences, after which they will also have to endure this. They seek to build a life and develop good contacts and friendships. Such relocations thus work very disruptively and demotivatingly. Moreover, it is extremely ineffective. Hence a number of questions. We all think it is important that newcomers integrate into our society. We want them to learn our language, adopt our habits and adapt to our values and standards. However, they must also be given the opportunity to do so, rather than being discouraged over and over again. Moving to reception centres in Wallonia makes integration difficult. Are there no better solutions? Isn't there a shelter possible near Ghent? Why is there a jigsaw puzzle? For what reasons is there no place in the surrounding centres? How come the possession is so high/was? How long is the asylum procedure going to take? After how long a decision on recognition will be taken?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic604x.u73	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, I naturally have similar questions. The phasing-out plan for the shelter thus also affects a shelter pontoon of Reno in Ghent. There, some 32 asylum seekers were informed that they would have to move to a reception facility in the French-speaking country. Three people were to be transferred to Malmedy. Only six people stay in Flanders. You received an open letter from Ghent civil society asking for asylum seekers to be kept more or less in the region. The pontoon must be closed on 5 March. The best guarantee for a smooth integration of newcomers, as Mrs De Coninck also points out, is based on a clear route that will enter into force from day one, and immediately in a specific place. Pulling people away from an environment where they are just getting settled and forcing them to learn another language again is completely at odds with this view. In December, I asked a written question on the dismantling of the reception network. I am still waiting for an answer from you, unless I have received it in the last few days. I'll verify, but I hadn't received anything in mid-February. Mr Secretary of State, I have four questions. Firstly, what are the reasons for transferring dozens of asylum seekers from Ghent to the French-speaking country? Can these reasons justify destroying the integration course of these people? Integration must be a common objective. Secondly, how many asylum seekers were transferred to another reception facility under the phasing-out plan or another restructuring in 2016? How many of these were transferred to another language area? We would also like to see a breakdown of the figures for men, women and families with children. Thirdly, are criteria used when deciding to transfer a person to another language area? If so, which one? Finally, is the language skills of an asylum seeker taken into account when assigning a reception place, for example, whether he already knows French or Dutch?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic604x.u74	Mr President, I read that and replied by letter. My cabinet has already delivered that letter and also posted it online. Maybe you've read it. I think there is much ado about nothing here, because I think Fedasil has tried to solve this matter, as always, very correctly and very humanely. Every year many thousands of Belgian children also change places, due to a changed working or relationship situation of their parents. That happens sometimes during the school year. I sometimes look at the incredible emotional reactions involved, when people know that it's really about almost nobody. And when it comes to a number of people, there are often very good reasons for that. However, we have already had that discussion. On Monday there will be another demonstration with a sit-in in front of my cabinet. However, I am not there because I will be abroad for a few days while I think no one has moved. Six more people will be moved during the crocus holiday. The Reno shelter is closing down, and I understand that some people find it regrettable that shelters are closing down, but I think that is a good thing. Both the huge influx of asylum seekers in 2015 and the rapid decline of this influx in 2016 have posed a huge challenge for the government. The result is the inevitable movements within the reception network. As far as possible, it shall be allocated to shelters in the vicinity of the shelter to be demolished. Priority is given to families with school children. Since the capacity utilisation rate in the reception centres in the area is currently very high, there are not enough places to do so for all residents. They are then referred to other reception centres in Flanders. When all available places in Flemish reception centres are occupied, a reception place is allocated in Wallonia. Some of the residents of the Renoboot, who were assigned to Wallonia, were French speakers or asylum seekers with an asylum procedure in the French language role or residents who wished to stay together with a certain group of residents and who chose to move to the French language area. It is remarkable that you ask the question on the assumption that every asylum seeker is recognised and that every asylum seeker, from the start of the asylum procedure, must be involved in integration. I find that strange and consider that slightly different. I would like to remind you that the asylum procedure, not to say the whole asylum system, is primarily aimed at checking whether or not a person or family needs protection against a well-founded fear of persecution or a real risk of serious harm. This presupposes a thorough, quality assessment of each individual situation. It takes time. With the asylum authorities, I continue to strive to take a decision within six months for the whole procedure, including the appeal procedure to the RV. I wish to do so because I am aware, together with the asylum authorities, that longer waiting times create uncertainty for every asylum seeker. However, you will be aware that Belgium, like many other countries in the European Union, was faced with a very high influx of asylum seekers in the second half of 2015 and early 2016. For example, it was no longer possible to deal with all asylum applications within a short period of time. We want the treatment to be qualitative, and I assume that you, too, are in favour of it. In this context, Belgium, like the EU as a whole, is facing a delay in treatment. For the EU+, which is the 28 Member States including Norway and Switzerland, the total working stock currently stands at 876,000 asylum applications, of which about half are in Germany. As in many other EU countries, Belgium is catching up. Internal measures were taken to increase efficiency and additional staff, more than 200 people, were recruited for asylum services. At the DVZ there is no longer an asylum deficit. At the CGVS, the working stock decreased from more than 18 000 files in 2016 to 14 800 files. The delay has even fallen to less than 10 000 files by reducing the normal working stock of 5 000 files. The CGVS is committed to eliminating this delay by the end of 2017. Thus, despite the very high influx in the second half of 2015 and early 2016, the deficit with this government will be eliminated in the relatively short term. You will be aware that previous governments have taken a long time to overcome the backlog. The government agreement stipulates that asylum seekers will be met collectively and that individual reception places will be reserved for vulnerable persons and recognised refugees, in accordance with the new reception model. The huge influx of asylum seekers in 2015 and the rapid decline of the influx in 2016 have caused a lot of movements in the reception network. The government decided to cut the network by 10 000 places. As a result of the approved phasing-out plan, centres must be closed down and relocations made inevitable. It is therefore not the case that the closure of the Renoboot is a recent decision. It is already known from the beginning of July last year that the reception site at Ghent was of a temporary nature and would therefore be closed down. In the first instance, this phase-out was based on a natural outflow to reduce capacity in the centre. Only then followed the flow to other collective centres or to individual places. As far as possible, a reception area in the area is allocated. Priority is given to families with school children. Since in the area almost all the centres are full, there are not enough places. Those concerned will then be allocated to other reception centres in Flanders. Only when all available places in the Flemish reception centres are occupied will reception places in Wallonia be looked at. Fedasil currently does not carry out transfers of families with underage school children with the aim of emptying the centre. These transfers are scheduled during the crocus vacation, so next week. We're talking about six families with six schoolchildren. However, there have been some transfers outside school holidays, due to the recognition received by asylum seekers. If they are recognised, the collection model provides for a flow to individual reception for them. There were also transfers of asylum seekers who had been processed. In one case, it was a disciplinary transfer. Last week I read an article in De Standaard that I was addressed to a lot later. De Standaard forgot to call the cabinet for a response. It is strange that people do not call to hear how the fork really is. The people of the Renoboot had said it was a shame that I had a minor moved to Arendonk last week. After I read that, I went over what went wrong because this went against the appointments. However, it was found that the parties concerned had been deported. The parents had gone to trial and had to move to an OTP, an open return place, in Arendonk. That is the standard procedure that has been in place for years. We are not going to keep people who have been put off for months in these shelters; they must indeed leave the shelter immediately, or within a few days. That's never changed. I didn't see that in that article. In this respect, I am delighted to correct this, should the journalist ever be interested in reading this answer in the report. I find it particularly regrettable that no calls are being made to ask what exactly is going on. After all, there was a correct reason. There are no transfers outside the school vacation. A few have happened, but those were people who were recognized, going to a LOI. That's the standard procedure. They also ask to go to a LOI. Once they're done, they'll go to an OTP. That is also the standard procedure. And if there's a disciplinary transfer, it's done. The reason why residents were still transferred to Wallonia is because they were already powerful in the French language, because the language of the procedure is French, because of a contract of employment in Brussels or because they had asked themselves to move with their friends. A total of 32 persons had left for another region, i.e. not only from Reno. A total of 28 single men and women and four people from a family who left for Brussels for disciplinary reasons. Since the schooling minor of that family could continue to attend Dutch-language education in Brussels, Brussels has been chosen. Those children still take lessons in Dutch. So we are dealing with 32 cases for which there were all very good reasons. The right to education is always guaranteed in the case of the transfer of minors from school to school, as well as a follow-up from one reception structure to another. Specific statistics on transfers between reception structures located in different regions are not available. This is 32 cases in the Reno. The individual file, in particular with regard to families, is always taken into account in each move. Just because many of the residents who had to move to Wallonia already spoke French or because their procedure is in French, a transfer to it was approved. The school situation of the schoolchildren is also taken into account. This is done as best as possible in consultation with the schools concerned, taking into account the closure dates imposed. In addition, the available capacity determines where a resident can be allocated. I think once again that we are trying to do this in a very conscientious way. This is happening in my view in a correct and just way. That is what I want to say. I expect to ask more questions, because we are going to reduce and close further.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic604x.u75	Mr Secretary of State, it is not because we ask questions that we condemn directly. You start by saying:much ado about nothing: what do they make trouble about, there are so many children and families who move during the school year, think of divorced parents. I don't think this is that funny. I'm not saying it's always avoidable, but I don't think this is okay for those kids. I also do not understand your statement, given the general context. You wonder why we are talking about integration when it comes to asylum seekers whose procedure has not yet ended positively. I believe that we must make real efforts to ensure that asylum seekers, especially the children of asylum seekers, are integrated as quickly as possible. The procedure to be determined must be kept as short as possible. I think this is the most efficient way to avoid problems. After these remarks, you say that you have actually pursued a haute couture policy for all those who had to get off that boat. You went to see what language they knew, if they had children, what language role the children were in, where they could still do it in the future. I think it is very positive that people are moving in the crocus holiday, that they are giving more space to the children to adapt and so on. I think your services work better than you think they should work. We're getting better.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic604x.u76	Mr Francken, I think that your comparison with children in a normal Belgian situation who sometimes have to move is totally inappropriate. These are children of asylum seekers, families who are refugees and who often have a traumatic journey on them. That's the reality. Those people are more than average looking for security and security. As far as I'm concerned, that comparison doesn't make any sense. I don't have a problem with a shelter that closes. If it gets empty, if there's no more question, close it. When someone is finished and has to move, there is no problem. But, Mr Francken, this is 32 people in Reno, you say, some of whom have been transferred to the French-speaking part of the country. I don't think that's ideal. If your phasing-out plan is carried out in such a way that you have to move people from one part of the country to another, I would advise you not to close it so quickly and as quickly as possible. The best interests of the child must be paramount. You yourself admitted that families with children will first be taken care of in the region upon closure. If that is not possible, it will happen in Flanders. If that is not possible, it will happen in the French-speaking part of the country. You admit that this is what has to be done here for a number of people. That's too much evidence that you're going too far in your closure plans. Moreover, I do not think you answered my question as to how many asylum seekers were transferred to another reception facility in the year 2016 under the phasing-out plan or other restructuring.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic604x.u77	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic604x.u78	You don't have those numbers. So you do not know how many asylum seekers were transferred to another facility under the phasing-out plan in 2016?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic604x.u79	(...) Statistics on transfers between reception structures in the context of phasing-out are not available.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic604x.u80	Between Regions. My first question was general. My first question was not about transferring to another language area.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic604x.u81	(...) We can, of course, continue with the questions you put.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic604x.u82	That is the question that has been put. I read: "How many asylum seekers were transferred to another reception facility in 2016 under the phasing-out plan or another restructuring?'
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic604x.u83	I'll have to check. The answer to your second question is that specific statistics on transfers between reception structures located in different regions in the context of the phasing-out are not available. You're just asking for transfers. I'll check it out.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic604x.u84	Can you deliver that?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic604x.u85	Absolutely.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic604x.u86	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic604x.u87	Mr Secretary of State, according to the German press, one of the private reception companies in Essen charges about EUR 3 800 per month for the reception of an asylum seeker. Contractually, prices could even rise to EUR 9 400. This matter has highlighted the issue of quality standards for the private reception of asylum seekers. In Belgium, too, care is provided by private companies. There is a handbook for this and there have also been audits of private care. I asked you in October to get the audit reports, but I'm still waiting for an answer. In the meantime, I would like to ask you three oral questions. Firstly, what about the quality of private care in Belgium? Are the audit reports available and do you intend to release them? If not, why not? Secondly, is the charge book for private care available? If so, where? If not, why not? Thirdly, are the figures published in the press correct if private companies could charge EUR 40 per asylum seeker per day, about EUR 1 200 per month?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic604x.u88	The city of Essen in Germany had to release its contract with European Homecare to the German newspaper Bild after a long trial. This showed that European Homecare, the largest company in the care sector, could charge the city between 1 900 and 9 400 euros per asylum seeker per month from August 2015. The price depended on the occupation. Since in 2016 there was a full occupation, the effective cost was 3 800 euros per month. Belgium is also working with private companies. Fedasil applies the standard of at least 40 euros per adult per day, or roughly 1 200 euros per month. I have some questions. What is the cost of staying in collective reception structures? I would like to get an overview according to the care partner, Fedasil himself, the Red Cross or possibly other care partners, with the distinction between adults, children and unaccompanied minors. How is this cost calculated? To what extent do the rates correspond to actual costs? What is the nature of contracts with private partners? Can these contracts be terminated and within what period? Should a cancellation fee be paid?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic604x.u89	Mr President, there are a lot of figures, they are in three tables. I want to give them to you, that's no problem for me.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic604x.u90	We have worked several times in committee to get your figures to the secretariat which then distributes them to the committee members. This will prevent you from reading all the figures for the written report. They may not be included in the report, but they are distributed to all committee members. Are you okay with that?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic604x.u91	Okay, I won't read all the numbers. The real average cost excluding medical costs in 2015 for reception in collective reception structures at Fedasil is 42.3 euros. The cost is determined by a convention. For each partner who started a new collective reception structure in 2016, a one-off grant was also provided to cover the start-up costs. Since the Agency is not yet able to provide final figures for the financial year 2016 we cannot confirm whether or not the partners have remained within the foreseen budget excluding the one-off grants for start-up costs. Contracts with private partners are public contracts. Those contracts may be terminated by Fedasil or the contractor subject to a notice period of 180 calendar days. Under these conditions, the termination shall not give rise to compensation for each of the parties. All contracts with private partners have been terminated. The last private centers close their doors on March 6th in Ghent, which is the Renoboot and on April 4th in Spa and Jalhay. With regard to tariffs, prices and so on, private reception operators must comply with the requirements of the specifications and with the quality standards laid down by Fedasil, like the other host operators. Audit reports shall be prepared and shared with the receiving operator. Right now, they're not being made public. The handbook is freely available when the public contract is issued and is published on the e-Notification Public Procurement portal. If you google, you can find the ledger, interesting to read. Tenderers were invited to propose their price, taking into account the specifications and the specific technical provisions, which ensured a fixed and similar level of performance for all centres. In addition to the price, a second award criterion applies, namely quality: compliance with quality standards, time-limit for the operationalisation of the site, etc. You can view the prices that were set to the private partners. There is a difference between a centre for unaccompanied minors and a regular centre. I don't think those prices are gonna jump out of the band at all. I also have the prices of the Red Cross and the LOIs, so you can look at them all. There is complete transparency.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic604x.u92	So either you deliver them on paper and we scan them in, or you will email them and we will distribute them around.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic604x.u93	Mr Secretary of State, I asked you to get the audit reports. Can that be agreed?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic604x.u94	I don't know. The audit reports from the private partners? I'll have to check. I think so.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic604x.u95	I asked you that now and had already put the question in writing in October. I have not yet received an answer to that, even now. That is why I put the question orally today.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic604x.u96	I'll check it out.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic604x.u97	Can I get that answer soon?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic604x.u98	You'll get an answer today. I would like to stress that everything is already closed or closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic604x.u99	Mr Secretary of State, I will read the report because I find it rather unclear now.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic604x.u100	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your flexibility in organising the questions. Mr Secretary of State, the Béjar reception centre in Neder-Over-Heembeek, run by the Social Samu on behalf of Fedasil, is a pre-reception centre where asylum seekers are housed pending the registration of their asylum application and the designation of a reception centre. This is a large room in which beds are arranged separated from each other by a sheet. The floor is concrete, the places are dusty and the people who live there have no privacy. At the end of August 2015, the number of asylum applications per day was very high: the Foreign Office registered 250 asylum applications per day. This number has decreased to a maximum of 150 per day. In February 2016, the Office of Foreigners recorded only about 60 per day, due to the saturation of the host network. Asylum seekers who had not seen their asylum application registered were on the street or were welcomed to the WTC3. Subsequently, the Béjar centre took over, which was a good thing. Since then, the number of asylum applications has been lower. The CGRA website mentions that in October 2016, the Foreign Office registered 1,705 asylum seekers in Belgium, which means an average of 142 asylum seekers per day. Today, however, the system has not changed. The Neder-Over-Heembeek pre-reception centre still exists and asylum seekers who apply for asylum do not see their asylum application registered the same day and are obliged to reside for a few days, sometimes up to three weeks, in this pre-reception centre. Mr Secretary of State, why is the registration of asylum applications not now on the day the asylum seeker presents himself at the Foreign Office, but a few days or even a few weeks later? How many asylum applications does the Foreigners Office currently register per day? Is the number of asylum applications registered per day by the Foreign Office linked to the saturation of the reception network or not? How many pre-reception places are currently available? Do you intend to maintain the pre-reception centres in a structural manner, which are initially supposed to receive asylum seekers as a matter of urgency when, due to the influx, the centres are saturated? If not, when do you intend to end this type of welcome? Why are asylum seekers still staying in this pre-reception centre in Neder-Over-Heembeek?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic604x.u101	Mr Hellings, the first step is to carry out security screening and screening by means of fingerprinting. Approximately 70 people are invited every day. This number is not due to network saturation, but it is simply the daily average flow at the pre-recording level. This is indeed one of the parameters of the Bejar pre-reception centre run by the Samusocial. It has 250 reception places: 95 places are currently occupied and 155 are therefore available. As of 14 February, the network had 25,607 reception places of which 21,744 are occupied. The occupancy rate is therefore 85%. It is not intended to terminate the pre-reception since Fedasil only grants material assistance once the asylum application has been registered by the Foreigners' Office.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic604x.u102	Mr Secretary of State, the reason why the pre-reception centres were established was that a massive influx had to be faced. Mr. De Vriendt, myself and other members of opposition parties, had been understanding their establishment, since it was the only way to prevent asylum seekers from finding themselves on the street. We remember the humanitarianly catastrophic episode of Maximilian Park. Therefore, it is normal, in the event of a mass influx, as was the case in late summer and autumn 2015, for asylum seekers to be pre-registered and then sent to a pre-reception centre. Today, there has been a marked decline in the flow. The pre-reception centre is no longer justified. I understand that the reason why you maintain the system where the asylum seeker finds himself in limbos is security; that is, the need for you to provide an intermediate period between pre-reception and reception, fingerprint checks and the official introduction of an asylum application. This is the first time we've discussed it. I am not sure that this security reason corresponds to the correct application of the international conventions to which Belgium accedes and the laws applied in Belgium under those same conventions. We'll have to check it out. In any case, since the situation had changed, it would be logical for all asylum-seekers seeking asylum to be registered on the same day as they set foot in it.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic604x.u103	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, it is my responsibility that you have recently announced the introduction of new reforms within the framework of your powers relating to administrative simplification. In Belgium, the formalities that public servants, citizens and businesses are required to carry out in order to comply with the rules imposed by the authorities are indeed important. I therefore welcome this package of reforms, which should make the administration less burdensome and, de facto, should, in the long run, reduce administrative burdens. While these have been significantly reduced in recent years, they still accounted for more than €5 billion, or about 1.3% of GDP, in 2015. Mr Secretary of State, what are the measures involved in this new reform of administrative simplification? Can you give us an outline? What general timetable has been set for the implementation of the proposed arrangements? Finally, what is the budget mobilized to meet the government's objectives?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic604x.u104	Mr Calomne, I refer you to the Federal Action Plan on Administrative Simplification, which was attached to my policy note. This Action Plan includes an overview of the most important horizontal issues, as well as a description of the current status and concrete planning. In addition, an overview of the projects already carried out during this legislature was attached. As far as the budgets for the simplification policy are concerned, as far as my powers are concerned, I refer you to the resources approved in the budget for the functions of the Agency for Administrative Simplification (ASA) (Program 2.32.1 of the Prime Minister's Chancellery FPS). For 2017, the SAA has an overall budget of EUR 3.5 million, of which EUR 1.1 million is allocated to the treatment of staff members, EUR 150 000 to operating costs and EUR 2.2 million to coordinate and carry out the actions mentioned in the plan in question. In addition to this budget, resources are provided in other departments to achieve the simplification objectives set out in the government agreement.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic604x.u105	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for your answers. I will take note of the report and the note to which you referred.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic604x.u106	Mr Secretary of State, this is a rather short question. I'm shocked by your reaction in the press. A number of previous debates in our committee have shown that minors in asylum centres are sometimes obliged to move, as a punishment, as a disciplinary measure.I questioned you about this in committee last time. You said at that time that you were shocked by the high number of minors, over 800, both unaccompanied minors and children with parents, at just under a year's time, and you gave the impression that you wanted to do so. I am now reading in the press again such a harsh statement from you, namely that you do not want a hug and a pamper policy. Allow me to be disappointed. I felt that we had a common objective here, namely to reduce the number of disciplinary measures. Hence my questions. Why do you use such words, when it must be a widespread concern to make children move as little as possible? What measures will you take to prevent it from coming to this?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic604x.u107	Mr De Vriendt, when asylum seekers arrive in a reception structure, they are clearly explained that there are rules in place at the reception centre to ensure the viability and safety of the person himself and also of his fellow residents. The person seeking reception in a reception centre must agree to the rules of procedure and sign the rules of procedure, including the consequences of non-compliance. The phenomenon of sanctions is by no means a new phenomenon. It is part of the daily pedagogical framework of unaccompanied minors or other children. In coordination with the reception partners Croix Rouge and Red Cross, common guidelines were drawn up at the end of 2014 on the disciplinary approach of unaccompanied minors. The decision to impose a sanction shall be taken objectively and impartially and shall state the reasons on which it is based. It is also a decision of the team, validated by the management. Many proportionate and remedial measures have already been taken in advance. As regards, for example, the time-out in Sint-Truiden and Sugny, with each transfer request, this collective and local evaluation will also be submitted to the respective headquarters of Fedasil or other reception agencies. The transition to a disciplinary transfer of unaccompanied minors is never taken lightly by a reception structure. It is a decision in the supervision of unaccompanied minors following numerous proportional and remedial measures and cascade system sanctions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic604x.u108	Mr Secretary of State, I don't understand. We see a problem here, which you are punishing in the press. Is that to score with a certain audience? Fortunately, you do not repeat the words 'huggy and pamper policy' here in committee. However, you did so in the press. I'm the one who's causing this incomprehension. I think all partners, including Fedasil and your cabinet, should just sit together to see if the roadmap is followed in all cases, where the high number comes from, and whether there is effective misconduct. Perhaps the latter can be remediated with, for example, more psychosocial guidance. I can imagine that it is not easy to stay in an asylum centre as a child. A certain misconduct may result from that. However, that has to be looked at by us. When it comes to persistent misconduct, it must of course even be punished. In fact, I am disappointed with the spirit of this debate. I thought we could work constructively here.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic604x.u109	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, you have received comments from the newspaper Le Soir on the automatic allocation of certain social rights. In this context, you seem to say that there should be an automatic allocation of integration income. The problem is that the Banque Carrefour de la Sécurité Sociale has been entrusted by the government with a project aimed at automating the granting of certain social rights. However, integration income is not a secondary right. However, the social rights you mentioned are derived rights. In addition, the granting of integration income is the subject of an investigation to be carried out by social workers. I dare to assume that you want this investigation to be maintained because it makes it possible to verify that the conditions laid down by law are met by the applicants. Mr Secretary of State, can you confirm to me that integration income is not a secondary right and that it will not be automatically granted through the database to be set up?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic604x.u110	Mr President, Mr Massin, my intention is not to touch on the principles and procedures provided for in Article 19(1) of the Act of 26 May 2002. The right to the integration bonus is based on a social survey carried out by a social worker. However, social workers may use the social data available on social security networks to conduct their surveys and thus no longer personally interview the persons concerned. It is clear that we will not touch on the principles and procedures envisaged.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic604x.u111	Mr President, I thank the minister for his answer. This means that journalists do not always understand your words well.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic604x.u112	Mrs. De Coninck, about that Algerian. He's known for drug charges, not convicted of drug charges. But that man is illegal in the country, he doesn't have to be convicted. Moreover, he only came to Belgium after 12 years of age.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic604x.u113	This last clarification will allow us to close the sitting.
