ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic582x.u1	The Minister, in accordance with the provisions of Article 38 (1) (1) of the Income Tax Code, may also be awarded by companies to independent managers' meal vouchers which are regarded as exempt social benefits. The legal text states that there must be a ratio between the number of days worked and the number of meal cheques. It shall not be stated that the terms of reference of the manager, manager or partner must be paid. In addition, both the legislative text and the administrative directives clearly state that employees and managers should be treated in the same way at tax level. However, SMEs and single-man companies usually do not employ staff subject to RSZ, so that no comparison can be made with collective agreements and labour regulations. They therefore remain uncertain as to the tax consequences of the payment of meal cheques to all their agents, partners and managers, whether or not they are paid. A number of questions arise in this context in the knowledge that the number of working days of the independent manager and/or of the managers, whether paid or not, can be proved effectively in the case of SMEs and sole proprietors. First of all, can any company manager, whether or not appointed by law, whether or not members, who has a free mandate from the manager of the main occupation or in ancillary profession, but to whom, in principle, remuneration, benefits of all kinds, tantiemes or dividends may still be granted, be awarded meal cheques, which are eligible as an exempt social benefit in respect of corporation taxes? If not, why not? What specific administrative conditions may be imposed on tax SMEs in this respect? Which valuation regime may apply if, in the case of the award of meal cheques to unpaid managers, sufficient proof of the number of days actually performed cannot be provided? For all the categories of self-employed persons referred to above, and in particular unpaid managers or managers who are or are not members, can you give the general view in the light of the provisions of Article 38 (1) (1) (11) of the Income Tax Code and of Article 10 (2) and (11) of the Coordinated Constitution?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic582x.u2	Mrs Van Cauter, since 2009, the exemption arrangements for meal cheques have been established...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... These articles explicitly state that employees and managers are eligible for the exemption. They shall not impose any additional conditions as regards the status of managers. The categories of managers you want are therefore eligible if all the applicable conditions are met. In a company with employees, the same rules should apply to managers as to the employees themselves. This does not mean that in an undertaking without employees, managers are excluded from the scheme or that additional administrative conditions could or should be imposed. The legal text clearly states that the number of meal cheques awarded must be equal to the number of actual working days of the worker or, where appropriate, of the manager. Where proof of this number of actual working days is not provided, it is not, of course, demonstrated that that condition is met and the exemption is therefore, by definition, not applicable. The contribution of the employer or the undertaking to the meal cheques is therefore taxable remuneration.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic582x.u3	I don't have a reply. Your answer is very enlightening. Thank you for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic582x.u4	Mr President, Minister, it was recently in the news. It goes without saying that taxes which are returned and payable must ultimately be paid. It must, of course, be the intention to set the most efficient method possible, with taxes actually being paid. In practice, not everyone is immediately able to pay the taxes due. Sometimes there are good reasons for that. Time limits are then already required. I have heard rumors that only limited time limits can be allowed today, up to a maximum of six months. Others will be talking in 10 months. It is unclear what is being used or not. Very recently there was a television broadcast by De Fiscus, in which I noticed two things. First of all, in the cases outlined, the recipient was approached in search of a solution to payment difficulties, but they went out without a real solution. There was no help and little explanation was given. Secondly, no matter how serious the difficulties were, I had the impression that in certain cases people were unhelpful in relation to taxpayers. They were not clearly shown the way to a solution to the payment difficulties facing them. Hence a number of questions on this subject, Minister. Is it possible that a maximum time limit for a payment plan can be set in policy terms and in full? It seems to me that in every case the situation is different. Sometimes they are structural problems and then I have some understanding that a structural solution is expected from the taxpayer. In certain cases, however, it may be that a temporary decline in revenue may occur, for example, in the attacks or that disease makes it impossible to make payments within the six-month or one-year period which may be imposed. Can the specific situation of the taxpayer be taken into account, or is it the rigid period of six or ten months envisaged? Do you agree that even if there would be an implicit maximum period, this is the rule, but that there can always be derogations in order to achieve the finality of the tax, in particular final payment, often with the passing on of negligence? We all know that this is a significant interest rate, 7% on income tax and 9.6 % on VAT, while legal interest rates of 2.2 % have now fallen. Therefore, a significant interest is paid. But rather this than a write-off of the debt or an unexpected referral to insolvency proceedings, with the result that nothing is collected in the end. That can't be the intention. Do you share my view that in this context there is indeed a role for the tax mediation service to propose a different proposal, both within the time limit as a rule and in appropriate cases? That seems crucial to me. In the context of the essential public service provision, can you impose on your administration that they are liable to tax the financial problems involved, whereby an agreement can be found after contact with the recipient, immediately inform them that they can turn to the tax mediation service, either in order to obtain clarification or in order to be specifically referred to another solution, or to go into mediation in order to obtain a payment arrangement? What documents on recovery have been mentioned today regarding the possibility of recourse to the tax mediation service? Are you considering changing that?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic582x.u5	Mr President, Mrs Van Cauter, at the end of 2016, the Finance Administration issued guidelines for the granting of payment plans. This was done after an audit carried out in January 2014 by the Court of Auditors, of the tax measures for taxpayers with payment difficulties. In it, the personal liability of the recipients was reduced. Among other things, the procedure for granting payment plans was discussed. It is important that the temporary payment problems are addressed quickly and are effectively resolved within a reasonable period of up to 12 months from the time the bill is sent. I am, of course, not insensitive to problems that individual citizens or businesses may encounter, nor to the finality of the tax. It cannot therefore be the intention to apply the 12-month period without consideration and blindly. Sending to insolvency proceedings should certainly not become the rule. It is still necessary to assess, independently of the proposed 12-month deadline, the existence of a dossier on the basis of which the administration is unable to resolve the temporary payment problems of the taxpayer by allowing a longer period of grace, taking into account the specific situation of the tax debtor and, where appropriate, the viability of the undertaking concerned. If it is found that the debtor is suffering from structural payment problems, structural solutions can be provided. Examples are the exemption from negligence and the unlimited delay in recovery. When discussing the payment plan, the Court also stated that accounting documents in the file could become mandatory for the granting of payment plans relating to larger amounts and/or longer periods. There is, of course, also a role for the tax mediation service. My policy paper of 12 November 2015, which is still in full implementation, shows my appreciation of the role of this service, not only in the pure mediation files, but also in the expert efforts it is making to help taxpayers, citizens and businesses, and to guide them towards a just solution to the tax problems they face. The report on the intervention of the tax mediation service in the context of the payment problems can be regarded as a justification in the aforementioned sense. The derogations and payment arrangements created by this service are founded, justified and justified, and have a national effect which guarantees and extends a certain level playing field. Therefore, the directives of the end of 2016 do not change the role of the tax mediation service in this respect, even if they negotiate payment arrangements that require more than 12 months for sound reasons. It remains, of course, the task of the aforementioned service to refer, where appropriate, to a more structural solution to the problem. Citizens and companies can contact the tax mediation service in the event of a permanent dispute with the FPS Finance for all actions of all tax officials. In doing so, access to that service should be guaranteed to the maximum extent possible. According to previous recommendations of the tax mediation service, dating from 2010, the recovery teams should already make mandatory mention of the possibility of tax mediation in the letter announcing an executive seizure of real estate. By analogy with the other procedures, applicable within the various other general administrations in which the tax mediation service may intervene, it is appropriate to expressly provide for this possibility also following a refusal of a payment plan sent to a citizen or an undertaking. The general administration of collection and recovery will develop this further, in consultation with the tax mediation service.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic582x.u6	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. The finality must indeed be the collection of the tax debt. You emphasized that. I think this is perfectly normal. You say there are guidelines. A deadline of 1 year is set for the drawing up of payment plans. I think this is reasonable. This leaves an opening to take into account the difficulties faced by an entrepreneur or a citizen in an individual file, to exceed that period in a reasonable way and always with an objective in mind, in particular the collection of taxes. That seems perfectly normal to me. It is enlightening that you stress this again today. It happens that the relationship between the taxpayer and the recipient is ruined. I can imagine that, for example, if we do not keep our promises immediately, or if there is something else going on. In such situations, in order to start with a new slate and yet to recover it, it seems necessary for the mediation service to be able to intervene with a different view of the matter with a view to a solution and payment, taking into account the difficulties faced by someone. It is necessary to inform citizens and businesses of this at the time of recovery or at the time when a demand for spread payment is refused. This seems to me to be a good thing. I can only encourage you to take additional initiatives to this end.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic582x.u7	Minister, there is a great deal of concern among your agents about this decision to impose unilaterally on agents the versatility of their duties. A measure that goes very badly. I have received a great deal of testimony in this regard from particularly experienced and competent agents. In concrete terms, agents will be asked, from 1 January 2017, to be versatile both in matters relating to personal and corporate tax and in matters relating to VAT. This decision will require FPS Finance officers to deal with all aspects, sometimes of a very diverse nature, of files in their various segments. And if that was not enough, the FPS already requires a 20% reduction in the number of days allocated for file control. In addition to the demotivation – which is already a reality – that prevails among agents, this versatility makes it feared that these agents will no longer be able to perform their duties under acceptable conditions, which will inevitably have consequences for the performance of tax supplements recruited after checks. This could therefore reduce the level of tax corrections and therefore tax revenues in the fiscal context that is known. It's not about asking people to pay more taxes, it's about the tax they have to pay legally. At this point, it is my responsibility that the management of the SPF declares itself irresponsible of this situation and refers to the Personnel and Organization (P&O) SPF, which itself redirects itself to the TACM (Tax Audit & Compliance Management). As you will have understood, each of us has the responsibility for this decision. Therefore, Minister, could you tell me whether this decision to impose versatility on agents was made by the FPS Finance? Have you been informed of this? Has there been any consultation with officials' representatives? Do you not fear that this measure will prove ineffective if it is accompanied by a reduction in the time devoted to the control of the files?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic582x.u8	Mr President, first of all, I should like to point out that the General Tax Administration finalized its internal reorganization in July 2016 with a view to implementing a target group approach for taxpayers. Each of the three administrations, the particular administration, the SME administration and the large enterprise administration, aims in particular to develop a service delivery and an approach/control that meets the needs and specificities of its own target group. It is in this context that the implementation of multidisciplinary skills within the teams as well as in the head of the employees of the SME and large companies administrations will help to achieve greater efficiency and increase the level of service delivery vis-à-vis the various groups of taxpayers. It is therefore a means and not an objective in itself. This does not preclude the maintenance of more sophisticated knowledge and skills in one or the other tax area within the various centres/services as well as in the head of employees. In parallel, as is currently the case, not all control actions will be multidisciplinary and the most complex controls will be carried out by collaborators with the level of expertise necessary to carry out the control in the subject(s) concerned. As part of the evolution of a material-based structure towards a target group structure, constant attention will be paid within the AGFisc and more specifically to the GE and SME pillars, such as the AGISI and the guidance, expertise and political support service for employment and the training of specialised collaborators. This is an important objective set out in the policy note for 2017. At the training level, in order to ensure that each employee is accompanied in its development, a wide range of specific technical trainings have been planned, both for management team staff and control teams. The training route for supervisors is similar to that for new trainees. As far as control capacity is concerned, no reduction of 20% is imposed. The control capacity depends on the number of staff assigned to the control and the number of days available for the control activities. A number of control models are also being revised with a view to integrating the multidisciplinary aspects of the new target group approach. This ensures a better examination of the taxpayer's tax situation when several tax matters are affected by the control. When selecting the files to be checked, account shall be taken of the specific characteristics and properties of each tax. Finally, as part of the social dialogue with the organisations representing the FPS Finance employees, a meeting will be organised in early 2017 to keep them informed of the arrangements put in place in-house, as was the case with the last major projects that have affected the staff of my department.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic582x.u9	Minister, thank you for your answers. There is a problem of understanding or clarity, but we will have the opportunity to return to it. Having said that, I understand the importance of multidisciplinary controls. From the moment a target group has been identified, it must be possible, during the monitoring, to ensure that all aspects of taxation (VAT, direct taxes, or even other aspects of taxation) can be covered. But multi- or multidisciplinary controls do not necessarily mean that the same agent must be able to assume the whole of the multi- or multidisciplinary. This means that you can send, on a large file, as part of a target group, two agents, one specializing in direct taxes and the other specializing in indirect taxes, which will allow everyone to retain their degree of specialization. In large consulting companies, at EY (Ernst & Young), PwC (Pricewaterhousecoopers) etc., you have people who specialize in VAT and they are extremely focused in VAT and others who specialize in direct taxes and sometimes even specialized in a particular discipline, corporate tax or personal tax or estate planning. Why are they ultra-specialized? Because because of the laws that change regularly – as we know, we have voted a lot since the beginning of the legislature – because of the circulars that are adopted, because of the jurisprudence decisions that fall every day, we must be able to be really aware of the information, which requires considerable work, including in the formations that will be delivered. In fact, the trainers, before the vocational training centres - it is a pity that they have disappeared today in the famous academy - must be able to identify the training given because, over a few days, the agent must be able to return with an additional acquis. And this additional acquis itself depends on the evolution that I have just spoken of and that is massive. So this means that, if we think we will be able to maintain at a very high level, both the VAT agents in corporate tax, I think we are wrong. It's humanly impossible. So, multidisciplinary controls, yes, but with agents that, each, come with their know-how and, from the conjunction of the two, can then result in efficiency. But if, tomorrow, we ask the same agent to be specialized in everything, he will no longer, I would say, be perfectly competent on anything. That is the problem, and that is the danger. Today, however, we have highly qualified agents. It's so true that the Big Fours often try to debaucher them by offering them big wages. This proves well that we have, today, in the tax administration, really great specialists that we have to keep. So, here's the thing. I'm a little worried. I hear there will be social consultation. I can only encourage it because there you will have echoes which, in my opinion, will be able to inform the debate; all this, I repeat, against the background of a budgetary situation in which no strategic error can be made. Tax controls must be organised with some efficiency.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic582x.u10	Mr. Hellings, do you have a special interest in Tunisia?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic582x.u11	Mr. President, I'll explain. These are questions that I had originally addressed to Mr. From Croo who were transferred to Mr. Van Overtveldt is responsible for managing the debts of foreign countries. Mr Minister, following the joint mission of the Heads of Government of Belgium, the Netherlands and Luxembourg to Tunisia on 5 December last, Prime Minister Charles Michel announced on 5 December the conversion of part of the Tunisian debt towards Belgium into investment projects to help the Tunisian economy recover. This conversion would involve 11.5 % of the claims held by Belgium on Tunisia, i.e. approximately EUR 3 million. This debt conversion recalls some precedents. For example, in the case of the conversion of French debt to Cameroon through the "debt and development contract", the French Agency for Development has a right of veto over any decision taken by the Cameroonian authorities concerning projects financed by this debt conversion. That's why I have seven questions, Mr. Minister. During the visit, the Prime Minister also announced that Belgium and Tunisia had agreed to cooperate in the management of migration. Is the control of migration flows by the Tunisian State a condition for the conversion of Tunisian debt into investment projects? Will Belgium respect the sovereignty of the Tunisian State and not have a veto right comparable to that of France vis-à-vis Cameroon? What investment projects will be financed by this debt conversion? On what criteria have these projects been selected? How will you ensure that these projects will benefit the economic and social needs of the Tunisian people? Do we already know the names of the companies that will implement these projects? Under what criteria will they be selected? How is the Tunisian State or will it be associated with the various stages leading to decision-making on the investment projects thus financed and the selected companies? Will the €3 million converted be included in Belgium's official development assistance? If so, for what year?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic582x.u12	A comprehensive answer has been prepared to the two questions you asked.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic582x.u13	I therefore ask my second question, which she spoke about the implementation of the Senate resolution on Tunisia at the time. A resolution to "support economic development and the strengthening of social cohesion in Tunisia" was adopted by the Senate in July 2011. It called on the government "to decide (...) on a moratorium on the repayment of Tunisia's existing bilateral debt to Belgium, including its interests, as well as an audit to examine in more detail the aspects that would fall within the definition of the "odious debt", and "to decide to cancel Tunisia's bilateral debt to Belgium as soon as possible, if the audit shows that all or part of the debt falls within the definition of "odious debt". Clearly, since the adoption of this resolution in 2011, Belgium has continued to collect the repayment of Tunisian debts and has not audited its debts, as requested by the resolution. It should be noted that a proposal for a law on the audit of Tunisian public debt was also tabled last June in the Assembly of Representatives of the People of Tunisia. In this bill, signed by seventy-three MPs from different parliamentary groups – which deserves to be stressed – the moratorium on the payment of public debt until the results of an audit commission are issued, as is the case in the Belgian parliamentary resolution. Hence, minister, my questions. Why have the moratorium and the audit in question not yet been put in place? Do you undertake to suspend the payment of Tunisian debt to Belgium from now on, at least until the bill is put to the vote of the Tunisian Parliament? Why did you convert only 11.5 per cent of Tunisian debt into economic projects? Will the remaining 88.5% be cancelled and/or converted, if yes, by what deadline? Finally, what are the next steps in the implementation of the 2011 Resolution with regard to the cancellation of Tunisia's "bilateral debt to Belgium"?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic582x.u14	The July 2011 resolution passed by the Belgian Senate was not implemented, because our country's debt consolidation policies must take into account those of the members of the Paris Club. The latter and the international financial institutions believe that Tunisia is able to repay its debts. Tunisia itself has no arrears with respect to its bilateral and multilateral creditors and has never requested debt consolidation. The bilateral loans granted by Belgium to this country have a very high concessionality, with a grace period of 10 years, followed by repayments in 20 equal annual maturities. The projects thus financed are relevant for development. Their implementation was considered a priority by the beneficiary country. More than half of this debt, or about 15 million euros, is financed by a State loan of 25 June 2006, which was used to finance the rehabilitation work of the Sfax Bay. It is therefore not an odious debt here. Belgium does not choose to renounce the repayment of Tunisian debt. Nevertheless, at the beginning of December 2016, the Prime Minister presented a letter of intent to the Tunisian Prime Minister and his Minister of Finance, with a proposal to convert the debt of €3 billion, representing the 2017 and 2018 maturities for the state loans granted in the past. On the occasion of this meeting, the Prime Minister also announced that Belgium and Tunisia are seeking to cooperate in the management of migration flows. The proposal for debt conversion is indeed a goodwill approach in order to promote cooperation with Tunisia, within the framework of a readmission agreement. The government considers such an agreement to be an important tool in the organization of a return policy for migrants. We are now awaiting the Tunisian response to the debt conversion proposal. After such an agreement, debt conversion has yet to be approved by the Belgian Council of Ministers. Subsequently, a formal debt conversion agreement should be established, the content of which should be agreed between Belgium and Tunisia. This text should include a clarification of the relevant Tunisian partners, the use of counterpart funds and the composition of the Management Committee, including Belgian and Tunisian representatives, responsible for the implementation of the swap contract. Decisions on the use of the counterpart fund will therefore be taken in consultation between Belgium and Tunisia. At present, the projects to be funded by the fund are not yet known. There is no known Belgian company which may possibly be involved in the implementation of the projects. Of the amount that will be the object of debt conversion, only the sum of interest will be recognized as ODA, since the loans themselves have already been recorded as ODA at the time of allocation.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic582x.u15	Thank you, Minister, for your answers. Let us not forget that Tunisia is the first country to have experienced this blessed period of Arab spring. Today, Tunisia has experienced many political problems following all these revolutions, and is slowly recovering from them. It deserves conversion or cancellation. We see that the government is working towards debt conversion. It deserves one or the other, regardless of any readmission agreements or return policy as advocated by your colleague Franken. It is a shame to make an immigration policy dependent on a debt policy. Knowing that if Tunisia develops thanks, among other things, to debts cancelled or converted, it is all migration flows that will not arrive in Europe. This must be independent of the return or readmission policy, I repeat. It's something else. These are completely different things. I understand that there is still 88.5 per cent of debt to be converted or cancelled. There's still a lot of work to do! Let us not forget that this debt was massively contracted at the time of the deposed dictator Ben Ali. Tunisians do not have to pay for this debt, which may not be odious, but could in any case obliterate their future economic and political plans. We'll keep an eye on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic582x.u16	Questions Nos 15664 and 15679 by Georges Gilkinet are transformed into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic582x.u17	Minister Vandeput recently informed us of the upcoming move of the National Geographical Institute to the Abbey of La Cambre. In addition, he said: "Defence intends to alienate this military domain, including 15,000 m2 of buildings, which means in concrete terms that the site will be transferred to the FPS Finances. It is the Acquisition Committee which will determine the value of this property and which will deal with the sale." Since this building has already been covered with tags for months, there is a great risk that it will be further degraded if it remains abandoned during a possible transition period. I would therefore like to know as soon as possible, Minister, your plans to reassign him and the terms of this transfer by Defence. Thank you in advance for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic582x.u18	Minister, I have been very close to the evolution of the file of the National Geographical Institute (IGN), located in the complex of the Abbey of the Cambre in Ixelles - a commune that I know well. For example, I have had the opportunity to question the Minister of Defence several times since last July, especially about the maintenance of the buildings - because of the tags that covered it. Last November, I asked him about the Institute's move. The minister then confirmed the upcoming alienation of the premises to the FPS Finances. De facto, the Federal Acquisition Committee should be responsible for determining the value of this property and for carrying out its sale. After the move of IGN, it will of course be necessary to avoid at all costs that the buildings are victims of acts of degradation and incivility, due to a period of reassignment which would be too slow and late. This is indeed a significant risk because, as we all know, an empty building very often attracts, especially in urban areas, the authors of graffiti, wild display, and even structural degradation. It is therefore important to make this transition at best in order to preserve this remarkable heritage. Minister, I would like to ask you the following questions. What is the current state of play in this case? In concrete terms, has the alienation already taken place? If so, has the value of the property already been determined by the Federal Acquisition Committee? In addition, have any contacts already been established with your services and other public authorities or private partners in the case of a future reassignment of this site? Thank you for the information you can provide.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic582x.u19	Mrs Fernandez Fernandez, Mr Calomne, the management of the building of the National Geographical Institute, located at the Abbey of La Cambre, is not within the competence of the SPF Finances, which has not, to date, received any delivery minutes for the sale of this building. When it is submitted for sale to the Federal Real Property Acquisition Committee, the Measurements and Evaluations Administration will make the estimate, after which the Federal Real Property Acquisition Committee of the Heritage Services Administration will take over the entire sales process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic582x.u20	I thank the minister for his answer and I understand that it is difficult for him to go into the matter, because what the Minister of Defence is telling us, on the other hand, does not seem to correspond to the information that should have come to you. I will certainly return to your colleague.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic582x.u21	Mr President, I thank the minister for his answer. We will remain attentive to this issue and to the flow of information between the various ministers.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic582x.u22	Minister, in its edition of Thursday, November 24, 2016, The Future reported real fears felt by the staff of the Ath Finance Centre's offices. Indeed, several sources, notably through various texts published in the periodical of the National Union of Public Services (UNSP), announce that in the future there would remain only three FPS Finance offices per province, i.e., with regard to the Hainaut: Tournai, Mons and Charleroi. In addition, UNSP states that the Ath offices currently host 90 officers, while they can accommodate 140. In fact, two floors are simply unoccupied. How do you explain such an under-occupation of the Ath Finance Centre? Is it envisaged that these offices will eventually be abolished as part of the objective of the three centres per province? Could the lease of occupancy of the buildings by the SPF running until 2024 not be renewed?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic582x.u23	Mr Delannois, following the modernization of the FPS Finances, which took place between 2014 and 2016, known as the famous "basket", the teams of the general administrations were distributed among the various administrative centres of the communes, in which the FPS Finances had decided to maintain one or more services. In Ath, it is true that a floor under the roof has been emptied. This represents three premises, less welcoming, and difficult to use to set up permanent staff. Another floor has indeed been emptied, but it will be partially redeveloped to be made available to workers in the region, as part of the "Working differently" initiatives and, in particular, to enable satellite work. The idea of the three centres per province is a strategic vision of the general administration of Perception and Recovery, but does not concern the other general administrations, namely Taxation, Customs and Heritage Documentation. At present, it is premature to talk about a renewal or termination of the lease agreement for this leased building until 2024.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic582x.u24	Minister, thank you for your answer. There's a good chance I'll come back to you when you get more information on this. In any case, I received at least one response in relation to the future occupancy of a floor. That's it already!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic582x.u25	Mr President, I ask you to turn my question No 16290 into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic582x.u26	Of which act.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic582x.u27	Minister, at the end of last year I saw the government's agenda for the tax reduction on sanitary towels, from 21% to 6%. That would be a logical and correct decision. That's something the women's movements have been asking for years. After all, it is a daily purpose for many women between fifteen and fifty-five years old. It is vengeful that this is taxed as a luxury product. I would like to say immediately that we have apparently failed to achieve this in previous years and in previous governments. However, it would be a logical and correct decision. However, we have not seen that decision appear on the list of government decisions. In the same context, I have a second question. In addition to the usual disposable products for female hygiene, there are also sustainable products, such as washable sanitary towels, washable inlay crosses, etc. These are products that are not only more environmentally friendly, but also cheaper and healthier. Mr Minister, I have two simple questions. Is the proposal now under discussion at the Council of Ministers and is the result of an approved government decision soon? If not, when do you foresee that this will happen or has it been disposed of? If the VAT reduction on female hygiene products were to be introduced, would it apply to those sustainable products?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic582x.u28	Minister, there are currently three separate VAT rates in Belgium. The rate of 6% is reserved for basic necessities. However, sanitary protections are taxed at 21%, i.e. the maximum rate applied in Belgium. They are therefore not recognized as essential products, unlike other products such as chocolate, flax, coffee or art objects. The PS group has already asked you about this, considering that these protections can only be regarded as a basic necessity. You did not seem to be opposed to remedying the problem at the time. Therefore, Minister, my questions are simple. Have you ever discussed your project in the Council of Ministers? Will the reduction in VAT on sanitary protections be on the conclave table during the next budgetary adjustment?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic582x.u29	Mrs Jiroflée, Mrs Ben Hamou, I have entrusted my administration with drafting a proposal to reduce the VAT rate on sanitary towels, insert crosses and tampons. The dossier was discussed at the Council of Ministers and has not yet been approved after technical discussions. I remain a strong supporter of a reduction in VAT on these products. I will continue to work to ensure that this fair measure is approved as soon as possible. With regard to part two of your question, Mrs Jiroflée, this proposal applies to sanitary towels, insert crosses, tampons and similar products without distinguishing between disposable or durable products. As a result, sustainable alternatives are certainly also eligible.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic582x.u30	Thank you, Minister, for this hopeful answer. We're looking forward to it. I believe that a great many women will be very pleased with that. You have no idea the timing? How hard were the technical problems, I mean?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic582x.u31	Let us say that they are of that kind that it requires a global positive context in order to achieve good decision-making. That can happen quickly but unfortunately it can also take a while.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic582x.u32	Thank you. We'll do it with that for now.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic582x.u33	I'm quite joining my colleague. Actually, I had the same question about timing. You can't tell us any date today. Will this be discussed in the next budget adjustment?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic582x.u34	This will certainly be one of the possibilities, but I do not mean that this will be the case, because I am not sure. I assure you both that the idea of doing something is clearly still there.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic582x.u35	I can hear your willingness to move forward. I will not fail to come back to you in a few months in order to rest the question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic582x.u36	Minister, the inventory of tax expenditures, on which I have already asked you questions, is this annex to the budget which presents the budgetary cost of the various deductions from our tax legislation. If every year the budget itself arrives in the House late, the inventory in question is still only a few months later. Thus, the inventory to accompany the 2016 budget did not reach the House until February 2016 (instead of October 15, 2015). It contained data only up to 2013 and no corporate tax data for 2013. Why this systematic delay? Do you intend to take steps to ensure that, in the future, the inventory of tax expenditures arrives at the same time as the budget? Can the inventory not contain the previous year's data (e.g. 2015 data in the inventory submitted at the end of 2016 for the 2017 budget), even though these data are reported as provisional? When will the inventory to accompany the 2017 budget be published? Does this inventory contain corporate income tax data for 2013 and 2014?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic582x.u37	Mr Van Hees, in fact, the federal inventory of tax expenditures, which is an annex to the Ways and Means Budget, has not yet been published. It will cover the 2014 revenues for direct taxes and 2015 for indirect taxes, the personal discount and the professional discount. The inventory is currently being prepared, but it has not yet been finalized or sent to the House of Representatives for publication due to missing data. The SPF Finance's study department, which prepares this inventory of tax expenditure, has yet to finalize two components: the corporate tax and the VAT. With regard to this second point in particular, there is a lack of important data for calculating tax expenditure in the Horeca, construction and electricity sectors, without which, following the application of the reduced rates in these sectors, the calculation cannot be made. However, reduced rates are the main component of tax expenditure on VAT. The study department makes every effort to publish this document as soon as possible. Raw data cannot be reported as they require statistical analysis and processing before they can be validated and used. The study department has established a time frame to enable the annual tax expenditure inventory to be published in the future in a timely manner. Compliance with this timing depends on the availability of the figures necessary for the calculation of tax expenditures and the preparation of the inventory.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic582x.u38	Minister, I do not understand your last sentence very well. Indeed, you say that timing depends on the availability of encrypted data. But who produces this data? 2015 income or taxes exist. What do you mean when you talk about "availability"? Is this at the level of FPS Finance? I feel like we're answering a question with another question. We're going in circles. What is the problem of availability? What is the recurring problem each year? For me, the question remains. Why is this inventory almost systematically delayed? Does this result from a lack of staff in the service? I would like more specific answers to this question. On the other hand, as far as corporate tax is concerned, you say that we will have all the direct tax data for 2014. I therefore assume that we will also have the corporate tax data for 2013. Do you confirm this to me, minister?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic582x.u39	Yes!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic582x.u40	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic582x.u41	Minister, in September 2016, the Special Inspectorate of Taxes (SII) launched a project to control foreign bank cards, an important operation against tax evasion through tax havens. In order to do this, ISI visited Worldline, the main electronic payment operator in Belgium. The Court of Cassation had held in 2004 that the former Banksys, taken over in 2006 by Worldline, could not be considered a financial institution that could rely on bank secrecy. A priori, therefore, the work of the ISI should therefore not encounter legal problems. So, has the ISI foreign bank card control operation been able to proceed smoothly? What results have been achieved to date as a result of this operation? If legal or technical problems exist, making it difficult or impossible to control foreign bank cards, what do you intend to do to resolve them?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic582x.u42	Mr Van Hees, the investigation to which you refer is still in the preliminary phase. It is therefore premature to speak already of insurmountable technical or legal problems. At present, therefore, there are not yet any results in taxation, but it is clear that I am the development of this matter very closely.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic582x.u43	Minister. I therefore understand that I am asking you the question too soon. I'll rest it later. I don't know what timing will be relevant. I'll improvise.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic582x.u44	Mr Minister, my colleague Mr Raoul Hedebouw asked the Minister of Pensions in plenary session on 19 January – I had already asked you about this before – about this tax anomaly, which means that between about EUR 15 500 and EUR 16 500, an increase in the gross pension is totally lost in net terms, or even leads to a decrease in the net amount. It is also in connection with the debate on the purchase of years of study to obtain a bonus on his pension. The risk is that a worker will invest in the redemption of his years of study and that the gross gain will result in a zero amount or a net loss. I repeat, I had already questioned you on July 6, 2016, but you did not reply with a view to finding a solution to the problem. You confirmed that the problem exists, but without considering a solution. However, on 19 January in plenary, Minister Bacquelaine said: "There is therefore a need to solve this problem definitively as soon as possible, in order to guarantee to workers and pensioners that any increase in the gross pension actually results in an increase in the net pension. This is a request that I will make to the Council of Ministers tomorrow to resolve this issue with the Minister of Finance and the Government as soon as possible." Minister, how many pensioners are currently in this income bracket (between EUR 15 500 and EUR 16 500)? Have you received a request from the Minister of Pensions to address this issue? Do you already have any solutions? If so, which ones? How long do you intend to submit a legislative amendment to address the problem, if that's what you're planning to do?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic582x.u45	For the 2015 tax year, the number of taxpayers with a net taxable income of more than €15,500 and to whom an additional reduction for pension and replacement income was granted was approximately 94,500. Most of these taxpayers are indeed pensioners. The problem that you are raising is currently the subject of a constructive discussion on this very day between the offices of the Minister of Finance and Minister Bacquelaine, who will certainly be pursued within the government.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic582x.u46	Minister, I note that there is at least one discussion in the government. We do not yet have an explanation on your part for a possible solution or for the deadlines for reaching a solution. But at least the government is discussing it. It is a bit unfortunate that it took all this controversy over the purchase of years of study to finally tackle a problem that had been affecting pensioners for years. In fact, all those who had a pension increase – and it is not only in the context of the redemption of the years of study that one can have a pension increase, there may be an indexation or other – were penalized by the tax system. I've met some of them. I told you about the problem in July 2016 but you didn't seem to want to consider a solution at that time. Now, obviously, we're discussing a solution to the government. So I see that there is progress, but unfortunately it took all this controversy to get there.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic582x.u47	Mr President, Minister, my first question concerns the valuation of the Belgian State's participation in BNP Paribas. In a famous transaction that began in 2008 and was finalised in 2009, the Belgian State sold Fortis, the country's first bank, to the French BNP Paribas group, and became a major shareholder. First, what is the value of this participation as of December 31, 2016? What is the number of shares held by the Belgian State? What was the value of the share on that date? What was the total value of the Belgian participation? What was the share of this shareholding in BNP Paribas' total capital? Second, what was the value of this participation when it was acquired? What is the date of acquisition? What is the number of shares held by the Belgian State? What was the value of the share on that date? What was the total value of the Belgian participation? What proportion does this represent in total capital? Thirdly, what is the amount of the unrealised surplus or loss as at 31 December 2016 or at another date close to that date? Fourthly, what are the government's intentions with respect to this participation? Is a sale possible in 2017? Is an assignment before the end of the legislature possible? What criteria are used to dispose of this participation or not? Fifth, in seven years, from 2009 to 2015, the Belgian State received €1.5 billion in dividends from BNP Paribas. Over the same period, the Belgian subsidiary BNP Paribas Fortis, which is a bit the counterpart of this participation, paid 4.5 billion euros to the French group, or three times more. Is this not a sign of self-inflicted dispossession by the Belgian government, of our public finances? My second question concerns the Belgian State's control of this shareholding, since it is one of the main shareholders, if not the first, of the French banking group BNP Paribas, with some 10% of the capital. Under this weight, the Belgians Michel Tilmant and Wouter De Ploey sit on the board of directors on a proposal from the Belgian State. Wouter De Ploey was appointed at the General Assembly on 26 May 2016, replacing Emiel van Broekhoven, who had reached the age limit. The minutes strangely state, with regard to this director of a large shareholder, the Belgian State: "The council considers that Wouter De Ploey would exercise his mandate independently within the meaning of the AFEP-MEDEF Code." I understand that the same status applies to Michel Tilmant. Why are Belgian directors considered independent when they represent one of the main shareholders of BNP Paribas, i.e. the Belgian state? Why does the government accept this status as an independent administrator? What are the consequences? Does this not deprive the Belgian State of a power vis-à-vis BNP Paribas? The Belgian state has already offered a huge financial gift to the French group and is also depriving itself of a decision-making power: is this double sacrifice not suspicious? As an important shareholder, what actions does the Belgian state conduct - via its directors or otherwise - to control and/or influence BNP Paribas' policy on the following areas of interest to you? - The respect for human rights, the environment or the peace of the BNP Paribas Group's investments. - A responsible tax policy, in particular by avoiding the use of tax havens. BNP Paribas is or has been the French multinational with the largest number of subsidiaries in tax havens, a title that Fortis wore for Belgium before its absorption. - A financial policy that minimizes solvency and liquidity risks. - Commercial policy which respects customers and the concept of proximity, this implies the maintenance of a network of agencies, including in Belgium. - A social policy that respects employment, working conditions and the remuneration of staff. In the meantime, I ask you this question about the recent decision of BNP Paribas Fortis, the Belgian subsidiary, to cap the gross salaries of staff and to force them to accept a package of alternative solutions, nicknamed the Cafeteria plan, whose alternative remuneration is undermining our social security and our public finances. Don't you worry that this initiative is a precedent that many companies are likely to follow?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic582x.u48	Mr Van Hees, I am responding first of all to your five questions on valuing participation. First, the Belgian State holds 126.7 million shares of which 3.6 million are held by the SFPI on its own account. BNP Paribas' share was quoted at €60.55 as of Friday, December 30, 2016, closing value. The value of the State's participation in BNP Paribas amounts to €7.7 billion at the end of the previous year. Belgium owns 10.3 % of BNP Paribas' shares. Compared to your second question, the Belgian State sold its 75% stake in Fortis Bank on 12 May 2009, compared to 121.2 million shares of BNP Paribas. The Belgian State therefore held the same rounded amount of 121.2 million at that date. By comparing the purchase price of Fortis Bank with the number of BNP Paribas shares received, the value of the BNP Paribas share used for this transaction was 58.16 euros. The value of the Belgian State's shareholding was 121.2 million shares multiplied by the same amount of EUR 58.16. The Belgian State held about 10% of BNP Paribas' shares. Third question. The unrealised surplus value as at 30 December 2016 amounted to 685 million euros. This means, rounded, $7.7 billion minus $7 billion, rounded again. In net terms, we are talking about 685 million euros. Fourth question. What are the government's intentions with respect to this participation? Is a sale possible in 2017? The government has asked the SFPI to prepare in order to be able to respond to possible market opportunities. This concerns all the participations of the SFPI. At this stage, a decision to act on individual participation has not been taken. Is an assignment possible at the end of the legislature? I refer to the answer I gave above. Another issue, in seven years, from 2009 to 2015, the Belgian State received a rounded amount of €1.5 billion in dividends from BNP Paribas. Over the same period, the Belgian subsidiary paid, as you said, 4.5 billion dividends. The amount of BNP Paribas dividends taken over also takes into account the dividend paid in 2016. Let us not forget that during this period the State also benefited from cash dividends received from Fortis bank for 212.6 million, Royal Park Investments for 326.2 million euros, as well as a dividend in shares for 3,466 million BNP Paribas. In addition, the Belgian State was able to participate in a capital increase with a neutral budgetary effect for 3,6335 million shares. Note also that some of BNP Paribas' activities have been carried out by the BNP Paribas Group and contribute strongly, directly and indirectly, to the economy. Here are concrete examples: leasing activity, specialized financing activities, and Arval. The latter is the European leader in vehicle leasing with €13 billion in assets, a net profit of about €360 million and a return of approximately 23%. As regards the second set of questions on the control of participation, under the terms of the 2008 and 2009 agreements between the Belgian State and BNP Paribas, the Belgian State can, as long as it holds at least 10% of the voting rights of BNP Paribas, present two candidates for the position of administrator of BNP Paribas and, as long as the Belgian State holds more than 5% and less than 10% of the voting rights of BNP Paribas, it will have the right to nominate a candidate. These candidates must, in accordance with the terms of these agreements, be Belgian personalities recognized for their competence and qualities in the financial field. MM. Tilmant and Van Broekhoven were appointed at the time, on presentation by the Belgian State, SFPI, as members of the Board of Directors of BNP Paribas on 12 May 2010. Their term of office was renewed on 15 May 2013 and expired at the 2016 General Assembly. Mr. Wouter De Ploey then succeeded Mr. Van Broekchoven. The independence criteria set out in the AFEP-MEDEF Code are: the status of employee or social representative over the last five years, the existence or absence of cross-term contracts, the existence or absence of significant business relations, the existence of close family ties with a social representative, the absence of an auditor of the company in the previous five years, the absence of a director of the company for more than 12 years and, finally, the status of the important shareholder. BNP Paribas considered that the directors presented met these criteria, while specifying, with regard to the status of the major shareholder, that the composition of BNP Paribas' capital and the absence of a potential conflict of interest guaranteed their independence. This is the result of a balance negotiated in 2008-2009. The State intended to be able to present the candidates for directors in BNP Paribas, which allowed it to instill a Belgian sensitivity to the company's actions. Through the intervention of the SFPI, however, the State exercises its role as shareholder and votes at the general meeting of BNP Paribas on the items on the agenda. The State and the FPS Finances are not intended to interfere with aspects which are subject to control by the French administrative authorities or by European and national prudential bodies or which fall under the management of BNP Paribas companies. However, the points covered by the question are subject to this control, which gives rise to contracts between these authorities and the representatives of the BNP Paribas Group or falls under this management. Finally, it is not up to the Minister of Finance to make statements about a company's decision-making policy as long as legal obligations are met.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic582x.u49	Minister, I will start with the last question. You give the different criteria for the independence of directors according to the French definition of the AFEP-MEDEF Code. Indeed, the last condition is the status of the important shareholder. Here, you recognized him, he's an important shareholder. Belgium is a 10% shareholder, probably the largest shareholder of BNP Paribas. It is astonished that the shareholder power is not used by Belgium to assert its financial or moral and ethical interests. Any private shareholder who would have 10% and who would be the first shareholder in a bank or any company would use that capital to defend its interests. Belgium, on the other hand, does not. It's incomprehensible to me, but you're telling us that this is part of a balance negotiated in 2008-2009. Clearly, the Belgian State, by itself, has imposed on itself this policy which I find incomprehensible. BNP Paribas' policy is far from above suspicion. It's a bank that still hangs out a few pots. It is all the more regrettable that the Belgian State, which has already lost money in this operation, does not take advantage of this power to defend its financial or ethical interests. I come to the first question on valuation, in particular cross-trade in dividends. I haven't been able to follow all the numbers you've given, but I feel like we're staying away from the account. We have 1.5 billion going from France to Belgium and 4.5 billion going from Belgium to France. You add a few amounts to the billion and a half but I think the imbalance is still there and it can only ask. He can only ask questions about the original sale and the current situation with regard to dividend swaps. Several observers at the time, both the French press and large financial control institutions, said that in this operation Belgium had been totally misled and that BNP Paribas had had Fortis for nothing. Current dividend figures tend to demonstrate this.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic582x.u50	Mr President, Minister, we discussed this earlier, in November, if I am not mistaken. The tax arrangements on the deductibility of the bicycle fee for users of a speed pedal have been very clear since 1 October, in that they are no longer considered as cyclists. A tax-deductible bicycle allowance is therefore no longer possible, as is the tax deduction for company bicycles/speed pedals. Minister, you replied in November that a working group would be set up and that a solution would be sought. What's the status?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic582x.u51	Mr Minister, as my colleague Van den Bergh has just said, the question is quite simple. Speed pedalecs are still considered mopeds, so they are not taxed in the same way as other means of locomotion. I'm talking about the tax advantages. Since speed pedalecs are classified as mopeds, their users cannot benefit from a series of tax advantages such as those granted to cyclists or from those linked to the purchase of electric motorcycles. This applies to the exemption of up to 22 cents per km from an employer's bicycle allowance for employees, the exemption from the benefit resulting from the provision of bicycles and accessories, including maintenance and garage expenses, and the reduction of tax on certain conditions for the purchase of a new motorcycle, tricycle or electric quadricycle. In this case, Minister, what tax measures are you planning to take to encourage the use of these speed pedalecs?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic582x.u52	Mr President, it is true that Mr Van den Bergh has taken note of the fact that I have asked my administration to consider how, fiscally speaking, the situation is or can be put into effect. During that study it was also clear that we had to involve the Member responsible for Mobility. This research is now under way, but there are no concrete results yet. It is my intention, however, to prepare as soon as possible, in consultation with the Minister for Mobility, a draft law on this subject, which can be submitted to the government for approval. As soon as this project is ready, it will be discussed with the relevant ministers, including my colleague from Mobility. For the time being, it is impossible to provide you with a very precise timetable in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic582x.u53	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. You had already announced in November that there should be consultation with Mobility and Social Affairs. I don't think this has happened in the meantime. Secondly, there is a legislative proposal in the Chamber that may be included in the discussions, which may speed up the process. After all, we have created a gap by allowing the legislation to enter into force on 1 October, leaving a large number of users of speed pedals in the cold. After all, they had expected to receive a bicycle fee in exchange for their heavy investment and the effort they make to drive up to work. They are very impatient and I think we should be able to give them a clear answer as soon as possible. I'm counting on this to happen in the next few weeks.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic582x.u54	I would just like to confirm what Mr Van den Bergh has said. We hope to have solutions quite quickly and to have the fastest possible advance in the file.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic582x.u55	Minister, since 2015, horeca establishments whose turnover on the sale of meals to be consumed on site exceeds 25 000 euros per year, are obliged to be equipped with a Caisse Enregistreuse (SCE) system. At present, nearly 17,470 farms would be affected by this scheme, which aims to increase transparency and fair competition in the Horeca sector. Nevertheless, the professional federations representing the establishments subject to the SCE still consider that the entry into force of this system is penalising. They consider that restorers are not equal before the law in relation to other trades which, for their part, would not be subject to an increase in their financial and administrative burdens. On the other hand, it would appear that some aspects of the SCE would make it vulnerable. This includes the connection of the black box to the cash register. In this regard, the cable used, of type RS-232, would result in some computer problems due to its technological obsolescence, unlike a USB socket. Mr Minister, my remarks and my approach are very clear: the regulations put in place and the efforts to achieve a largely clean-up sector are obviously commendable. Nevertheless, I am also very sensitive to the difficulties that may be those of the entrepreneurs who are beating the heart of our country's economy. I would also like to know whether you have any data on the number of establishments with the SCE that have been subject to control so far. Are the results satisfactory? Is the proportion of establishments in regulatory and legal order consistent with government projections? Have you been informed of any reliability issues that the SCE may pose? If so, are measures planned to improve the system? Could you give us the content? In consultation with other members of the federal government, are there any new measures planned to avoid encountering circumvention practices of the SCE equipment?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic582x.u56	The obligation to issue a control document for the supply of meals and beverages consumed at this meal has existed since 1972 for any restaurant operator. For the restaurateurs concerned by the current rules, linked to the cash register system (SCE), the latter consists in replacing, as a control document, the VAT strain with the cash ticket of an SCE. In 2016, a decision of the Council of State annulled several implementing measures relating to the introduction of the SCE in Horeca establishments. As a result, the last provision which entered into force on 1 July 2016 determines that tickets from an SCE must be issued when annual turnover, excluding VAT, exceeds EUR 25 000. The amount is calculated on the basis of restaurant and catering services, excluding the supply of beverages. To ensure the uniform application of this new regulation, and in accordance with the charter signed between the government and the horeca sector, my administration has initiated control actions a few weeks after the publication of the legal provisions. They are aimed primarily at establishments which in 2015 exceeded the threshold of EUR 25 000 in catering and/or catering and which did not have an active ECS as of 1 July 2016; 3,054 establishments have already been checked, of which 70 % were in breach. This is a result consistent with expectations, given the method of selecting files. The other establishments with SCE have therefore not yet been checked. These actions will continue in 2017, accompanied by dissuasive fines, if any, to ensure fair competition between institutions, and thus a healthy market situation in this economic sector. The choice of a RS-233 link is a historical technical choice. While there are currently faster connections, the latter remains known for its stability. The administration has not reported any complaints about this. My administration is listening to constructive comments to improve the ECS if necessary. Where appropriate, it may consider optimising SCE technology. This will require extensive prior verification of the reliability of the SCE, particularly with regard to potential fraudulent manipulations.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic582x.u57	Minister, thank you for your answer. As you said, it is obviously important to maintain a balance between, on the one hand, an objective of reorganisation of this sector and, on the other hand, respect for a fair market between the various establishments. I admit it's not always obvious. I also take note of the opening of your administration to constructive comments and proposals that would improve the system. I think it's together that we can make things better. I will therefore return, if necessary, to you and your administration.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic582x.u58	Mr Minister, for those who, because of their state of health, are unable to properly perceive their own interests, the legislator provides for appropriate protection, namely the placement of the person under judicial protection in accordance with Articles 488 and 490 et seq. of the Civil Code. The Justice of the Peace shall designate a director who shall provide assistance or represent the protected person. In practice, the director is almost always paid a remuneration which is borne by the assets of the protected person. However, for the protected person, there appears to be no tax favor regimes to offset, where appropriate, the expenses associated with the conduct of the administration. For example, such expenditure does not give rise to a reduction in the taxable base. Nor do the expenditure linked to the administration give entitlement to any tax relief. Furthermore, such expenditure cannot be regarded as deductible professional costs as they are not related to the professional activity of the person concerned. Under the provisional regime, the then Minister of Finance was asked whether there were plans to amend Article 104 of the Income Tax Code, which deals with deductible expenditure, and thus provide for a deductible use of the costs of the administration. The reasoning behind that question was that 'that expenditure is vital for the maintenance of income from the assets of a taxable person who is in such a situation'. It is a question of 9 September 1994. According to the answer given by the Minister at the time to that parliamentary question, he would have given the order to prepare a draft to that effect. In any case, that intention did not lead to a change of law. However, it seems fair to me to make such expenditure tax-deductible, as these expenses are a result of the limitations on the health of the person and may be necessary for participation in legal transactions in the area of property law and/or personal law. Minister, I would have liked to have heard from you, following one of your predecessors, what your vision is and whether or not you can or will not take initiatives in this regard.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic582x.u59	Mr Vanvelthoven, the intention of taxing directors' remuneration as deductible expenditure has never been converted into a legislative amendment. Due to the special financing law, only maintenance payments can be deducted from the total net income since the tax year 2015. A tax advantage for directors' remuneration can therefore no longer be granted in the form of deductible expenditure. I acknowledge the problem and will ask my administration to look into it thoroughly and then to provide me with the necessary information.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic582x.u60	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I will return to the matter in a few months' time to find out what the thorough review of your administration has achieved.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic582x.u61	Mr President, Minister, as a result of the European Commission's decision on the Belgian overprofit rotations, our country has taken a course of proceedings to challenge the Commission's decision on your observations. First there was the interim injunction, in which our country got wrong. There is now an appeal procedure against the Commission's decision. First of all, do you have any idea of this procedure? Secondly, what costs have been incurred in the meantime for our country's over-profit-making procedures, including costs incurred by, among other things, the various Cabinets and Administrations?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic582x.u62	Mr President, Mr Vanvelthoven, on a proposal from the Council of Ministers, a specialised law firm was appointed to defend the interests of the Belgian State in the context of the European Commission's condemnation of the Belgian regime of excess profit rulings. The law firm thus appointed shall assist the Belgian State in the interim proceedings and in the appeal proceedings. The Council of Ministers of 29 January 2016 agreed on a certain expenditure ceiling in the framework of the public contract. To date, an amount of 264 000 euros, including VAT, has been paid in honorary wages. The costs of the policy cell and administration are contained in current expenditure and cannot be isolated.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic582x.u63	Mr Minister, I would have liked some information on the recovery of the tax advantages following the over-profit rotation. What amount was recovered in 2016 and if so already in 2017? What amount remains to be recovered? Does Europe accept that the amounts recovered will be considered as final income for 2016 and thus positively affect the 2016 balance of claims? If you were right and the decision of the European Commission was annulled in appeal, what would be the impact of the return of these sums to the companies concerned on the budget?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic582x.u64	Mr Vanvelthoven, EUR 410 million in 2016 and EUR 303 million in 2017. There are direct contacts with the Institute of National Accounts, which in turn, inter alia, continues to align with Eurostat's services. On the basis of that consultation, it was found that the federal government should indeed include the amounts recovered in the budgets for 2016 and 2017. This also seems to be dictated by the logic in general, since it is actually about corporate taxation. I do not want to anticipate the decision that will be taken by the European authorities. At the time of that decision, we will assess the exact impact and the financial year for which a possible impact will be attributed, as in the past in close consultation with the INR services.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic582x.u65	Mr. Secretary, do you have any idea the duration of the procedure? No, thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic582x.u66	Minister, the Cayman tax principle is that the revenue from legal arrangements is taxed when they are paid out and if they are not paid out, they are taxed as if they were paid out. That's what we call the viewing principle. It now appears that discretionary trust benefits, unlike fixed interest trusts, are not taxable. In our view, therefore, the Cayman tax can be avoided on a large scale by paying the trust's income, so that it cannot be taxed through the browsing principle. At the same time, they can be paid duty-free. However, I read in the explanatory notes on the design of the caiman tax and I quote: "Discretionary trusts are usually only discretionary on paper." In reality, the founder controls the power. Therefore, there seems to be no reason to change the treatment of fixed interest trusts and discretionary trusts'. We feel like we're dealing with a walking hole here. Hence my question to you as to whether you intend to close the back door by amending the law and making discretionary trust payments taxable.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic582x.u67	The income of a legal arrangement is taxed on the basis of the founder of the legal arrangement as if the founder had obtained it directly. Where the income is paid or granted to a beneficiary in the same period, such income shall be taxed not by the founder but by the beneficiary, as if the beneficiary had obtained it directly. For the purposes of the Cayman tax, no distinction is made between the so-called fixed interest trust or the discretionary trust.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic582x.u68	I thank the Minister for his confirmation that no distinction is made in the application. However, I am not sure that this is the case, but we will look into it more closely.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic582x.u69	Mr President, Minister, we have talked about this in the past. In April last year, following the PanamaLeaks, you announced that Panama would be placed on the list of tax havens. On 30 June last year, the Court adopted the Programme Act which, among other things, amends the provisions on the obligation to report payments to tax havens. As a result of Article 307 (1) of the Income Tax Code, taxable persons shall be required to declare all payments made directly or indirectly to persons established in a tax haven. In concrete terms, it concerns the States listed in Article 179 of the Royal Decree implementing the Income Tax Code. Following the mentioned amendment of the law, the list of tax havens should therefore be adjusted by means of a royal decree submitted by the Council of Ministers. As far as I can tell, that KB hasn't been published yet. I've heard winds blowing that you would consider resolving this through a circular. Hence my questions, Minister. How's that going? How are you gonna handle this? By what time do you think Panama could actually be included in that list of tax havens?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic582x.u70	Mr Vanvelthoven, on 4 November 2016, the global forum identified Guatemala, the Marshall Islands, Micronesia, Panama, Trinidad and Tobago as non-compliant for not effectively and substantially applying the international standard on transparency and exchange of information for tax purposes. An administrative circular of 26 January 2017 identifies those five jurisdictions, including Panama, as from 4 November 2016 as States which do not apply the standard for the exchange of information upon request in a substantial or effective manner and introduces the declaration obligation for payments made from 4 November 2016 to persons, permanent establishments or bank accounts managed in one of those jurisdictions, regardless of the taxable period or financial year in which those payments take place. There is therefore no need to amend the legal list in order to make payments to Panama subject to reporting obligations, which means that there is no need to review that list in the short term. As you may know, the European Commission has also begun an exercise to arrive at a common list of tax havens in consultation with the Member States. I have asked the administration to wait until we have the European Commission's list with its exercise.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic582x.u71	Mr President, I would like to thank the Minister for his reply and also for its content. In my opinion, it is excellent to settle this with a circular referring to the decision of 4 November 2016, so that it is indeed resolved in that way.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic582x.u72	Minister, I have already asked questions about this in the past. You said then that the College for the fight against tax and social fraud has met since the start of the government on 27 January 2015 and on 27 April 2016. The Ministerial Committee had only met once at that time, on 18 July 2016. Has the college been meeting since then? If so, when? Has the ministerial committee met in the meantime? What decisions were made?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic582x.u73	The next college is currently being prepared, of course together with the competent Secretary of State. This college is likely to take place in March. A detailed state of play was made at the plenary session on 18 July 2016. The various points are now being followed up further.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic582x.u74	Mr Minister, could you be more precise on the various points? I would be interested to hear something more specific about what was being discussed there.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic582x.u75	Can I write that down?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic582x.u76	Yeah, no problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic582x.u77	Mr President, Minister, this too is a repeat question. In reply to a previous question, you replied that, because of professional secrecy, you could not provide specific information on this matter. For the sake of clarity, I do not ask you for specific information on specific taxable persons. I'm not asking you about the BBI investigation into Optima or a very specific customer. All I'm asking you is a number. You announced yourself at a certain time, especially just after the Optima affair exploded, that you would have the files reopened. I know that you have given numbers and global amounts in other situations. You have done so both spontaneously in the past and in response to questions in this committee. It was Panama Papers, SwissLeaks, LuxLeaks. So I simply ask you to do the same in Optima's file. How many files were opened or reopened after you announced that last year?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic582x.u78	Mr President, Mr Vanvelthoven, the rules in force, and I refer in particular, of course, to the principle of 'una', the BBI does not at present allow specific administrative investigations to be carried out on the 146 files requested by the public prosecutor. For the rest, unfortunately, I cannot answer more or less than what I said to your question No. 15432, a few weeks or months ago.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic582x.u79	Mr Minister, I note that this actually means that no dossier can be reopened, whether it is wanted or not, because of the una via principle.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic582x.u80	Yes.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic582x.u81	Minister, the government was counting on EUR 250 million in additional income as a result of the introduction of a new regulatory framework for real estate funds. The short-term income, in other words, in 2016 had to be fully offset by the exit tax, which is accompanied by a switch to the new regime. In response to an earlier question, you say that at the end of January you could provide an answer to my question about the proceeds of that exit tax in 2016. In terms of timing, I am perfect because yesterday was the end of the month of January. Can you give us how much that exit tax paid in 2016?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic582x.u82	Mr Vanvelthoven, the sum of 250 million is expressed in ESA terms. This means that payments, which will be made until the end of February, can and will still be included in the implementations for the financial year 2016. By the end of March, the proceeds will be definitively known.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic582x.u83	We'll have to wait.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic582x.u84	Minister, during the discussion of the adaptation of the diamond regime, also known as the carat tax, at the end of last year, you maintained that the sector would make 50 million more advance payments in 2016 than in 2015. To my earlier question, you replied that you could provide an answer to my question about the advance payments in 2016 at the end of January. That is why I repeat my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic582x.u85	Mr Vanvelthoven, I can give you a concrete answer here. For the year 2016, €51.2 million in advance payments were made. The total impact of the measure will only be known after the collection of the 2017 tax year, revenue year 2016. Those figures will only be known by September or October 2018.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic582x.u86	Thank you, Minister, for your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic582x.u87	Minister, in April, you announced that you would increase the number of tax officials made available to justice by the FPS from 15 to 30. In your reply to my question of October last year, you indicated that this had not yet been settled. On the other hand, Minister Peeters announced that 72 inspectors and inspectors of the Economic Inspectorate will be given the status of 'Justice Police Officer' this week. In your December 2015 action plan, you announced that you wanted to do the same for a number of BBI officials. My questions on this are as follows. What progress has been made on increasing the number of tax officials from 15 to 30? What is the distribution between the different areas of office? What is the status of judicial police officer for civil servants of the BBI?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic582x.u88	Mr Vanvelthoven, my plan to combat tax fraud at the end of 2015 indeed includes an investigation into the possibility of granting the status of a judicial officer to a limited number of staff of the BBI. The research in question requires an approach from a variety of angles, such as the purely legal aspect, for example the taxpayer's charter, operational added value, for example the exact number of BBI officers and the circumstances, the interaction with the court, e.g. notifications and una-via-consultation, and the ambition to achieve a truly integrated approach to, in particular, large-scale fraud. All this must also take account of other ongoing initiatives, such as pending legislation and conclusions of various parliamentary committees. Finally, it goes without saying that I will be closely involved and involved in this exercise with my colleague in the Justice Department. Discussions with the Justice Department on the transfer of tax officials to the public prosecutors are currently under way.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic582x.u89	Minister, I take it that it is not easy, but we are talking about the end of 2015, we are now at the beginning of 2017, I note that everything is going on, but it is time to start landing.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic582x.u90	Mr President, Minister, following the so-called LuxLeaks scandal, the International Consortium of Research Journalists published a list of rulings delivered by Luxembourg. You then stated that those rulings would be examined by the Special Tax Inspectorate. You also stated that Luxembourg had provided a number of rulings to the Belgian tax administration, although not on the basis of the rulings made public by the International Consortium of Research Journalists. In response to a previous question, you stated that the investigations following the rulings published by the International Consortium of Journalists of Research led to an increase in the taxable basis of EUR 7.6 million, on which EUR 2.7 million of income taxes were established. With regard to the 13 rulings received from Luxembourg, you indicated that they did not give rise to any corrections. Minister, I would have liked to hear from you the following. Can you update the figures you provided last time, in particular the total increase in the taxable base, the established income taxes and the amounts actually paid, both for the files of the International Consortium of Research Journalists and for the files opened following the rulings received from Luxembourg?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic582x.u91	Mr President, Mr Vanvelthoven, my administration has informed me, after examining the statistical material and despite additional efforts that have been made, that the figures mentioned in the previous reply, to which you referred briefly, have not changed significantly.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic582x.u92	Thank you, Minister, for your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic582x.u93	We have thus completed Mr Vanvelthoven's questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic582x.u94	Minister, we learn from the press that bpost bank should accelerate its development in the field of credit. A €4 billion credit portfolio is targeted within four years. At present, bpost bank has a significant share of its assets in the form of Belgian State bonds, which earn less and less due to a low interest rate. As a result, bpost bank seeks to convert its deposits, close to EUR 10 billion, into more remunerative assets through credit. It has signed a series of contracts to this end, including the purchase of Krefima, a network of credit brokers based in Antwerp, and the signing of a financing agreement with Elantis, a brokerage network owned by Belfius. Minister, can you give us more information on these investments? How will the purchase of Krefima and d'Elantis support the development of bpost bank credits? Finally, what are the long-term objectives of bpost banks in terms of mortgages, investments and consumer credit?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic582x.u95	Mr Devin, bpost bank is a Belgian bank held equally by bpost and BNP Paribas Fortis. It is managed by an independent steering committee. So far, it has offered only a range of savings, investment and day-to-day management products. In order to better meet the needs of its customers and to increase the return on assets as a result of the decline in returns on OLOs, bpost bank believes it is important for it to diversify its operations for commercial and financial reasons. This is why it has undertaken to develop its credit activities. This development takes place, on the one hand, by extending the offer in the post offices - which are the preferred distribution channel for bpost banks - and, on the other hand, by taking several strategic initiatives. In this context, bpost bank has signed a financing agreement with the credit operator Elantis, a subsidiary of Belfius Insurance. The acquisition of Krefima also gives him access to a network of more than 1,500 brokers. Krefima is the main independent player in the retail credit market through brokerage. Through these different distribution channels, bpost bank aims to reach a credit portfolio of 4 billion by 2020. Data on bpost bank's long-term objectives for mortgages, investments and consumer credit are confidential information of the company. You will understand that bpost bank does not want to disclose them.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic582x.u96	Minister, the Belgian General Cleaning Union (UGBN) has recently denounced the fact that the SPF Finances has concluded a cleaning contract with a private company at an hourly rate of 16.91 euros. The UGBN suspects that such a low rate can only be granted by means of social and tax fraud. This strong reaction is easily understood: if companies evade social and tax charges, they can offer lower tariffs and thus distort competition rules vis-à-vis law-abiding firms. But from the point of view of the public authorities, this alleged fraud is also harmful. What is earned on the expenditure side, by paying low prices for cleaning services, is lost on the revenue side, since tax and parafiscal contributions are not paid. And the loss exceeds the gain, since it is the whole social and tax system that is thus undermined. The UGBN points out in particular a recent cleaning contract concluded by the SPF Finances for an average price of 16.91 euros per hour. I found the company that got the deal at such a rate. By analysing the social balance sheet accompanying the company's latest annual accounts (2015), I see an hourly wage cost of around 23 euros. This amount is obtained by dividing the annual salary costs by the total number of hours worked by staff over the year. Minister, without having to mention the name of this company, you have enough information to identify it and answer the following questions. How can a company sell for 16,91 euros an hour's work that costs 23 euros, without even taking into account other expenses (services and miscellaneous goods, depreciation, financial charges, etc.) and profit margin, since the company is in bonus? What are the criteria used and the procedure followed by the Finance FPS to select the clean-up firms? Is no analysis of the company's accounts – including hourly wage costs – conducted to assess the feasibility of clean-up missions within a framework that respects social and fiscal laws? If I see this anomaly, it seems to me that the administration can do the same. Finally, are you considering measures to prevent such situations from going on?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic582x.u97	Mr Van Hees, my administration has told me that the information disclosed by the UGBN in its communiqué of 23 January last is incorrect in many ways: firstly, by claiming that the FPS Finances would promote social fraud and, secondly, by referring to an incorrect hourly rate in this Belga communiqué. It also seems to me important to recall that the UGBN represents, of course, a good part of the cleaning sector, but certainly not all of it. The rate of 25 euros per hour is fixed by this professional union without my services having the method of calculation. Under no circumstances can it be used as a reference, under the penalty of hindering competition with cleaning companies which are not members of the UGBN or which fall within the scope of the social economy. It also appears to be an obstacle to competition for the members of this association. With regard to the case concerning the NBU, it should also be noted that the successful tenderer is a member of the NBU. In addition, pursuant to Article 21 of the Royal Decree of 15 July 2011 on the award of public contracts, my services systematically carry out price verification to see if prices can be considered to be abnormally low. On the basis of the justifications provided by the tenderers, it was each time considered that they were plausible in the light of the knowledge available to my services of the various employment aid schemes generally invoked by the companies members of the UGBN to deviate from the hourly rates fixed by the UGBN. Without waiting for the new public procurement regulations to come into force, my services have adopted a series of measures to combat social fraud. Firstly, the special specifications require the commitment of each tenderer to comply with the legislation of the social security labour law. Second, the award criterion is framed by a range of hours to complete the benefits claimed. A minimum and maximum number of hours are fixed annually and cannot be derogated from at least or at most. This range is intended to prevent some bidders from breaking prices without being able to perform the services requested. I am therefore surprised that the UGBN can say that my services would accept the lowest price without regard to the feasibility of this price. Thirdly, concrete measures have been implemented in the execution of contracts: communication of employment contracts and the identity of the provider's staff; communication of the DIMONA or LIMOSA declaration of each member of the staff to ensure that they are in good standing at the level of social legislation and to prevent the company from using workers from other companies to perform benefits. Communication of the type of employment contract linking the staff to the contractor; communication, also, of the work permit; systematic recording of the presence with the use of a grid to be completed by requesting the name, first name, time of entry and exit and the company by which they are employed; and a monitoring of the benefits. As far as the latter measures are concerned, they are in line with the plan of the Secretary of State for the fight against social fraud, in particular with regard to the part devoted to the registration of presences.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic582x.u98	Minister, thank you. The range of measures you're detailing reassures me. In general, I think they are good. However, when you say that the NBU statement includes inaccurate statements, what are you talking about? From 16,91 euros? Is that the incorrect information in the press release? That's the problem. If a firm proposes a cleaning market at 16.91 euros per hour and it practices prices of 23 euros per hour, as I have seen in these annual accounts, this is problematic. So, what is the incorrect information in the NBFU release?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic582x.u99	I think I have given you the context in which these figures are being examined. (...) the 25 euros whose hourly rate we talk about all the time.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic582x.u100	You are therefore challenging the 25 euros mentioned in the UGBN press release.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic582x.u101	FPS officials are reviewing all of this. It's on a case-by-case basis.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic582x.u102	I have noted this, the review and all the measures. But you're telling us that there's false information in the UGBN press release. I want to know if this false information is the average of 25 euros per hour or the fact that this company had the market for 16,91 euros per hour. That's all the difference. If this is the estimation of the averages by the UGBN, this is the problem of the UGBN. If there is a company that takes clean-up contracts at 16.91 euros per hour, there is a problem and the measures taken by the Finance FPS to control public procurement are not sufficient. 16.91 euros per hour, especially when looking at the company's annual accounts, this is significant of a problem, since their own wage cost is more than 16.91 euros.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic582x.u103	I have just indicated that measures have been taken at the level of labour costs. It's a little complicated, but that's how it is.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic582x.u104	So I will not have an answer to my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic582x.u105	Mr.President, Minister, a Royal Order of January 12, 2017 determines the professional discount for income subject to income tax. In this regard, income from the collaborative economy would be particularly affected, with a source deduction of 10%, in partnership with the relevant platforms. Notwithstanding the necessary regulation of the new digital economy and collaborative consumption, including tax, a number of questions are raised. For example, some observers fear that this new framework will penalize service offerings with a lack of attractiveness; others believe that there may even be some form of discrimination. According to some lawyers, "rental income from private property is not subject to taxation. Therefore, taxing the same property that would be leased through a collaborative platform could be a source of criticism." Therefore, Minister, I would like to take stock of this issue by asking you the following questions. On the basis of the comments made, can you clarify the scope of this order? What answers can be provided to reassure consumers and collaborative entrepreneurs? What mechanisms have been put in place to facilitate the effective collaboration of relevant platforms in this context?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic582x.u106	Mr Calomne, we should first briefly recall the regime introduced by the programme law of 1 July 2016. Revenues from services between individuals provided through a collaborative economy platform approved by the King or organised by a public authority are taxed as miscellaneous income at an effective rate of 10% since 1 July 2016. Revenues that are described as personal, real or professional income are explicitly excluded. The Income Tax Code therefore provides that income from the rental of private property is excluded from this scheme, since it is either movable income or real property income. These personal or real income are subject to the ordinary system, i.e. a separate tax of 30% for income related to the rental of furniture and globalization for real estate income. There can be no question of discrimination since no special regime applies to the rental of property made on a licensed platform. The Royal Decree of 12 January 2017 determining the professional discount applicable to income from the collaborative economy only determines the amount of the professional discount to be levied by electronic platforms. In accordance with the law, where a global allowance is claimed for both a service provided and a rental of real or immovable property and the individuals themselves do not determine the breakdown of that overall allowance, only 20 per cent of that overall allowance may be taxed as income from the cooperative economy, which in this case justifies the application of a professional allowance of about 2 per cent. If the income is only related to a service benefit, then the occupational discount rate is 10%. This order will shortly be submitted to the House of Representatives for confirmation. Another royal decree also adopted on 12 January 2017 lays down the conditions and arrangements for the approval of electronic platforms. The latter are encouraged to participate, as the income of their users will benefit from an effective tax of 10 % instead of an ordinary rate for miscellaneous income of 33 %. It can therefore be reasonably assumed that service providers will want to use an approved platform.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic582x.u107	Minister, thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic582x.u108	Minister, as you know, SECAL is carrying out a particularly important mission. The number of applications for advances as a result of non-payment of child-rearing support claims continues to increase. At the end of November, for example, there were 10,666 cases, corresponding to 18,170 children. The amount of advances is also growing, as we have exceeded $25 million since 2015. In addition, while recovery rates have increased slightly since the entry into force of the scheme, they are only 35 or 36 per cent. So we are facing a situation that needs to be resolved. Among those which have long been referred to by the SECAL Evaluation Commission in order to facilitate the missions of advances and recovery, it is suggested that SECAL should have access to judgements relating to maintenance claims. The objective is to avoid complicated administrative procedures to verify whether advances are necessary and, if so, to determine their amount and the amount of recovery. In his 2017 Policy Note and Budget 2017, the Minister of Justice stated that the VAJA platform would allow the automatic transfer of decisions to lawyers. However, he felt that justice of the peace and family courts were not part of the proceedings on the platform. I interviewed him, and he replied that this would only be the case from the end of the year. In other words, information on judgements relating to maintenance claims is not available to SECAL. He also argued: "With the amendment provided for in Bill Pot-pourri IV, the SECAL will be able to be equipped with an e-box. (The VAJA platform) will therefore be able to communicate electronically with SECAL. The problem with SECAL is that it does not have an enforceable order for a claim against a maintenance debtor. Therefore, this problem is not solved on the merits by a copy of the judgement. It is necessary to adapt the law in order to enable the service itself to draw up enforceable titles on the basis of the decision to intervene and the actual payment of maintenance". Therefore, I would like to know whether the SECAL should take a step so that it meets the expected requirements and whether you are in contact with the Minister of Justice for that purpose.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic582x.u109	Mr President, Minister, the point of view of my question is different but it affects the same problem. The DAVO does not intervene in the payment of advances for extraordinary costs. However, there are many problems of non-payment in this area too. If a parent is forced to recover the extraordinary costs, this must be done through service and enforcement of the judgment. If the DAVO intervenes with regard to the maintenance fee, the service would like to hold the gross, enforceable title of the judgment in its first instance. That's a requirement. However, it is refused to return the gross amount to the person in question for the forced execution of the extraordinary costs. The creditor therefore has the following choice. Either stop the file at the DAVO and collect the maintenance money and the extraordinary costs via forced execution. Either continue the dossier with the DAVO and bear the extraordinary costs alone. Minister, are you aware of this problem? Do you see a solution to the problem? If so, which one?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic582x.u110	Mrs Lahaye-Battheu, first of all, please excuse me, but the answer to your question was fully prepared in French. Under the current rules, the SECAL collects amounts due as maintenance, by means of a constraint. It is an enforceable title that the administration has created for itself. SECAL therefore has the possibility of drawing up an enforceable order itself. It may also use the large, enforceable copy issued to the parties to the court decision handed over by the maintenance creditor. The provision to SECAL of judgments and judgments granting maintenance through the central register of judgments, judgments and acts granting maintenance, provided for in the 2014 law or through the VAJA platform, will lead to administrative simplification and standardization of working methods during the establishment and processing of cases by this service. However, this does not prevent him from being able to issue a constraint in order to recover maintenance payments. In my policy note of 28 October 2016, I also expressed my willingness to move towards codification, harmonisation and simplification of the procedures and rules for the collection of all claims under public law, including non-tax recoveries and SECAL. In this context, we must ask the question of maintaining constraint as a means of recovering maintenance claims. The drafting of a constraint is in fact an old procedure which results in a large manual workload. Consideration could be given to replacing it with a faster, modern and computer-based process, as is provided for non-tax claims by the 1949 Act, as amended by the 2016 Program Act. As you indicate, data relevant to SECAL, including those contained in the Family Courts' decision, are currently not available in a database. The issue of access to SETAL is therefore premature.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic582x.u111	I hear your answer and the objectives you are pursuing. Of course we share them. To be able to simplify and from the data of judgments is good, but unfortunately it will take another year. You do not agree with the Minister of Justice's analysis that the SECAL does not have an enforceable order for a claim against a maintenance debtor. According to you, SECAL has all these powers and there is nothing to change. I do not know if the fact that you do not agree with the assessment is a consequence, but it would be good for you to discuss it. I therefore invite you to harmonise the points of view to see if there is anything to do beyond this platform where I hope it will go faster than by the end of 2017.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic582x.u112	Minister, I do not think I have received an answer on the specific problem I raised. As an example, I'll give a parent who has to receive 600 euros of maintenance money every month, but doesn't get it and therefore contact the DAVO according to the conditions. In addition, there are extraordinary costs, for example two students, for which the other parent has to pay 300 euros each month, half of the room rate, to the other parent, but these payments do not happen either. The disadvantaged parent calls the DAVO with the message that they want to recover themselves, for which that parent needs the gross amount. However, the DAVO itself keeps the bulk to avoid double recovery. I understand that philosophy somewhere, but then you'll be there as a parent. As a parent one can then decide to draw his plan with those room costs, but for some parents that is priceless. The parent can also opt to transfer the gross and collect everything himself. You must not misunderstand me, I do not advocate that the government should bear the extraordinary costs, but there is a practical problem that some parents face with a difficult choice.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic582x.u113	If you agree, I will provide you with a comprehensive answer by e-mail to that specific question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic582x.u114	Mr President, this somewhat complicated question seems to me to be of great importance. Minister, on 27 October 2016, the FSMA issued an interpretative notice on the obligation to publish a prospectus in case of public tenders for registered cooperative companies pursuant to the Act of 25 April 2014 amending the Act of 16 June 2006 on public offers of investment instruments and admissions of investment instruments to trading on regulated markets. To date, there has been an exemption from prospectuses for registered cooperatives. However, it would appear that the FSMA now considers that co-operatives pursuing a mixed purpose, i.e. who provide the partners with an economic or social advantage in meeting their private and professional needs, no longer benefit from this exemption. FSMA estimated that the issuer should ensure that individuals do not subscribe to more than EUR 5,000. Today, it considers that the ceiling of EUR 5 000 applies to all co-operators who subscribe to the public offer made by the cooperative, whether they are private or not. FSMA has also changed its view on another element: it now considers that it is possible to combine an exempt public offer with a separate offer not of a public nature and therefore not subject to the ceiling of EUR 5 000. For example, an offer to founding partners, which would be less than 150 – since it is a limit that it imposes – is covered by this provision. In order to be able to talk about separate offers, FSMA recommends using different investment instruments and thus different categories of shares, advantages and returns. Otherwise, it considers these to be false categories. Socially authorised co-operative companies are therefore obliged to amend their statutes concerning the conditions under which they would make new calls for capitalisation from their existing co-operators or from new co-operators. The secondary effect is that all cooperatives will therefore be obliged to categorize their co-operators, while participating in the same project. It will probably be necessary to invent systems of different categories, thus different voting rights or different returns, whereas in the philosophy of many cooperatives, especially for social purposes, there is a standardization of the rights given by the purchase or financial participation in this cooperative. But this also means that any licensed co-operative with a mixed activity who wishes to use new shares for a total of more than EUR 5 000 will have to publish a prospectus, which is horribly expensive. According to the scales available on the FSMA website, if the transaction is less than one million, it is necessary to pay 5,800 euros. Then this increases to 10 880 euros between 1 and 10 million, and then 21 750 euros if the limit of 10 million is exceeded. Nevertheless, this is an obstacle to the development of cooperatives, I believe. I would like to ask you whether the new interpretations of the FSMA met the government's political objectives vis-à-vis cooperative societies. The reform of the Corporate Code is under way under the leadership of the Minister of Justice, Mr Geens, and also concerns cooperative societies. Is this already the result of this work? What is your attitude to this new interpretation of the FSMA? By subjecting societies to participatory management and cooperatives to the same requirements as capitalist societies, is it not threatening their development or even their existence?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic582x.u115	Ms Gerkens, in 2014, the conditions under which licensed co-operatives could benefit from a prospectus exemption in a public offer of shares were granted with the legislation concerning their authorisation and adapted in the light of the new economic reality of which it is found that in some cases shares are acquired not to carry out an investment but to be able to use the services of cooperatives. In the case of cooperatives intended exclusively or also to provide an advantage to individuals, a maximum of EUR 5 000 per co-operator is foreseen. However, this threshold is not applicable to cooperative companies to which co-operators join for professional reasons, such as agricultural cooperatives or in the distribution sector. The legislative amendment concerning cooperatives is independent of the reform of corporate law. On the basis of the questions it has since received in this context, the FSMA has given, not a new interpretation of the conditions, but only provided clarifications consistent with the objective pursued by the legislator, without imposing any additional obligation. Following the questions received, the FSMA did state that, according to its analysis, the limit of EUR 5 000 is applicable to all subscribers but that they are limited to public tenders. This ceiling does not apply to non-public offers, which is self-evident. As far as the surplus is concerned, I would point out that while approved cooperatives may, subject to the conditions laid down, issue shares of up to EUR 5 million over a period of 12 months without issuing prospectuses, other companies are generally allowed to issue shares of up to EUR 100 000. The purpose of the prospectus exemption for registered co-operatives is therefore to strike a balance between the development of the co-operative sector on the one hand and the protection of co-operators on the other. Since the legislative amendment, 43 cooperative companies have notified FSMA, in accordance with the prospectus law, that they are using the exemption from the above-mentioned prospectus.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic582x.u116	As much as I can of course share the concern to protect co-operators in their investments, as much as participation and investment in a co-operative are part of a citizen investment with participation and control on the part of co-operators on management. I myself am a member of several co-operatives and I realize that changes to the statutes are taking place at the moment. Co-operatives that function well and want to increase their capital and co-operators who want to invest in this type of company, who have participated in the foundation of co-operatives, are struck by the inability to participate more when there is a need for additional capital to develop economic activity or related services. On the other hand, forcing cooperatives to create categories of shares with different advantages – on which the FSMA seems to be really decided – with a justification for the setting up of different shares and different beneficiaries seems to be detrimental to development and citizen participation. I find that there is a lot of energy being put into trying to protect the co-operator, but I have the impression that it is rather a question of preventing the development of this type of economic activity from other types of economic activity where the possibilities of controlling shareholders - here they are co-operators - are much less. I would like us to think about this again. Finally, information to cooperative societies has not been proactive at all. It is because a newspaper like Financia published articles and alerted the cooperatives that they were well informed. I find it unfortunate that there was no proactive information.
