ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic647x.u1	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Luykx's 17321 was converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic647x.u2	Minister, over the last few weeks the referendum on the possible separation of Scotland from the United Kingdom has been discussed in the media and in many fora. The President of the Northern Irish Sinn Fein Party also calls for a referendum to be held on leaving the United Kingdom. The effects of the Brexit are also dramatic for Northern Ireland, not only for Flanders. It is hoped that these effects will be minimized by attaching themselves to the Republic of Ireland. This proposal came shortly after Prime Minister Sturgeon's announcement of the Scottish referendum. We understand that the debate is taking place there, but I also have a few questions about it. How do you see this situation? Could this, in your view, have an impact on the Northern Irish peace process? How do you see the further communication around this file so that tensions are not increased? Do you think there is any possibility that European subsidies will be withdrawn if political parties in Northern Ireland take advantage of the Brexit negotiations to seek out the conflict? I want to thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic647x.u3	Mr Luykx, the conflict between the two countries, an official peace in Northern Ireland, came to an end in 1998. The European Union played an important role in the context of the Northern Irish peace process. A British departure from the European Union could, among other things, affect conflict management measures in the context of the Northern Irish peace process and its EU funding, as well as the border regime between the United Kingdom and the Irish Republic. The possibility of a change in the existing condition feeds aspirations of attachment on one side, and fears for it on the other. I refer to the Sinn Fein statement on a possible referendum. This is therefore indeed a risk to the peace process. There are also still armed groups that are striving for one united Ireland and other groups that wish to prevent this from happening. Following the elections in Northern Ireland on 2 March, it was hoped that the parties would quickly form a government and relaunch the dialogue in this context. Since the blow-up of the coalition talks by the Catholic-Republican Sinn Fein, June 29th was put forward as a new deadline for a government formation. As regards the deadline, Belgium has no advice to give. We can only encourage constructive communication between the parties. It is not up to us to comment on the United Kingdom's internal communication strategy. In its white paper on the exit of the United Kingdom from the European Union, British Prime Minister Theresa May stated that he wanted to maintain freedom of movement with the Republic of Ireland. In addition, she mentioned in the future that she wanted to continue to respect the agreements of the Good Friday Agreement. There are several European programmes and grants available to Northern Ireland, including the EU Peace Programme for Peace and Reconciliation aimed at strengthening progress towards a peaceful and stable society in Northern Ireland and the border region of Ireland. At present, however, there is no indication that there would be any reason to question the funding of this programme. I should like to add that I have been in contact with both my colleagues from Ireland and the United Kingdom. So far, I have not received an exact answer to the question of how the relationship between the two countries may evolve after the Brexit. That will be a very specific point during the negotiations. However, there were no real preparatory work before the Brexit and before the decisions after the referendum. So we must now wait for a number of proposals. So far I have only heard an analysis but not a real proposal on a possible solution after the Brexit.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic647x.u4	Minister, it is important that we remain proactive about the new dynamics that are emerging. I still feel that not everyone on the ground realizes how far the Brexit can have an impact on developments in Catalonia, Scotland and Ireland, for example. It is true that we should not replace the Irish. Nor should we determine their communication. However, there are certain effects and risks associated with the situation, which you also recognise. We must open the debate, perhaps not directly within the framework of my current question and your answer. Asking the question is sometimes more important than getting an answer. The debate may perhaps take place as part of a special initiative in the Committee on External Relations. However, I will discuss this with the other Members. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic647x.u5	Madam President, Minister, you took the lead in Geneva last year in calling for better control of the Copenhagen criteria at the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights. These are criteria in terms of human rights, democratic principles and economic conditions that candidate countries must fulfil. You regretted that these criteria would not be subject to stricter controls after acceptance of the new Member State and would like to see a system that would follow the state of the rule of law and human rights in Member States, so that there would be continuous monitoring, which I believe would be a good thing. Especially in the context of the various ongoing procedures for EU membership of a number of Western Balkan countries, your plea is very interesting. In the current situation, the EU has no advantage in allowing countries that are not so close to human rights and other rights. I have a few questions on this, Minister. Have you already started to develop the periodic monitoring mechanism you advocated? What is the government's and EU's position on a better control system? Does the EU already have concrete plans? Is there anything in the making yet? Can you reiterate what added value and functions this mechanism could have in a possible future EU enlargement procedure?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic647x.u6	Madam President, Mr Luykx, respect for human rights and the achievements of the rule of law are, as you rightly say, important elements of the Copenhagen criteria to be met by candidate countries when they wish to become members of the European Union. However, after accession, the importance of these criteria does not cease to exist. That is why, on behalf of the government, I launched in the General Affairs Council the proposal for a periodic monitoring mechanism, which regularly evaluates respect for the important principles of the rule of law and human rights in all Member States. This proposal for a periodic monitoring mechanism was welcomed by a significant number of EU Member States. Belgium organised a seminar on this subject at official level in July 2016. In October 2016, I attended a ministerial meeting in Rome. The General Affairs Council of November last year decided to take a further step towards such a monitoring mechanism through a more structured horizontal discussion within the Council on central questions on respect for the rule of law. In its conclusions, the Slovak Presidency indicated the explicit possibility of a periodic monitoring mechanism in a subsequent reflection on the rule of law dialogue. Belgium and other like-minded Member States will continue to argue in favour of this. The fact that, even after accession, such a periodic monitoring mechanism would carry out a regular review of the Copenhagen criteria in relation to the candidate countries underlines the need for sustainable reforms of the rule of law, with a view to maintaining demonstrable results in the field of fundamental rights and freedoms, and in the fight against corruption and organised crime. Very concretely, Mr Luykx, we are now evolving step by step. I now have the agreement of about 15 out of 28 Member States after the Brexit 27 Member States. I also have the support of a number of political groups in the European Parliament. We have contacted the members of the General Affairs Council and the European Parliament. Step by step, however, also means a possible evolution within the Council. We now have a horizontal approach, for example by discussing in all the Member States the evolution of freedom of the press or another item. Then perhaps over the next two years, which is very long at European level, I hope to be able to establish a real monitoring mechanism for all European Member States. I would like to add, as I have always said in plenary sessions, that as a former Minister of Finance, I consider it necessary to do so. It is not enough just to check the budgets, euro per euro. That is necessary, but not enough. We must make the same assessment of the evolution of the rule of law. Since a number of recent elections in Europe, it has become increasingly urgent to find such a solution.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic647x.u7	Minister, we fully support this initiative and the way in which you operate; 15 out of 27 Member States, that is a significant number. It is also interesting that you want this monitoring to take place thematically, for example on freedom of the press. That way we can mature the idea and realize the system step by step. We think it is very important to ensure that monitoring is structured and continuous.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic647x.u8	Madam President, Deputy Prime Minister, on March 15, the UN Economic and Social Commission for Western Asia (ESCWA) published on its website a report written by two international law experts, American professors Richard Falk and Virginia Tilley. The text concluded, after a census and analysis of numerous discriminations against Palestinians, that "Israel is guilty of policies and practices constituting the crime of apartheid". The term is very strong. The authors of this report even called on UN member countries to support the international campaign BDS (Boycott, Disinvestment, Sanctions), which advocates the complete boycott of the State of Israel. On 17 March, under pressure from the new Secretary-General of the United Nations, who himself was strongly questioned by the ambassadors of Israel and, above all, by the new Ambassador of the United States, the Executive Secretary of ESCWA, Jordan's Rima Khalaf, resigned. As a result, the report was removed from the United Nations website. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, how did our ambassador to the United Nations react in the international arena to this act of censorship that runs counter to all United Nations principles? Has a European position been agreed in order to see the Member States react in the same way in this difficult case? In the absence of a BDS approach, is this umpteenth case not likely to see you strengthen any initiative to label more effectively and then ban products from the Israeli settlement of Palestine for sale in Belgium?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic647x.u9	Madam President, Mr Hellings, neither Belgium nor the European Union are members of the United Nations Economic and Social Commission for Western Asia, which is a regional body. It is therefore not up to us to decide on the internal procedures in the United Nations leading to the publication of a report from that commission, nor to make a judgement on the decision to resign from Ms. Khalaf. I will therefore not dwell on these decisions in which we have not taken any part. The European Union and Belgium have a clear position on the Middle East peace process, based on essential principles unanimously recognized by the international community, including parameters on how to achieve a two-State peace – I recall the conclusions of the Foreign Affairs Council in July 2014 – and an unequivocal condemnation of all measures that risk ruining this solution, first and foremost the policy of colonization of the territories occupied by Israel. This position, which is also reflected in many conclusions on the Middle East peace process of the Foreign Affairs Council, has not changed. Belgium, like the European Union, does not miss an opportunity to remind the Israeli authorities of this message. That is the heart of our message. Belgium and the European Union want to focus on this. As regards the application of the Commission's interpretative communication on indications of origin, I draw attention to the fact that the implementation of the rules on trade and the market in goods and services falls within the competence of my colleague the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Employment, Economy and Consumer Affairs. I have already drawn the attention of the various ministers responsible for this in successive governments. As for a possible ban on the sale of colonial products, you know that this decision can only be taken at European Union level. However, there is, and certainly not at the moment, a real will within the European Union to adopt further measures in this area, given that interpretative communication is generally considered to be sufficiently clear. I have given all the relevant information to the minister responsible.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic647x.u10	Minister, I am well aware that Belgium is not part of the UN's Western Asia Commission. It is a very useful geographical precision that you have brought. On the other hand, the new Secretary-General of the United Nations, of which we are a member, is the basis of the pressure exerted on the person in question, Mrs. Rima Khalaf. A movement or position taken by Belgium, if only by letter, could have been interesting. It would have been appreciated if we could discuss it with our allies in the European Union in order to reach a joint letter with one or more other member countries. I'm not going to go back to the bottom of the case. I just note that American university professors have used the strong word "apartheid" in an official UN report, although they have in the meantime withdrawn it. I believe that this should attract our attention and influence our attitude towards the Israeli government in the coming weeks and months. In particular, this should encourage us to take more proactive and determined action to prohibit the sale in Europe and Belgium of products illegally manufactured in the territories occupied by Israel in Palestine.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic647x.u11	Mr Deputy Prime Minister, at the invitation of the President of the Syrian Parliament but with the political and logistical support of Russia, and under the auspices of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, a Brussels regional MP and Senator MR visited the areas of Syria controlled by the Bashar al-Assad regime from 20 to 22 March. The visit consisted of a meeting with the Syrian President – nothing less! - a visit to Russian military installations (the Hmeimim base) and a passage to Aleppo. According to the first Russian television channel, "The task of the parliamentary delegation was to understand and develop a goal: what Europe can do for peace in the Arab Republic". It looks like a 1984 passage from Orwell. Political instrumentalisation is therefore obvious. It is not currently possible in Syria to go and come to the part controlled by the Assad regime without a visa. They are therefore granted only to journalists and politicians who agree with the ideas put forward by the regime or who do not know enough about them to raise the points at issue. Visits are naturally highly supervised by political agents of the regime. From there, Deputy Prime Minister, come my questions. Your party co-religionist, in a video released on 24 March, explains his trip by the need to realize the situation and calls for solidarity in favour of the inhabitants of Aleppo, deprived of everything. On this point, I agree. Access to Aleppo is very difficult and only Russians can reach this city. If Alain Destexhe, since this is him, had been a little informed, especially with you and your extremely well-informed services, as well as with his former MSF employer, he would have known that it was the Syrians who blocked access to Aleppo. Do you defend with the Russians the access of NGOs to this city-martyr within the appropriate bodies? I am thinking in particular of the United Nations. This mission to Syria is obviously aimed at influencing the attitude of the EU and its members. During the visit, a Russian official said: "Today our colleagues saw what is happening in Syria. And, of course, this will have a positive feedback on the solutions within these circles allowing, in the near future, the revision of these discriminatory sanctions." We're going back. Does Belgium still defend the sanctions under way against the regime of Bashar al-Assad and Russia? Finally, with the exception of Alain Destexhe, the delegation was made up of very problematic personalities. Adam Delimkhanov is suspected of violence and assassinations of Chechen opponents. Vladimir Abdualiyevich Vasilyev, vice-president of the Duma, is prohibited from visa, while his assets have been frozen by the Council of the European Union for his involvement in the annexation of Crimea. Finally, Leonid Eduardovich Slutski, Member of Parliament for the Duma, is banned from visa in Europe for the same reasons. It should be noted, moreover, that the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe has itself decided to suspend Russia's right to vote within it for all these reasons. Mr Minister, does Belgium always support the sanctions adopted by both the Council of Europe and the European Commission on this issue?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic647x.u12	Mr Hellings, Belgium has always advocated and will continue to advocate for the free access of humanitarian aid and humanitarian organisations not only to the besieged territories, but also to all Syrians in need, no matter who controls the territory. I have personally engaged on many occasions on this subject in all appropriate forums, including the Human Rights Council, in European debates and in all my bilateral contacts on the conflict. Unfortunately, the Syrian crisis is the scene of repeated violations of this principle and is the subject of political and military instrumentalization of humanitarian action, in particular by the Syrian regime. On several occasions, we have tried to pave the way for free access to hospitals or medical facilities without real success. We have worked with the International Red Cross on several occasions in this area, trying to bring together more than 50 countries that joined us in this endeavour. You then referred to the visit of several parliamentarians. Mr Destexhe participated strictly in his personal capacity after I explicitly drew his attention to the risks of political instrumentalisation by the Syrian regime and the Russian authorities, risks that such a visit obviously involved. It does not in any way reflect any change in the position of the Belgian Government with regard to Syrian or Russian issues. As you know, and I maintain this line, parliamentarians can always ask me for an opinion on the visits they want to make. For the rest, far from me the idea of banning anything. Each parliamentarian is, of course, free to choose his actions in accordance with the separation of powers. I can confirm that our country continues to give its full support to the European Union's restrictive measures against the Syrian regime and Russia, in particular by avoiding official contacts with those who are subject to sanctions. As far as the Council of Europe is concerned, it should be made clear that the suspension of the right to vote of the Russian delegation to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe is a parliamentary initiative and not of the Executive, contrary to the sanctions adopted at European Union level. The Belgian Government has therefore not been required to formally approve this decision, although it fully shares its objectives. I am convinced that the representatives of the Belgian Parliament in this Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe have continued to speak on this subject in recent days. I also found that a number of Russian parliamentarians had actually instrumentalised the visit, as I had announced before the visit took place.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic647x.u13	Thank you, Minister, for your answers. I'm sorry. You are indeed irreproachable from the point of view of the attitude of Belgium, which you defend on behalf of your country, towards the regime of Bashar al-Assad. It's happy. I am the first to recognize this position that is the best to have. Mr. Destexhe does not help you maintain this position. It is obvious, as we know, that the title of senator is perceived at the international level as symbolically important.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic647x.u14	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic647x.u15	Yes, especially the people of your camp! That is precisely what is problematic is that Mr Destexhe is wearing the MR label, in any case until recently, to my knowledge. Mr. Destexhe is definitely always a bad blow and he is a specialist in dictatorships. Let's remember, about 20 years ago, he went to North Korea. Don't let him go to Pyongyang! This is not the time to go, unless you want to get rid of it, which I would also understand perfectly. Finally, refuse him asylum in Uccle since he was expelled from Ixelles. It's probably the only local MR group he hasn't done in the last 20 years. Anyway, good luck!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic647x.u16	My fellow Members, Questions Nos 17596 and 17601 by Mrs Jadin have been converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic647x.u17	Madam President, Minister, your colleague Deputy Prime Minister Alexander De Croo called on the Walloon government to declare the arms embargo on Saudi Arabia. He even called for his wishes at the end of any economic relationship with that country. This position is much more pronounced than that usually defended by Belgium, and is the result of the merciless war that the Wahhabi state is leading in Yemen. Schools, airports, hospitals, infrastructure, water supplies, electricity, are systematically destroyed by the Saudi army by aerial bombardments that decimate without any ill restraint, women, old people, children, in a cynicism coupled with guilty indifference, alas, on the part of the international community. It is as if the Yemenis were not part of humanity. Today, the situation is so dramatic that the population, deprived of everything, especially because of the blockade imposed on merchant ports, is in a situation of famine, which is why the government has decided to bring an additional euro to each euro paid to consortium 12-12 to Yemen and the Horn of Africa. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, how did Belgium address Saudi Arabia with regard to the war in Yemen? How, in the light of the dramatic famine of the Yemeni population, does it intend to act vis-à-vis Saudi Arabia? In the framework of the concertation committee, you intend to ask the federated entities of the north and south that trade arms with Riyadh to define a common position in line with Mr. From Croo? Count yourself, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, at the request of Mr. From Croo to cease all arms sales to Saudi Arabia, to bring before the Council of European Ministers the establishment of a humanitarian embargo and the proposal to cease all trade with Saudi Arabia until the situation in Yemen has changed, the bombing of civilians and civilian infrastructure has continued, and the peace talks have not been firmly engaged? Would a common European position banning the sale of arms and stopping economic relations with Saudi Arabia require de facto cessation of the supply of arms by any European region or country? A resolution to this effect by the European Parliament in 2016 has, according to Mr Magnette, remained a dead letter by the decision of Mrs Mogherini, responsible for European diplomacy. They are, however, of the same party. Is this blocking on the part of Mrs Mogherini due to the close relations between some European countries and the Gulf monarchy? Is this strong diplomatic commitment likely to materialize, particularly with regard to economic relations?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic647x.u18	Mevrouw de voorzitster, Mr Flahaux, the humanitarian crisis in Yemen is of course a cause for concern. Belgium has been contributing international humanitarian funds to Yemen for several years. This commitment has also recently been reiterated and strengthened, as you mentioned, by my colleague in charge of development cooperation. In Yemen, Saudi Arabia plays a leading role in the military coalition aimed at re-establishing the authority of Yemeni President Mansour Hadi, recognized by the international community. In our contacts with the authorities and the Government of Saudi Arabia, Belgium recalls that we favour a negotiated political solution to this conflict. We support the efforts of the United Nations Special Envoy for Yemen, Ismail Ould Sheikh Ahmed. It is imperative that the fighting cease in order to enable the country and its people to recover from the consequences of the first clashes and prevent a resumption of them. We will continue to use our contacts to call for compliance by all parties to the conflict with international humanitarian law and all existing conventions. As regards the economic relationship with Saudi Arabia, and in particular arms exports, it should be stressed that the Regions are, as you have pointed out, competent in this area. In fact, the Regions directly grant arms export and transit licences, in accordance with the European framework, including Common Position 2008/944/CFSP, which includes compliance with UN arms embargoes and restrictive measures taken by the European Union and which sets up a system for assessing export licence applications based on a set of defined criteria. Pursuant to the Cooperation Agreement of 17 July 2007, the SPF Foreign Affairs organises information meetings in order to provide the regional authorities with information relevant to their position. This was particularly the case for the Arabian Peninsula on March 31. Finally, on the possibility of a European arms embargo against Saudi Arabia, given the division of powers in Belgium, our position depends, among other factors, on consultation with the Regions. If they ask Belgium to plead within the European bodies for a European embargo, we will do so. And if the European Union were to introduce an embargo, Belgium would obviously be obliged to respect any decision taken by the Member States of the European Union. This issue was addressed in the coordination organized by the European Directorate of the Department. Of course, at the request of the regions, we are fully prepared to move forward in this direction, as we have commented on the human rights situation, as we are often asked, in Saudi Arabia, but the dire situation of the Yemeni population at present in the context of the conflict. I would like to add that, as in other bilateral relations, this should not, of course, prevent us from being in direct bilateral contact with Saudi Arabia or in direct contact through international forums, such as the United Nations, or meetings between the European Union and the Gulf Cooperation Council, in an attempt to influence the position of the Gulf countries and Saudi Arabia in particular. I remain a supporter of multilateralism and of the need to develop debates, including on difficult issues such as these live with countries whose directions we do not necessarily share. As far as the delivery of weapons is concerned, I want to be very clear. Jurisdiction belongs to the Regions. We have made this issue clear. If the Regions really want to go in this direction to defend an embargo at European level, we will argue in this direction in all European fora.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic647x.u19	Minister, thank you. What is quite interesting in what you have said is that I believe that I have heard the Minister-President of the Walloon Region point out that a boycott of arms at the level of the Walloon Region alone could not be implemented but that it had to be carried out at European level. I guess he'll be consistent. It seems to me that, for the time being, you have not received a genuine request from the Regions to plead for a European boycott. I imagine that this will happen soon if his words are to be consistent with his actions. Depending on this, you will be able to continue your action, or vice versa.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic647x.u20	Madam President, Minister, experts from the Belgian B-FAST team took part, from 22 to 26 March, in the West Indies, in the European exercise EU Richter. In any case, that is what we were able to learn in a press release from the Internal FPS. This news allows me to remind you that in December 2016, you promised us, after many months of waiting, the results of the audit ordered on B-FAST for April 2017. Since we are here, Minister, I would therefore like to ask you when you intend, through official channels, to communicate to us the conclusions of this audit and when we can consider having a debate here on this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic647x.u21	Mr Minister, my question is in line with Mrs Grovonius' question. On 10 March 2017, the Council of Ministers decided to conduct a financial audit of B-FAST. Indeed, a few deadlines have already been mentioned, of which the most recent was May 2nd 2017. Like Mrs Grovonius, I note that we are approaching that date. Why was it not until 10 March 2017 that the audit was granted? How exactly will the audit go? What planning will be used? When can we expect the result? Which thesis will be examined by the auditors? What argument is there for that?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic647x.u22	Ladies and gentlemen, the B-FAST Coordination Council was instructed to determine both the scope and the performer of the audit. Since the Coordination Council is a collegial body in which the representatives of all the ministers concerned are present, an obligatory prior debate was necessary in order to reach a consensus, both in terms of scope and in terms of implementing. The exporter's designation was not easy. First of all, the Court of Auditors couldn't be requested by the federal government. We tried, but this was refused, only Parliament can do so. Secondly, the Federal Internal Audit Service and the Treasury Inspection Corps had additional questions about the scope of the audit. There were questions of substance and also about the time frame of the audit, taking into account the possibilities and availability of the services concerned, namely: the Federal Internal Audit Service and the Treasury Inspectorate. It was only after these points were further clarified that the government was able to give its consent to the start of the audit on 10 March. The research theses used are the classical audit techniques, specific to the Treasury Inspectorate and the Federal Internal Audit Service. As you both recalled, on March 10, 2017, the first phase of the audit began. The Finance Inspectorate will prepare an inventory of the costs incurred by each of the departments concerned in the context of B-FAST. The report containing the conclusions of the first phase of the audit is foreseen, as announced, by the end of April 2017, deadline communicated by the auditor. I can already tell you that if this deadline is respected – but it is in the hands of the Finance Inspectorate – I will communicate to Parliament as well as to the government the results of this first phase of the audit. Based on this inventory and this first phase, it was decided to implement a second phase in which the Federal Internal Audit Service, after the Finance Inspectorate, will conduct a more in-depth analysis of the data. This detailed work will obviously take longer than the first phase of the audit for reasons I have already mentioned. The results of this second phase are expected by the end of 2017. To be very clear: upon receipt of the results of the first phase, they will be communicated to the government, as well as to Parliament. The same will apply at the end of the second phase, scheduled for the end of the year. But I would like to remind you that today, B-FAST is, of course, working. It is not because we conduct an audit that we are not in a position to respond to requests. I would also point out that a request from a country affected by a natural disaster, for example, or by other events, is needed for us to examine the conditions under which B-FAST can intervene. Very concrete, B-FAST continues to work as usual, but the audit will continue. I can confirm that, at the end of April, an initial report on the basis of the elements of the Treasury Inspectorate will be delivered to the partners, the various departments, the government and also Parliament. By the end of 2017, there will be a report from the second phase.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic647x.u23	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. We look forward to the first report at the end of April. We are pleased that progress is being made on this dossier.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic647x.u24	Questions Nos. 17686 and 17687 by Mr. Hedebouw are transformed into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic647x.u25	Minister, as we know, Operation Desert Falcon (ODF) is scheduled for July 1. You recently denied any suspension of Belgian aviation operations over Syria and Iraq, while announcing changes in the rules of intervention for Belgian pilots engaged in the fight against Daesh. I recall that the sixth point of the resolution adopted by the House calls on the Government "to continue to guarantee the involvement of the House and to consult again if new circumstances are to change the duration and nature of the Belgian commitment, as well as the extent of the territory to which this commitment relates". Therefore, Minister, I would like to ask you the following questions. Could you take stock of the Belgian intervention in the fight against Daesh, particularly following the recent American air raid on a Syrian army base in response to an alleged chemical attack? What are these changes you were announcing? How do you explain your statements, when a spokesman for the Ministry of Defence told the Belga Agency earlier that the Belgian operations "had been suspended until further notice"? Finally, can you inform us of the timing of their possible resumption?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic647x.u26	Minister, on 4 April there was an attack with chemical weapons, possibly saringas, in Khan Shaykhun in Syria. There is a good chance that Assad's regime is behind the attack, despite the fact that the regime would have had all its chemical weapons destroyed in 2013 and 2014. On April 6, the American Air Force bombed the Shayrat base of the Syrian army ais retaliation for the chemical attack. The attack was a surprise, a turnaround in President Trump's vision of Syria, but it also upset the Russians. They unilaterally suspended the US-Russia conflict agreement, so that air operations by both parties are no longer mutually announced. Following the visit of the US Secretary of State to Moscow, it was stated that the agreement would be respected again. Minister, I have five questions for you. Firstly, what impact did the suspension of the conflict agreement have on the operations of the international coalition? Did the coalition suspend its operations over Syria for a while? Secondly, how is the international coalition involved in this conflict agreement? Thirdly, has Belgium decided at some point itself and unilaterally not to operate over Syria anymore? Fourthly, how do you explain that on 10 April you stated that there is no suspension of air operations, whereas your colleague Mr Vandeput said earlier that this was the case? Finally, what is the state of play with regard to diplomatic cooperation with Russia on the conflict in Syria?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic647x.u27	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, with regard to your question on the conflict agreement and the suspension of operations over Syria, I should like to refer you to the Minister of Defence and to the answers he gave to Parliament on 19 March. As I pointed out in the past and as my colleague in the defence sector has said, there has been no political consultation on a suspension of our military actions. I had the opportunity, like the Minister of Defence, to point out that the consequences of the Russian decision had indeed been taken by the military command of the coalition and that some operations had not been carried out over Syria during that period. But no decision has suspended our activities. It is a purely military choice of the coalition, but one can understand. When there is no longer an exchange of information on the overview of particular regions, the methods of intervention change. Without going any further, I confirm that no decision of the Belgian Government envisaged any suspension of activity. As I have announced and as the Minister of Defence has confirmed, there are simply adjustments to the coalition's terms of intervention. I would remind you that at the time we told Parliament that the Belgian military would intervene on the basis of requests made by the coalition leaders and not on their own initiative. With regard to the diplomatic state of affairs to find a political solution to the conflict in Syria, I can assure you that Belgium remains fully committed to supporting the political process led by the UN Envoy for Syria, Staffan de Mistura. Belgium also encourages the EU High Representative, Federica Mogherini, to continue its efforts to engage in dialogue with all parties involved, including Russia, in order to promote the political process and discuss a democratic future for Syria. In the Foreign Affairs Council at the beginning of this month, together with my EU colleagues, I adopted a specific strategy for the conflict in Syria. A political process and the future of Syria were also discussed at the recent EU conference in Brussels on the humanitarian situation in Syria. In addition, I think it is important not only for the United States to engage in military engagement in Syria, but also for the country to use its political weight to push the political process in the right direction. This also involves, of course, close consultation between the US and Russian governments. I was quite pleased to see that, after several of my pleas to the Foreign Affairs Council, the High Representative of the European Union was able to visit Moscow and conduct bilateral contacts between the European Union and Russia. It is up to us to ensure that the European Union plays a more active diplomatic role in the search for a political solution in Syria. However, I recognize that we are still far from this political solution, which is the only real solution. The military solution will not be decisive. We must fight against terrorist groups, we must eradicate these groups on the ground; however, the only solution will be a political solution, as we have already repeated.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic647x.u28	Minister, thank you for that clarification.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic647x.u29	Minister, was it a misunderstanding or was what you and Minister Vandeput said wrongly, that is a little belgo-belge, that is not the most important thing. It is a pity, however, that you are aware of the answers given by Minister Vandeput to Parliament, as I would have liked to hear from you in order to be able to compare the answers. However, coordination within the government is still good in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic647x.u30	There is nevertheless a difference between a comment from a possible spokesperson of Defence to Belga and an official statement from the Minister of Defence. I've seen all the statements made by my colleague. We were exactly on the same line, no longer, not less, but it is always possible that press releases from Belga differ from those statements. I hope I'm not responsible for all of Belga's press releases.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic647x.u31	There seemed to be some interference on the line at some point, but, as I said, that's not the most important thing either. It's cleared up right now. The question dates back a long time ago. The most important thing, of course, is the diplomatic cooperation and the progress we can make. It was a strange military action by Donald Trump. His rocket attack has allowed him to buy a lot of diplomatic influence on the premises, but I have the impression that he is not doing anything with it and that the momentum has already passed a bit. So the most important thing remains to isolate Assad, to separate the Russians from him. I hope that you, together with the European Union and the UN, will take advantage of all the opportunities that exist. We asked the committee to be able to discuss the new EU strategy on Syria in your presence, Minister. It wouldn't be bad to look at this new strategy in detail. The political aspect is indeed extremely important in this regard.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic647x.u32	Madam President, Minister, this is unfortunately not the first time that my group has asked you about LGBT rights and the repression they are experiencing in certain parts of the world, particularly in Russia. The subject was discussed yesterday in committee. I welcome the unanimity on the text tabled by my group and thank all the groups for that. In Chechnya, secret prisons inspired by concentration camps would be used to torture and kill Russian homosexuals. The information was revealed by the Russian opposition newspaper Novaya Gazeta and was subsequently confirmed by several NGOs. It is reported that a wave of repression against homosexuals would have started at the end of March. "Secret prisons" in which we torture and kill exist. Imprisoned victims would be forced to surrender the identity of other homosexuals, in a country where it is known that displaying their sexual orientation is often tantamount to being sentenced to death. This information, if confirmed, deserves the strongest possible condemnation and above all, as you rightly stated, that an independent international investigation is carried out and that the perpetrators are identified and prosecuted. In the face of this information, what is the official reaction of Belgian diplomacy but also of European diplomacy? What steps do you intend to take in this context at the diplomatic level to shed light on this information and to urge the authorities to stop these atrocities? Finally, in June 2016, our Assembly adopted a motion for a resolution on the decriminalization of homosexuality in the world. What follow-up did you give him?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic647x.u33	Minister, according to a report by Human Rights Watch, a brutal campaign against homosexual men is taking place in Chechnya. Authorities are actively tracking down homosexuals and torturing the prisoners. That is, of course, very serious. Discrimination or persecution on the grounds of sexual orientation is never acceptable. Our group expects a strong attitude from the European Union and from the Belgian State towards Chechnya and Russia, diplomatically if possible, but considering sanctions if necessary. They are like items, like the double taxation agreement with Russia that we have just discussed, which we should not go further if such matters are going on. Hence our group's vote against just now. I have three questions on this, Minister. What measures are being taken by the EU against this kind of policy? Will Belgium itself take diplomatic action? Have Russia and/or the authorities in Chechnya responded yet?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic647x.u34	Madam President, we were able to have a number of elements on the occasion of the resolution that was debated yesterday. We have already clearly positioned ourselves. You did, too, minister. Nevertheless, I had the opportunity to raise a question, when I learned that during the spring holidays. For me, of course, the most important thing is to know, minister, without developing – what my excellent colleagues have already done – whether you have any evidence to confirm the truthfulness of the information conveyed and, above all, whether you have more convincing information. It also seems to me very important, like other measures that we have taken, to arrive at a common position at European Union level, certainly on behalf of the protection of human rights dear to us. These are some of the elements on which I would have liked to have your feelings.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic647x.u35	Mr Van Peteghem is still voting in another committee. We'll see if he gets back in time.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic647x.u36	Madam President, Minister, first of all I can only abound in the sense of what my colleagues have just said. I would also like to thank Mrs Grovonius and Messrs. Crusnière and Blanchart for the introduction of the motion for a resolution which we have co-signed. We had a very interesting debate which led to unanimous agreement by the committee yesterday morning on this matter. I think that this should be stressed especially since it is not common practice. With regard to your statements of 12 April, Minister, and we thank you, saying that the first thing to do was to carry out an investigation in order to verify the situation on the ground, it has been known for some time that discrimination takes place throughout Russia, particularly in Chechnya, against sexual minorities. It is obvious that we need more information on the subject. You asked your embassy to intervene with the Russian authorities and also through the Council of Europe. I know that the Council of Europe has spoken today or yesterday on this matter. What means of pressure do we have with the Russian authorities, knowing that Mr Putin is difficult to influence or control? Have you received more information from the Russian authorities? According to your own information, you considered that there would be no homosexuals in Chechnya, which makes me laugh a bit. Has the Russian government taken any steps to protect the physical integrity of homosexuals (which so-called do not exist) in the face of the persecution to which they would be subjected?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic647x.u37	Colleagues, my services and I have learned of the facts reported by Novaya Gazeta as well as by national and international NGOs. Neither Belgium nor its European partners have offices in Chechnya, which makes the verification of information more difficult. I can confirm that, since the publication of this information, we have contacted a number of representatives of organisations in order to better be able to gauge the veracity of the information. While it remains difficult to verify the true extent and detail of the facts, it seems clear, however, that acts of discrimination, even persecution, suspected or proven, against homosexual men have taken place, and that these are not isolated acts. The reaction of the Chechen authorities is in itself sufficient to prove that the power in place is doing absolutely nothing to stem possible violence against people from the LGBTI community, on the contrary. You have reminded him, Mr Flahaux: when one hears the highest responsible person saying that there is no persecution of homosexuals, because there are no homosexuals in Chechnya, that leaves at least a dream. In my press release of 11 April 2017, as in my further statements since then, I have once again underlined our position on the universality and indivisibleity of human rights. I have also made it clear that our country believes that an investigation is necessary, that perpetrators should be prosecuted and that victims should receive proper compensation. This couldn't be clearer. Mrs Mogherini's spokesperson also made statements along these lines. At the international level, Belgium has also worked for a statement of the Equal Rights Coalition, which will be published this week. When we received information on allegations of human rights violations of LGBTI people in the Chechen Republic, I promptly investigated the Belgian representatives in Strasbourg and Moscow for some steps to be taken in this regard. At the regional level, we want the relevant Council of Europe bodies to address this issue and expect the Russian authorities to honour their international human rights commitments. In view of this, we have supported a European approach to this issue in Moscow. We have not hesitated to commit ourselves to the issue at bilateral level. At my instruction, our Moscow embassy asked for an appointment with the Russian Commissioner for Human Rights to discuss the file with her so that we could get a better idea of what Moscow is now considering doing, to check the facts, to ensure that human rights violations cease and that measures are taken to avoid such violations in the future. Of course, we will not fail to underline the importance of including any victims and ensuring that they also have access to legal recovery. We believe that initiatives and follow-up on the ground are more likely to succeed than a démarche here in Brussels. As regards the reactions to these steps in the Human Rights Council, this subject has already been placed on the agenda of the Committee of Ministers, and it will be repeated if necessary. As you know, the Commissioner for Human Rights operates independently. The request that we have submitted to him has no binding force. However, we are reassured about Mr Muižnieks' interest in the issue of human rights and LGBTI people and are confident that he will take the necessary steps to deepen the issue with the Russian authorities. With regard to the latter, their initial reaction to international approaches was rather evasive, but it was to be hoped that international attention would have tangible effects. The fight against discrimination in general and in favour of respect for human rights and LGBTI people in particular is one of the priorities of Belgian foreign policy in terms of human rights. Our country is very active in this area, both in multilateral and regional forums and bilaterally. I can confirm that we regard the decriminalisation of homosexuality as a priority, as evidenced by the fact that Belgium has actively participated in the development of the European guidelines on the issue of human rights and LGBTI people adopted in 2013 and where this aspect is at the forefront. I would also like to recall that on 17 May, Belgium will host the IDAHOT Forum 2017, which will bring together nearly 200 political and expert figures on this subject. I cannot personally be present at this event, which, I would remind you, is organised by the Secretary of State for Equal Opportunities – in close cooperation with the Communities and Regions – since I will be in Nicosia for the Council of Europe's annual ministerial meeting – where I will certainly address this issue. So we will continue our various approaches, whether bilaterally or in collaboration with other actors, to try to advance the fight against this type of discrimination, of which, I repeat, we do not know the exact extent, even though we are sure that serious discrimination has been and is probably still being committed today.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic647x.u38	I am a little sad that I was not here yesterday to discuss this important issue. As I said last week in plenary, I would also plead in favour of the motion for a resolution put forward by Mrs Jadin on Turkey, which was also adopted unanimously two weeks ago. There is a common point and a long-standing habit that persists in the countries that have undergone the communist regime: they deny the existence, always, of what bothers them. When AIDS was discovered, it did not exist in them and it lasted until recently. Clearly, homosexuality bothers them and therefore does not exist among the communists. We know that Chechnya is on its way to re-traditionalization. What may be surprising is that the victims of these repressions dared to testify, in the context of fear and fear in Chechnya, and that the local gazette was able to make a report of it while this taboo is so locked on this issue. That seems unimaginable to me. We are waiting, Minister, for you to have more information on this situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic647x.u39	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I would remind you once again of the resolution which was unanimously adopted here and which was co-tabled by our group on the initiative of colleagues from the PS, for which we thank them. We hope that you will continue to take the questions that Parliament is asking to heart.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic647x.u40	Minister, I know that this was the minister's policy even before the resolution on the decriminalization of homosexuality around the world was voted on a few months ago. I know you've already given orders to our diplomats so that the Belgian ambassador can be involved in the case of gay prides. I can only thank you and congratulate you. I believe that we must be intractable whenever there is a similar situation in the world. This is currently the case in Nigeria. I imagine that the Belgian Government is also attentive to this.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic647x.u41	Question No 54, by Mr De Pasquale 17760 by Mr Maingain and No. Mrs Pehliv's 17832 were postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic647x.u42	Deputy Prime Minister, on 8 April, you announced that you had "taken" the appointment of Bruno Tshibala as Prime Minister of the Democratic Republic of the Congo. That's the only thing you could do. You have rightly pointed out, as the European Union itself, that this designation "deviates from the letter and spirit of the Agreement of the Saint-Sylvestre" which, I would remind you, provided for the appointment of a Prime Minister proposed by the Rassemblement, that coordination of almost all Congolese opposition parties. As a result, the Congolese government decided to suspend the ongoing military cooperation with the Belgian Defense, by sending a letter to the Belgian Defense Attaché located in our embassy in Kinshasa. Mr Deputy Prime Minister, how do you assess the security situation in general in the Congo and that of the Belgians currently present on Congolese soil in particular, following this particularly disturbing mood movement and, I say from the opposition benches, unjustified? Secondly, does the possible end of Belgian military cooperation with the Congo entail any difficulties in strengthening the military protection of our various diplomatic posts in the Congo? Finally, what are the various Belgian and European diplomatic initiatives envisaged by your department to assist in the full and rapid implementation of the Saint-Sylvestre Agreement so severely torn up at the end of last year? I would point out that this agreement is an intra-Congolese agreement. Belgium has not interfered in this democratic agreement which the Congolese themselves must implement. Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic647x.u43	Mr Minister, on my first question about the cessation of military cooperation with Congo, I have already received a partial reply from Minister Vandeput in the Committee on Defence. As outlined by my colleague, the reason for this was the appointment of the Congolese Prime Minister Tshibala. Our government has rightly reacted critically to this because it does not fit in with the Old Year Agreement. Have you received any comments on the cessation of military cooperation with Congo? The Congolese Foreign Minister threatened to declare the EU Ambassador in Kinshasa, Bart Ouvry, persona non grata. Have these threats been made to our ambassador? How do you see the diplomatic consequences of the cessation of military cooperation with Congo? My second question concerns the situation in Kasaï, where mass graves were again discovered. The situation is highly disturbing. The UN High Commissioner for Human Rights has already mentioned many credible claims of human rights violations in the region. This goes hand in hand with a deterioration in the security situation and the targeting of civilians by military forces, solely on the basis of their so-called affiliation with local militias. After heavy fighting between rebels and Congolese forces, 17 mass graves were discovered. As a result, 40 mass graves have been discovered in this region since August last year. According to information provided by the UN, 74 people were killed in a few days, including 30 children, after violent fighting between Congolese soldiers and members of the Kamwina Nsapu militia. As Belgium is very concerned about the deteriorating situation in Kasaï, but also elsewhere in the country, you had already stated that measures had to be taken to protect the population. What is the state of play on the independent international investigation of war crimes in the DRC? Will the authorities cooperate in this? You had previously asked the Belgian embassy in Kinshasa to raise this matter with the Minister of Human Rights. What was the result of that? You also asked for the situation in the DRC to be addressed by the Foreign Affairs Council of the European Union. Will it give a clear and joint response? Finally, you stressed the importance of discussions in the Security Council on the new mandate of the MONUSCO peacekeeping force (Mission de l'Organisation des Nations Unions pour la stabilisation en République démocratique du Congo). This mandate should ensure better protection of citizens and better guidance in the electoral process in 2017, if this is to take place. How will Belgium continue to monitor the exercise of that mandate in this unstable security context?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic647x.u44	Madam President, Minister, on 7 April President Kabila appointed Mr Bruno Tshibala as the new Prime Minister. The New Year's Agreement for a political transition in Congo provides for the opposition, Le Rassemblement, to deliver the Prime Minister until the elections. However, Tshibala was recently removed from L'Union pour la Démocratie et le Progrès Social (UDPS) by Etienne Tshisekedi and is not strictly part of Le Rassemblement either. You took note of the appointment of Tshibala, but you rightly criticised the course of events. That appointment does not seem to be a way out of the political impasse. The comments you made were certainly not appreciated by your Congolese colleague. Firstly, how do you estimate the political situation in Congo at the moment? How long does Congolese politics need to get out of this impasse? What will you do if Kabila continues to violate the Old Year Agreement? Secondly, have you been in contact with your Congolese colleague? What do you expect for bilateral relations between our two countries? Do you expect additional sanctions? Thirdly, what is your assessment of the security situation in Congo? Fourthly, on 11 April 2017, the Congolese authorities stated that they would cease military cooperation with Belgium. The Congolese Government took that step after the appointment of Prime Minister Tshibala was criticised by our country. How do you assess the cessation of military cooperation?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic647x.u45	Madam President, Minister, it has already been sufficiently outlined that the designation of Tshibala is a problem facing the international community. It is clear that since the glitter of 2016 around the Constitution Kabila, a new glitter has been organising around the Sylvester Agreement and its non-compliance. Thus, first, he tries to break up the opposition by pointing out someone from the opposition who had previously been engaged in Le Rassemblement. In this way he also tries to attract a number of people. Secondly, he is trying to break up the international community by treating, on the one hand, the ambassador of the European Union who criticised him as persona non grata and, on the other hand, unilaterally abandoning the military cooperation agreement with Congo. In any case, it is also a danger at diplomatic level. It is therefore important that the international community speaks with one voice about Congo. It has also done so with the Security Council and the extension of the mandate of the MONUSCO, with a clear commitment to the Secretary-General in Article 53. Every 45 days he has to report on the elections in Congo. My questions are as follows. First of all, what about after Tshibala's designation of the Sylvester chord? Is the international community still holding on to the agreement? That seems to be the case. What does this mean with regard to the Government of Kabila? Will we recognise the Prime Minister and continue to engage in dialogue with the Government of Kabila? Secondly, what does that mean for individual sanctions? The European Union's conclusions of 6 March clearly stated that the High Representative had to give up a list of names in order to re-establish individual sanctions at EU level. How's that list coming? When will it be released? I still think that this will remain the stick behind the door to ensure compliance with the Sylvester agreement. What do you think of the new mandates of the MONUSCO and of Article 53, which gives the Secretary-General a clear mandate to report on the electoral process and the Sylvester agreement within 45 days? Thirdly, the security situation is still worrying. The reason why Belgium intervenes in Congo is still the worrying situation in terms of democracy and human rights. The film Beni Files showed that innocent civilians have been slaughtered since 2014. We have also given it in the Kasaï, to which Mr Luyckx referred, where 40 mass graves have already been found and two UN experts have been killed. The situation is alarming. Mr Minister, I have the following questions. What is the situation in Congo? What conclusions do you draw from this? What about the independent international research in the Kasaï ordered by the international community? Apparently that is not yet advanced and only some data has been collected. Will you continue to argue for the independent investigation of Beni and the Kasaï? The MONUSCO was clearly lacking in power in Eastern Congo. How do you estimate the new mandate of the MONUSCO to follow the security situation? How do you estimate the security situation for the diplomatic and NGO personnel after the murder of the UN experts?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic647x.u46	Madam President, Minister, we must once again talk about the situation in the DRC, which is still so worrying and which continues to worsen. A few days after the end of the mediation undertaken by the bishops (CENCO), which unfortunately ended on a record of failure, President Kabila appointed Mr Tshibala Prime Minister. This appointment was criticized by opposition parties and by many actors in the international community such as the European Union, France and Belgium. Indeed, you also pointed out that this appointment did not respect the spirit of the Saint-Sylvestre Agreement, and that this appointment was too controversial. Following the Prime Minister's assumption of office, the opposition called for his discontent on 10 April. However, few protesters dared to leave their homes after the police discouraged any mobilization. Regrettably, further arbitrary arrests have still been observed. Minister, can you first give us the latest information you have on the political and security situation in the DRC? Did you contact your European and international counterparts after Mr Tshibala was appointed Prime Minister? The security situation in Kasai, already mentioned by my colleagues, also seems to be very worrying, with the killing of two UN experts and the discovery of pits. What do you intend to do about this situation?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic647x.u47	Minister, that is a lot of questions for you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic647x.u48	Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I thank you for allowing me to speak once again on the situation in the Democratic Republic of the Congo. I can say that I broadly share your concerns about political developments, human rights, the socio-economic situation and the security situation. The Embassy, my services, myself and some of my fellow ministers, particularly those of Cooperation and Defence, are also following this issue very closely in order to prevent the international community from dividing itself on analysis and accompanying remedies. For Belgium, the best possible guarantee of a peaceful transition to credible elections seems to us to lie in the full and fair implementation of the inclusive agreement of 31 December 2016 as enshrined in UN Security Council Resolution No. 2348, based on the real compromises agreed by the various Congolese partners. In my statement of 8 April, I reiterated the need for full and fair implementation of this agreement, therefore within the framework of the specific arrangements as provided for in the agreement, while regretting that they have not yet been able to succeed. Together with the rest of the international community, for example, the European Union, France, the United States and Canada, we have indeed regretted that the appointment of the new Prime Minister, Bruno Tshibala, departs from the letter and spirit of the Saint-Sylvestre Agreement, which provided for the appointment of a Prime Minister proposed by the Gathering. On Friday, 21 April, the National Episcopal Conference of the Congo, CENCO, also deplored that the consultations between the Head of State and the head of the delegation of the Gathering under negotiation, at the end of which the Prime Minister was to be appointed, had not taken place. According to the bishops, the appointment of a Prime Minister constitutes "a breach of the Agreement of the Holy See" and explains the persistence of the crisis. Having said that, the agreement must continue to guide us. We remain vigilant on three points concerning the implementation of the agreement: 1. a power actually shared between the regime and the real opposition; 2. the simultaneous establishment of a National Council for the Follow-up of the Agreement, which will play an effective role in monitoring and arbitration; 3. the full and immediate implementation of the descriptor measures, thus reopening the landscape of political freedoms to the citizens and allowing all eligible Congolese citizens to campaign for elections which should be held again this year. The Congolese Government has indeed formally stated that it intends to suspend military cooperation with our country. We take note of this. My services are in contact with the Defense Department to see how the program can be properly terminated. At first glance, the decision does not seem to have an impact on the existing military protection of our embassy in Kinshasa, but the problem of protecting our Consulate General in Lubumbashi has still not been resolved. The file on the suspension of the military partnership programme will be submitted to the rest of the government in the past. I therefore do not wish to comment at this stage on the possible impact of this decision on our bilateral relations. Our country wishes to keep the diplomatic channels with the DRC authorities as open as possible. I received my colleague in February and our embassy maintains contacts with all the political representatives on the ground. You referred to the threat of measures against the EU ambassador following a communiqué approved by all the postal heads in Kinshasa. Indeed, the EU solidarity must play to the full. I have no information that similar threats would have been made to other postal heads. On 29 March I expressed my indignation at the death of two members of the UN expert group in the province of Central Kasaï, Michael Sharp and Zaida Catalan. They disappeared there together with their Congolese escorts. I have expressed my condolences to their families, friends and colleagues and paid tribute to their struggle for the defence of the values of the United Nations. Our country condemns the recent wave of violence and human rights violations in the Kasaï provinces. An independent international investigation is absolutely necessary and those responsible must be tried. Our country argues for this within the UN and welcomes the fact that on 23 March, during the interactive dialogue at the Human Rights Council in Geneva, the Congolese Minister for Human Rights opened the door to an investigation by MONUSCO, BCNUDH and the African Union. We would like this willingness to be translated into giving access to these organisations in the field. No precise figures are yet available on the number of victims. There are 40 mass graves and hundreds of dead. The situation in the Kasai is very worrying. This violence is excessive and must not be banned. However, we should not forget that the situation in the east, namely in the Kivu provinces and in Tanganyika, is still not improving, due to the lack of implementation of the commitments of the Nairobi agreements of December 2013 and the principles of the Addis Ababa Agreement on peace, security and cooperation in the RDC and the region. I have already argued in the past for an international investigation into the situation in the east, especially with regard to the incidents in Beni, which have recently been documented in the online project Beni Files. As far as the general security situation is concerned, our fellow countrymen do not seem to be running any specific risks at the moment. But the situation is unstable. I refer explicitly to the travel advice that points to the risks involved. I believe that the same reasoning can be followed for all the countries in the world. The embassy and my services regularly follow the general evolution, along with the Defense Department. Although the opposition had announced an important march before 10 April, it did not take place. There was a ville morte. New events cannot be ruled out in the coming weeks. We continue to ask all actors to do everything in their power to avoid violence. MONUSCO will also have to play its role in protecting citizens. The new mandate of the MONUSCO fully subscribes to the implementation of the Old Year Agreement and focuses more on protecting citizens and supporting the elections. Last month I received the Monusco head, Maman Sidikou, to emphasise these two priorities. Our country therefore fully supports the new Security Council Resolution 2348 and wishes that MONUSCO now have the means to implement that mandate. More than ever, the political agreement of 31 December 2016 must be implemented in good faith so that a legitimate government can address the various problems today, but especially after credible and good elections at the end of this year. In the absence of such implementation, our country remains very concerned about the situation. We have ongoing consultations with our international partners in the region: the US, the EU and the UN. Both the EU and the UN have expressed their intentions in recent weeks to consider additional individual sanctions. Our country will continue to argue in favour of maintaining international cohesion around a close monitoring of the situation by the international community, on the basis of the strict and loyal implementation of the agreement. I think it is really important to plead with all our partners to stick to this line of compliance with the agreement of 31 December 2016. But it is clear that we will have the opportunity, at the next meetings of the Foreign Affairs Council of the European Union, to review the assessment of the situation. My wish is, I repeat, that we should keep a common line with our partners on the subject. It is not useful to embark on an exclusively bilateral approach. There are, of course, many initiatives that we can take bilaterally, but we really need to put them in this collective approach with our partners on the international stage. Of course, over time, we will have to discuss our bilateral relations with our partners in the Democratic Republic of the Congo through diplomatic channels. The situation cannot simply remain as it is. But for this, I repeat, we will first conduct consultations with our international partners at the forthcoming meetings, particularly at European level, and then, if necessary, we will turn to the Kinshasa authorities to assess with them our relations and the situation from which they will evolve.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic647x.u49	Madam President, I thank the Deputy Prime Minister for this comprehensive and detailed briefing. We have no differences of opinion on this subject. The Congolese people need two things: democracy and security. Belgium, like all the other countries of the European Union, supports the Congolese in the full and complete implementation, in the spirit and in the letter, of the agreements of the Saint-Sylvestre. It is an intra-Congolese agreement and not interference by Belgium and the European Union on the Congolese political scene. Europeans and Belgians are behind Congolese Democrats in implementing an agreement on democracy. The Congolese need security, especially in the East. The military agreements that Belgium had previously implemented in the Congo were aimed precisely at training and training a Congolese army embryo, capable of ensuring the security that the Congolese need, particularly in the East. I hope that with diplomacy, as well as with a lot of courage and perhaps also a lot of energy, we will be able to maintain this training and training for Congolese people. First of all, I think about them. Thank you anyway and good courage!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic647x.u50	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. It is a good thing that you are also consulting with the Defence Office on exactly how this will work. I also welcome the fact that you are not advocating an exclusive bilateral response, but that you think that we should organise the action in the broadest possible multilateral front. It is clear that Kabila has a sort of divide-and-control policy whereby hope for new elections is becoming more and more fragmented. With the precarious uncertainty that exists there today, this only leads to greater uncertainty and violence. So we need to think about how we can weigh more on the debate, both bilaterally and multilaterally. We certainly need to keep the whole cooperation with Congo under review. This is, of course, becoming a never ending story in which time and time again the trust and the agreements are being violated. We can certainly go one step further to weigh up what is happening in Congo.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic647x.u51	Minister, it is logical that this is the subject of a debate. It is clear that we must continue to have this debate. In this regard, I believe that the conclusion may be that you have the support of majority and opposition across party boundaries. I see two pillars. The first is keeping all diplomatic channels open and the second is sticking to the red lines of the intra-Congolese agreement.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic647x.u52	Minister, I have heard you say a number of things. Firstly, the international community must not let itself be broken up. I do not think we should bilateralise the conflict between Belgium and Congo. Kabila is ultimately seeking to weaken the support of the international community in this way. It's a good thing we're dealing with it multilaterally. Secondly, the preservation of the Sylvester agreement. Until now, only one point of the Sylvester agreement has been implemented, in particular: Kabila remains in place until new elections are held. Everything else is contradicted. The opposition was allowed to appoint a prime minister, but that did not happen. The mesures the décrispation you mention, the confidence-building measures, were not implemented. The Supreme Court for Magistrates had to look at Katumbi, the media authority had to be looked at, the oversight of the agreement, these are all things that don't happen. The only measure that was implemented is that Kabila stays until there are new elections. Otherwise, nothing happens. Anyway, since there is no alternative, we must stick to the Sylvester agreement. However, we must intervene in good time if we see that there are no elections by the end of the year. We must continue to use CENCO as the only credible partner as a mediator. You referred to that too. We must continue to emphasise two things. The stick behind the door with the individual sanctions is sensitive. We must play these individual sanctions multilaterally, but they must certainly be used permanently. You also referred to an international, independent investigation. We must continue to make a strong commitment to this too, because I can see that there is some sort of selective indignation. If a policeman dies in Paris, the entire État major is called upon to pay tribute there. If 39 police officers are decapitated in the Congo, there will be less reaction. Or take the 40 mass graves: there is a kind of normalization around violence in Congo. We must continue to strongly advocate and continue to work for international, independent research. In the absence of justice in Congo, the international community must act to protect its citizens.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic647x.u53	Minister, thank you for your answer and for your clarification. The situation in the Democratic Republic of the Congo is indeed becoming increasingly complex. Unfortunately, it is also due to the ego of each other. For example, I have still not understood why the Rassemblement, in the opposition, did not respond to the President's invitation. I'm not saying this could have changed the deal, but it would have been evidence of a willingness to dialogue, to try and find a solution. I think mistakes are made on both sides. I agree with you that the text of the agreement of 31 December must be the reference. That is what we must strive for. He proposed a Prime Minister of the opposition, but also the establishment of the follow-up committee. The person who should chair this follow-up committee is also a problem, since they assume that he must be the head of the Committee of Wise Men, Pierre Lumbi, who was chosen by provocation. All of this, as we know, is really an ego problem for each other. But, as my colleague has said, we must first think about the Congolese population and not lock ourselves in positions that may be complicated. I have no doubt that you continue to have formal and informal bilateral contacts, as we also have, to push for a solution which, I repeat, must be respect for the agreement of 31 December and the organisation of elections this year, even if, as time passes, the more one can doubt it. We are almost in May, and unfortunately, the government that should be responsible for organising these elections is not yet in place. I think that, in the coming weeks, we will still have the opportunity to discuss this issue again.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic647x.u54	Minister, on 15 February 2017, the European Parliament approved CETA. Due to the resistance of Wallonia and Brussels, the federal government was only given the mandate to approve the CETA Convention in the European Council after an intra-Belgian agreement. I have a number of questions on this subject, Minister. What were the conditions of that intra-Belgian agreement and which of them have already been met? A question for a preliminary ruling would be referred to the European Court of Justice. What is the content and state of play of this? The British would also propose a dispute settlement within the framework of the Brexit within the framework of their future trade agreement with the EU. It seems impossible to integrate less than an arbitration court, as provided for in the CETA Convention, into the Free Trade Agreement. Have exploratory talks been held with the Communities and the Regions on this subject? What signals about their attitude do you detect?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic647x.u55	Mr Van Peteghem, the Belgian Interfederal Agreement for the signing of CETA by our country was concluded in the Consultation Committee on 27 October 2016. On the basis of that agreement, Belgium has adopted a formal declaration on the conditions governing the full competence of the federal State and the sub-entities to sign CETA. That unilateral declaration was subsequently submitted to the EU Council Secretariat for attachment to the EU's formal decision to sign the CETA Convention. The public statement provides, inter alia, that if one of the sub-entities takes the final decision not to ratify CETA, the Federal State should notify the Council of that impossibility within one year. It is about the practical application of a previously adopted declaration by the Council of the European Union in the assumption of a definitive blocking of ratification in a Member State, reminding us of the constitutional specificity of our country. In the document, Belgium also notes that, as decided by the Council, the provisional application of CETA does not apply to all provisions of the Agreement, especially as regards investment protection and dispute resolution. Belgium also announced that the European Court of Justice will be asked for an opinion on the compatibility of the Investment Court System (ICS) and the European Treaties, in particular in the light of opinion 02/15. The Declaration also confirms the existing European rules, in the sense that the federal state or an agricultural entity reserves the right to invoke safeguard clauses in the event of a power imbalance. In this respect, specific thresholds will be set within 12 months of the signature of CETA, so as to clarify what is meant by power imbalance. Finally, Belgium reiterates that CETA cannot affect European legislation on the authorisation, placing on the market, cultivation and labelling of genetically modified organisms and poses a risk for the application of the precautionary principle in the European Union, as defined in the European Treaties. In the light of Declaration No. 37 the Walloon Region, the French Community, the German-speaking Community, the French Community Commission and the Brussels-Capital Region do not intend to ratify CETA until the defined implementing modalities for the ICS for investor-party dispute resolution have been adopted. As early as January 2017, my services completed the preparatory work on the legal framework of the request for an opinion to the European Court of Justice. Since a few weeks we have received all the material contributions from the federated entities. At present, consultations between the federal state and all the federated entities concerned are ongoing on the precise wording of the request for advice. On the basis of an agreement between all the entities concerned, the request will be made on behalf of Belgium. A possible dispute settlement mechanism for the United Kingdom's expected trade agreement with the European Union is currently a prospect. After the recent activation of Article 50, exit negotiations should be initiated before negotiations on the future trade relationship between the European Union and the United Kingdom can begin. We therefore seek to ensure the proper implementation of CETA itself, but also of all decisions taken with the federated entities.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic647x.u56	Thank you, Minister, for the explanation. It is indeed important that we keep following the intra-Belgian agreement so that we can ratify CETA at federal level in the short or medium term.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic647x.u57	Minister, following the annexation of Crimea and the destabilisation of Eastern Ukraine, the European Union imposed sanctions on Russia. These sanctions were linked to the implementation of the Minsk agreements. The sanctions entered into force in March 2014 and are repeatedly extended until 31 July 2017. However, disturbing reports continue to be received from the region. Minister, what is the state of play regarding the implementation of the Minsk agreements? What efforts are being made to this end? Have you already made an assessment of the impact of these sanctions on Russia? How do you see the sanctioning regime evolving? How is the dialogue between the European Union and Russia and between NATO and Russia going? Thank you in advance for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic647x.u58	Mr van Peteghem, the implementation of the Minsk agreements is difficult. The security situation in eastern Ukraine remains problematic, there are regular cease-fire violations and more recently heavy weapons fighting. We deplore the last fatal incident in the separatist controlled area of Pryshyb, 34 kilometres northwest of Luhansk, which has cost the lives of an OSCE observer of American nationality. At the same time, two other observers were slightly injured. The security problems overshadow the other negotiating themes. The political dimension of the Minsk agreements is therefore provisionally established. The preparation of local elections and the granting of a special status to Donbas encounters resistance in the Ukrainian parliament, while Russia continues to provide military support to the separatist regions. Moreover, the uncertainty about the position of the United States has led both camps to adopt a wait-and-see attitude. I believe that the Minsk agreements remain the only realistic option for a lasting solution to the conflict in eastern Ukraine. The negotiations in Normandy format take place regularly at technical and political level and under French-German leadership. Due to the recent battles, the emphasis is obviously mainly on the humanitarian and security aspects, but it is important that all dimensions make parallel progress. It is essential that all parties comply with their commitments on the basis of a roadmap, which has not yet been adopted. Sanctions first of all prove the unity and perseverance of the European Union in the event of a serious violation of the territorial integrity of a neighbouring country and a breach of the principle of the inviolability of borders. The various analyses available to me show that these sanctions do have an impact on the Russian economy, which is also seriously affected by the financial and economic consequences of the drastic fall in energy prices. I hope that considerable progress will be made in the coming months in implementing the Minsk agreements, which will determine the lifting of sanctions. The formal institutional dialogue between the EU and Russia, such as the EU-Russia Summits, has been frozen since the Ukrainian crisis. Nevertheless, contact with Moscow on issues of common interest, such as terrorism, should remain possible. After all, Russia remains an important player in many international dossiers. These contacts take place mainly in a bilateral context. It is therefore essential that Member States deliver as much as possible a unified message to avoid weakening the EU. That is why I have advocated that the High Representative, Federica Mogherini, take this dossier to heart. She travelled to Moscow on 24 April, for the first time since the beginning of her office, to convey a common EU message to the Russian Foreign Minister, Sergei Lavrov. At the same time, NATO policy towards Russia is based on credible confidence and dialogue. Russian interventions in Ukraine have led to the suspension of practical civil and military cooperation between NATO and Moscow, while communication channels have always remained open. Large-scale and often unannounced Russian military exercises, interference in elections and attempts to influence the policies of some partner countries have further contributed to the degradation of confidence. However, dialogue and transparency are necessary in order to avoid further tensions and to reduce risk derivatives, without going back to business as usual. The dialogue will take place within the framework of the NATO-Russia Council, which last met on 30 March. This included the situation in Ukraine. We will continue in the same direction, on all points, but I repeat that, as in many other difficult cases, correct implementation of an agreement is the most important point.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic647x.u59	Thank you, Minister, for your comprehensive reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic647x.u60	Minister, the question is already somewhat out of date, because the referendum has now taken place and the result is known. A referendum on a constitutional change took place in Turkey two weeks ago. The country will evolve into a presidential system where very important powers will be conferred on the President and which will allow Erdogan to stand as a candidate for several legislatures. Meanwhile, the Council of Europe has also decided to put Turkey back under full control. So I'd like to expand my question a little bit. What steps has Belgium taken in the Council of Europe? What exactly does full supervision mean? Do you know of any reaction from Turkey to that decision?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic647x.u61	Mr Van Peteghem, 51,41 percent of the voters voted against the constitutional changes in the referendum on 16 April and 48,59 percent against. The turnout was 85.32 %. With regard to the constitutional changes, the Venice Commission, a Council of Europe body, had already published a report at the end of February warning against the danger that constitutional reform might involve the democratic tradition in Turkey. According to the Venice Commission, the presidential system, which was the subject of the referendum, is likely to evolve into a personal and authoritarian regime. With regard to the campaign and the progress of the referendum on 16 April, the preliminary findings of ODIHR, the OSCE Monitoring Committee, and the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe seem to indicate that the referendum took place under unequal conditions, with both camps not having the same opportunities. The state of emergency introduced after the failed coup attempt of 16 July 2016 has led to violations of fundamental rights, which are, however, crucial for a genuine democratic process. The media coverage during the campaign was dominated by the yes camp and voters were denied access to a variety of views. The last-minute changes in voting procedures also removed an important safeguard mechanism, which was denounced by the opposition. In addition, several opposition parties have expressed suspicions of irregularities and brought an action before the Supreme Electoral Council. Those appeals have so far always been dismissed. It is already clear that the results of the referendum are very close together. This indicates that Turkish public opinion is highly polarised. It is therefore important that the Turkish authorities take this into account and seek the broadest possible national consensus before they implement the constitutional changes. The European Union and the Council of Europe should review the implementation of the constitutional changes in line with the commitments made by Turkey at international level as a candidate country of the European Union and as a member of the Council of Europe. I would remind you that the death penalty is a red line, which must not be exceeded by a state wishing to join the European Union. As far as the accession negotiations are concerned, I also note that they have been de facto suspended. The Member States of the European Union will discuss the situation in Turkey and relations with Turkey in the coming days. It is to be hoped that after the extremely tense relations and unacceptable statements during the campaign, there will be a serene atmosphere once again in the resumption of a constructive dialogue between Turkey and the European Union. It is important to keep the door open for dialogue with Turkey, not only to be able to discuss issues in which the European Union and Turkey have common or complementary interests, such as the fight against terrorism and migration management, but also to express our many concerns. I hereby confirm my comments in plenary last week, following the referendum in Turkey.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic647x.u62	Thank you, Minister, for your explanation. Of course, you answered most of the questions I had put. Thank you for the explanation, which you have already referred to in plenary. Turkey remains deeply divided after the referendum. In view of the steps Turkey will take, we still have to question the possibility of accession. We have also made this very clear in the resolution on this subject, which was adopted in Parliament. I would like to refer to my introduction. I have said that the Council of Europe has put Turkey once again under surveillance. Maybe it is for another question, but can you tell us what steps Belgium has taken and whether Turkey has responded to it?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic647x.u63	Madam President, Minister, I would like to ask you about the multiple arbitrary arrests of members and supporters of the DRM by gendarmes of the Djibouti Research and Documentation Section. Indeed, many arrests have been recorded since the beginning of March 2017. On 23 March, nine of the nineteen members and supporters of the MRD went to the public prosecutor and four of them were placed under arrest warrants. The public prosecutor justified his decision by accusing members of carrying out actions for a dissolved party in 2008. Minister, can you first give us the latest information in your possession about the situation in Djibouti? Do you have any information on the status of the four prisoners? Can you tell us if you have recently had contact with the Djibouti authorities? If so, have you mentioned this problem?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic647x.u64	Madam President, Mr Crusnière, during the month of March 2017, the Djibouti media did indeed report the arrests of several officials of the MRD, the Movement for Democratic Renewal and Development, the president of the LDDH, the Djiboutian human rights wing, and the general secretary and deputy secretary-general of the primary teachers' union. On 23 March 2017, four members of the MRD were placed under arrest after being referred to the prosecutor of the Republic of Djibouti. According to the information available to my services, these four persons are, at present, still incarcerated in Gabode Central Prison. On 12 March, the Article 8 dialogue between the European Union and the Government of Djibouti was held in Djibouti. The Ambassador of Belgium based in Addis Ababa, also accredited for Djibouti's jurisdiction, visited the country to participate in this important dialogue. The development of the internal political situation was one of the main points of the discussion with the Government of Djibouti, which was represented by Mr Mahamoud Ali Youssouf, Minister of Foreign Affairs, and Mr Ilias Moussa Dawaleh, Minister of Economy and Finance. The European ambassadors expressed concern about the exclusion of some electoral lists for the local elections of February 2017 and called for compliance with the framework agreement with the opposition at the end of 2014, which provided for the establishment of an independent and joint national electoral commission. Belgium will of course continue to monitor closely the political situation in Djibouti, including the status of the opposition. The establishment of an independent national electoral commission would be a very important step in the preparations for the upcoming legislative elections in 2018. In addition, the European Union may consider the desirability of sending a team of electoral experts for the 2018 parliamentary elections. As I have told you, it seems that a number of people are still incarcerated. We will be following their situation closely with our European colleagues, although we obviously have no consular action in this area. Political follow-up is, of course, possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic647x.u65	Minister, thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic647x.u66	Debates of the European Parliament 17896 by Mrs Jadin will be dealt with in the Committee on Justice. Questions Nos 17911, 17912, 17931 and 17932 by Mrs Jadin have been converted into written questions. Question No 5, by Mr De Gucht Mr De Vriendt's 17963 was converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic647x.u67	Madam President, Minister, it has been brought to our knowledge that a Sierra Leonean partner of a Belgian NGO would have been refused entry into Belgium on the grounds that the person concerned could not have provided his biometric data. However, Article 13.6 of the Visa Code provides that the registration of biometric data may be carried out "by qualified and duly authorized personnel of an honorary consul referred to in Article 42 or of an external service provider". Minister, does section 13.6 of the Visa Code apply to all countries where we have consular representation? How do you explain that it would appear that the Honorary Consul in Sierra Leone was unable to record the biometric data of the person concerned?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic647x.u68	Madam President, Mrs Grovonius, for the record, Article 13.6 of the Visa Code reads as follows: "The collection of biometric identifiers shall be carried out by members of the qualified and duly authorised staff of the competent authorities, in accordance with Article 4, §§ 1, 2 and 3. Under the supervision of consulates, the collection of biometric identifiers may also be carried out by qualified and duly authorised staff members of an honorary consul referred to in Article 42 or of an external service provider referred to in Article 43". Article 4 § 1 expressly refers to the consulate as defined in Article 2 § 9 of the Visa Code, i.e. a diplomatic mission or consular post of a Member State authorized to issue visas and under the direction of a career consular official, as defined by the Vienna Convention of 24 April 1963 on Consular Relations. The taking of biometric identifiers by qualified and duly authorized personnel of an honorary consul is therefore only a possibility, not an obligation within the meaning of the Visa Code. However, as far as Belgium is concerned, honorary consuls have no competence in visa matters. Therefore, in order to answer your first question, Article 13.6 of the Visa Code applies to all countries where we have consular representation as defined in Article 2, § 9 of the Visa Code. As far as your second question is concerned, Honorary Consuls, wherever they are, do not have the competence to record the biometric data of a visa applicant. The text is of course at your disposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic647x.u69	Mr Minister, some 1,500 Palestinian detainees, according to the Palestinian Authority, started an arm with the Israeli authorities on Monday, 17 April, refusing to feed themselves, in order to demand conditions worthy of detention. Since then, Israel has stated that it will refuse to negotiate with Palestinian prisoners who have begun the hunger strike. Minister, have you had any contact with the Israeli and Palestinian authorities on this matter? If so, what is the content?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic647x.u70	Mrs Grovonius, I have not yet established contact with the Israeli and Palestinian authorities on this subject, since I have not been required to have an interview with either party since the start of this hunger strike a week ago. My services have just held political consultations with the Palestinian Authority. A broad overview of all our relations and the regional context has been carried out, but no mention has been made of this subject by the Palestinian side since these consultations took place a few days before the beginning of these events. Nevertheless, I am well informed of the situation through my services and our diplomatic post on the spot. Together with our partners in the European Union, we will see what attitude should be taken in the coming days and weeks, especially if the situation is to get worse in one way or another. In any case, it is clear that these new developments are symptomatic of a latent crisis and that the total absence of credible negotiations and of a genuine willingness on the part of the parties to engage in dialogue can ultimately only lead to further deterioration of the situation and new tragedies. It is therefore more urgent than ever to break this impasse, by refraining from provocation and by recreating, on both sides, by tangible gestures, the conditions conducive to the creation of a political horizon with a view to finally reaching negotiations leading to a two-State solution – which remains, whatever some may say, the only way to achieve a just and lasting peace between the parties. We will therefore use the next few days to maintain several contacts on this subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic647x.u71	Minister, a report by Global Witness states that Honduras is one of the most dangerous countries for activists, with 123 murders of activists since 2009 and impunity for the perpetrators. What structural causes and problems do you notice regarding the human rights situation in Honduras? Honduras has already taken action in recent years against violence against human rights activists and impunity. Several laws were adopted such as the law on the protection of human rights defenders and the national protection system for human rights defenders, journalists and legal practitioners. The 2016 progress report on trade treaties indicated that a special committee was set up under the auspices of the Organisation of the American States. This committee is also the forum for a human rights dialogue in which the EU holds its demarches. How do you estimate the impact of these measures, in particular as regards the scope of these measures in order to meet international and national standards on the protection of human rights? The United Nations also opened a human rights agency in Honduras at the end of last year. Has there been a positive impact on the human rights situation since the opening of this office? In order to achieve a more targeted approach to human rights situations, the National Business and Human Rights Action Plan could be an important instrument in Belgian foreign policy. What is the state of play of this plan?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic647x.u72	Until recently, Honduras was the country in peacetime with the highest number of violent deaths in the world. However, both in absolute and relative terms, there has been a decreasing trend since 2013, which was confirmed in 2015 with a decrease of 15% in the number of murders compared to 2014. In 2016, 57.9 murders per 100 000 inhabitants were registered. That's about 60. The situation of human rights defenders with indications of intimidation, threats and murder continues to be problematic in Honduras. However, it can also be seen that the situation improved in recent years and that the government that came into power in 2014 is making efforts to make progress. An agency of the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights was opened at the request of the government and, as you yourself have pointed out, several new laws for the protection of human rights activists were adopted. In 2015, Honduras accepted almost all the recommendations made in the framework of the UN universal periodic review. I follow your analysis that the National Business and Human Rights Action Plan can be an important instrument for Belgian foreign policy on human rights. The aim of the NAP is to encourage Belgian companies operating in Belgium and/or abroad and international companies operating in Belgium to respect and promote human rights, both within their own company and within their sphere of influence. We are currently in the final stage of drafting the NAP Business and Human Rights. The human rights situation in Honduras is being monitored by our Panamanian embassy in close cooperation with the EU delegation in Honduras.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic647x.u73	Mr Van Peteghem has no reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic647x.u74	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Stéphane Crusnière had been postponed to 17986.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic647x.u75	Madam President, Minister, Bertha Cáceres was a Honduran activist who stood up for the rights of the indigenous people in relation to project developers and founded the human rights organisation Consejo Cívico de Organisaciones Populares e Idigenas de Honduras. In 2015, she won the Goldman Environmental Prize for her activism around the Aqua Zarca project on the river Gualcarque, a sacred ground for the indigenous Lenca community. After several death threats, Cáceres was murdered on March 2, 2016. Minister, in the case of the murder of Berta Cáceres, an independent international investigation has not yet been launched. Will you insist on this with the Honduran authorities? Was independent international investigation prevented by the Honduran authorities in other homicide cases concerning human rights activists? What is the state of the investigation conducted by the Honduran authorities and the trial of those involved in this case? What protection measures did Berta Cáceres and members of her movement receive? The Grupo Asesor Internacional de Personas Expertas investigates the murder of Cáceres himself. Will you plead for an official recognition of the work of this group? Finally, what is the state of play on the Agua Zarca project?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic647x.u76	Madam President, Mr Van Peteghem, we are staying in Honduras. Belgium is following this case through the Panamanian Embassy, in close cooperation with the EU delegation. Following the murder of Berta Cáceres, the EU issued a public statement calling for a transparent investigation. The EU ambassador attended Mrs Cáceres' wake in the city of La Esperanza on behalf of all EU Member States and visited the family of Berta Cáceres one year after the murder. According to the information I currently have, an independent international investigation was not prevented by the Honduran authorities in other murder cases concerning human rights activists. The investigation by the authorities is still ongoing. Several suspects were arrested. Belgium takes note of the initiative of a parallel investigation, but it still seems premature to comment on this in the context of ongoing judicial proceedings. According to information available to me, no specific protection measures were taken for Berta Cáceres, but they were provided for members of the Consejo Cívico de Organizaciones Populares e Indígenas de Honduras. The latter was confirmed by the daughter of Berta Cáseres to my services, who received her on 6 April. Since, according to my information, no Belgian company is involved in the Agua Zarca project, I cannot answer this sub-question immediately. My services will continue to inform themselves.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic647x.u77	Minister, there has been a lot of commotion about Saudi Arabia becoming a member of the Women's Status Commission. Everyone is wondering how this could have gotten this far. The ECOSOC, in which our country is also entitled to vote, voted last week on the new members for the Committee on Women's Status. It concerns a total of 54 members. This committee is specifically committed to promoting gender equality and women's rights worldwide. For the geographical group Asia-Sille South Sea, Saudi Arabia, among others, was elected as a member. Apparently, there were only five candidates from that group that made them all elected. Saudi Arabia is bumping into the chest because they really do not approve equal rights between men and women. Women can't do anything, legally, without a man's permission. That's why all this calls for so much commotion. My questions are as follows. How did it come to this voting procedure? Normally there is no vote, but the designation is done by consensus. If one looks at foreign sites, the United States has apparently provoked this vote. We can therefore ask ourselves what they intended to do with this. Does the Trump administration intend in this way to undermine the status of women and highlight its anti-gender policy? Can you explain the Belgian attitude? Belgium also had to vote. If Human Rights Watch is applied, Saudi Arabia has only received 47 out of 54 votes. The question is how Belgium voted. How do you estimate the impact of Saudi Arabia on women's status in the Commission? What impact will they have on moving forward on gender equality? Is there any negative impact on UN policy and its specialised organisations?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic647x.u78	Minister, on 22 April Saudi Arabia was elected to the UN Economic and Social Council as a member of the Commission on the status of women. From 2018 to 2022, the country will be part of a specific body dedicated to gender equality and women's empowerment. You are aware that Saudi Arabia is almost the most misogynistic country in the world. The presence of that country in the Human Rights Council itself is a disgrace, let alone the election in the Commission on the status of women. Saudi Arabia is an example of how it should not be done worldwide. Women are victims of systematic discrimination. They can't drive. They have no political role to play. There are fundamental decisions that relate to them that can only be taken by the man. Saudi Arabia is the 141st place of the 144 countries in the Global Gender Gap Report 2016. There is therefore no equality between men and women. Forty-seven of the 54 ECOSOC countries voted in favour. There are 13 European countries in the ECOSOC, of which ten are EU countries. This means that at least six European countries have voted for Saudi Arabia, of which at least three EU countries have voted. My question is brief but important: did Belgium vote for Saudi Arabia's candidacy?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic647x.u79	Madam Chair, Minister, I am not going to repeat what has just been said. It is known that Saudi Arabia was elected to the Commission on Women's Rights by a secret vote of 47 of the 54 member states of the United Nations Economic and Social Council, of which Belgium is a member. My only question, already asked by my colleagues, is what was Belgium's vote in this context?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic647x.u80	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, on 19 April there were indeed elections for the membership of 18 auxiliary bodies of the United Nations Economic and Social Council, including the Women's Status Commission, where 13 mandates were to be renewed in 45. The countries with the right to vote were the 54 members of ECOSOC. Belgium is a member of both ECOSOC and the Commission for the Status of Women, a mandate that expires in 2019. For 17 of these 18 auxiliary bodies, the elections were organised with a so-called clean slate situation. This means that there were as many candidates as seats within a regional group and that the election of the candidates was therefore virtually assured. In such a situation, it is customary in ECOSOC to proceed to an election by acclamation of all candidates, i.e. without a vote. Shortly before the start of the procedure, the United States unexpectedly asked for a vote on this usual practice before the elections for three auxiliary bodies, including the Women's Status Commission. The secret ballot therefore led without surprise to the election of all the candidate countries in the place available within these three bodies. In particular, Saudi Arabia was indeed elected as one of the 13 new members of the Women's Status Commission. I was not aware of the request for a vote, but I saw that it was possible for our service to vote. In order to preserve the proper functioning of multilateral bodies, Belgium's rule is to refrain from making public comments on its voting behaviour in secret ballots. However, I can tell you this. Belgium does not welcome the election of Saudi Arabia to this committee, but must note that she was the only candidate in her group in that place. Belgium, like the vast majority of United Nations member States, respects clean slates and the usual practice of not voting in such situations, for two reasons: the first is that from the moment a certain country is the only candidate for a seat in the United Nations, demanding the vote ends up delegitimizing the United Nations by developing the idea that the United Nations and its subsidiary bodies are valid only if there are only countries with which there is general agreement. I strongly advocate multilateral meetings and therefore, in this context, with countries whose opinions we do not share. This dialogue must be opened, not only bilaterally but also in all multilateral forums. Second, such reasoning can easily turn against those who hold it. Western countries are far from having a majority in the United Nations and this could result in us not being regularly elected to such bodies. Belgium has always defended multilateral diplomacy, I said. The United Nations in general and the Committee on the Status of Women in particular exist precisely to be places of debate, which means that we can meet from time to time in the face of countries with which we are deeply in disagreement, as I have just said. At least, does the committee provide a forum where we can speak clearly about these issues with a country like Saudi Arabia and involve it in such debates. It is therefore up to us, as a member of the committee, to make our views known and to counter those of the Member States with which we do not agree. As regards the assessment of the impact of Saudi Arabia on the work of this committee, I would like to draw your attention to the specific working method of this committee, which meets every March for two weeks in New York. This meeting was decided on the adoption of so-called aggrieved conclusions on a priority theme. This year, for example, the theme of women's economic empowerment in the changed world of work. The phenomenon of aggressive conclusion is a specific feature of the committee: all UN members, regardless of whether they are members of the committee or observer, can participate in the negotiations on these aggrieved conclusions, on which consensus must be reached. There is no vote on these conclusions. It is, in other words, an all-or-nothing negotiation. The impact of membership of a country such as Saudi Arabia should therefore not be overestimated. The active participation of a country in the work of the committee does expose it to the different positions on women's rights of both other countries and the numerous NGOs participating in the committee. Finally, I would like to point out that the committee is only one of many bodies, where the promotion and protection of women's rights are on the agenda, alongside the Human Rights Council and the Third Committee of the General Assembly. In addition to these intergovernmental bodies, our country attaches great importance to the work of the CEDAW Committee, which is composed of independent experts and ensures compliance with the International Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women. In other words, I can confirm that I was not aware that a vote was going to take place. I confirm what my services have said: we follow the traditional clean slate procedure, that is to say, respect for the fact that there were as many countries as there were seats to be filled. Had that not been the case, we would obviously have made a choice that would certainly not have been in favour of Saudi Arabia. However, I hear and read, including in NGO sources, that there are followers of two schools. The first is that we should not go directly to United Nations bodies with countries with which we do not agree, and the others believe that only this dialogue, this discussion, has a small chance, even if it is very weak, to change the situation. I understand the emotion that this kind of announcement causes every time. It can be discussed and changed, but I remain convinced that only direct bilateral contact, which I regularly engage with that country or others, or direct dialogue within multilateral bodies, can have an impact. I would add that, although we will probably discuss this again in other matters or in other debates, in the situation we are experiencing today, in which a number of important politicians on the international scene are questioning multilateralism, not entering into a debate with countries with which we do not agree, within multilateral bodies, has a huge risk: the setting aside of the institutions to which we are particularly committed, such as the United Nations. I repeat that I did not know, because the request came very late, but I fully respect the choices made by the diplomats, namely to continue to support the candidatures when there are as many candidates as there are seats to be filled. The choice would have been different, and I suppose I would have been informed, in another setting. It's the same appreciation we've always had. However, I want to recall my position as I have often done here: I believe that only a direct dialogue can have an impact on any country. It is too easy to say that we should go to meetings with just people who follow the same reasoning as us. There's no point. In this way it will become a small club that will no longer have any influence on countries that are in a different situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic647x.u81	Thank you for your reply, Minister. I understand from your reply that our country was taken by surprise by that vote. It is indeed no custom to vote on it, hence the commotion. We must also ask ourselves questions about the United States which provoked the vote. The most important question is what Trump's administration means by that. Does the Commission intend to undermine the status of women? We absolutely must oppose that. We must give it sufficient weight. The Women's Status Commission has created the Bible for equal opportunities for men and women, in particular the Beijing Platform for Action, which clearly states that sexual and reproductive rights are important. That's what Trump's administration doesn't want. It has therefore also reduced all UNFPA funds. That must also be the diplomatic question that we can ask. I believe, of course, that we should continue to debate this issue, including with the countries of the Middle East, Iran and the Vatican, countries that are struggling with the equality of men and women. I myself attended the Beijing Conference in 1995. I know which countries are traditionally opposed to these important rights for men and women and equal rights. Saudi Arabia and Iran were not immediately the countries that advocated gender equality. So we need to ask questions about what will happen in the future, including about Saudi Arabia's membership. We must be more vigilant than before, as the United States has played the game in this way. Saudi Arabia is also a country where Mr De Vriendt has referred to it. Every woman has a guardian without whom she is not allowed to do anything. She can't travel. Voting rights have recently been granted. They only have the right to vote since 2016. So that's really aberrant. They must not move or undergo any medical procedure without the permission of a man. We must, more than ever, monitor the achievements that we have since Beijing and continue to safeguard them. We must also continue to monitor our position and what is happening in the Committee on Women's Status. The power of action of that committee is not enormous. Everything happens through the UN Security Council. We must keep women's rights on the agenda there too. The Committee on Women's Status will be important as a result of the event. We must be very alert and vigilant in this respect. I understand that the Belgian attitude is 'you have not explicitly stated this 'that we have voted 'yes' because of tradition in the past. Nevertheless, I would ask that very great vigilance be shown in the Commission on the status of women and on the future agenda, so that the achievements are not put at risk.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic647x.u82	Madam President, Minister, I do not know if it was your intention, but you were very clear. You have made all kinds of excuses to justify and defend the candidacy, election and place of Saudi Arabia on the United Nations Women's Commission. You pointed out that there were as many candidates as there were seats and that we should not overestimate the impact of Saudi Arabia. You also said that we should keep the dialogue open. Minister, you did not say it literally, but Belgium approved the election of Saudi Arabia to the Committee on Women's Rights in the vote. That's obviously a good choice for you, too. That is a stump in the stomach of anyone who fights for women's rights in our country, but also in the Middle East and in Saudi Arabia itself. The inequality between men and women in Saudi Arabia is systematic. There is absolute discrimination. Saudi Arabia scores extremely badly. What example do we give when a country such as Belgium is talking about standards and values? A country like Saudi Arabia chooses to participate in that UN Women's Commission? The Committee on Women's Rights should work towards greater equality for women, gender equality, more women's rights and so on. How can this committee be an example for countries where women's rights are harmed if those other countries say that Saudi Arabia itself is on that committee? What authority does that committee have to speak to? What authority can that women's committee still speak within the UN when it has to talk about women's rights, when a country such as Saudi Arabia is on that committee? That simply cannot be explained. You and your government can organize as many conferences on women's rights as you want and deposit as much money into all kinds of funds for birth control as you want, it's hard to explain. We're standing here with the pants on our ankles. I can only guess the motives. At least I know it's not good. I find it a disgrace, I find the voting behaviour of our country shocking. I can only hope that it has nothing to do with our country's candidacy for a seat on the UN Security Council. After all, I am well aware of the need to lobby for this and of the need for diplomatic contacts. However, how far do we go and to what extent are we prepared to throw principles overboard? You didn't say it literally, but your answer was very, very clear. You say that we can debate this. I hope that we will continue to do so in the future and that we have now started doing so, but I repeat that it does not benefit the authority of the Committee on Women's Rights when a country such as Saudi Arabia is in it. You say that we should debate women's rights with Saudi Arabia. No, no, no, I'm not saying the same thing. No, you have to listen. We can discuss women's rights with Saudi Arabia, but bilaterally, directly with the country. Don't give that country authority by choosing it on the United Nations Women's Commission. That is a bad choice and we will continue to do so. We will also try to question the Prime Minister on this, because it is a government's view that will have implications and effects on what Belgium will say about women's rights in general in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic647x.u83	Madam President, Minister, thank you for your answers, which, of course, ask many questions. Mr. De Vriendt has just drawn attention to several of them. I understand that we can question the attitude of the United States in this matter, that we can argue for the non-interruption of dialogue and the continuation of discussions with all countries, including those with which we do not necessarily share the same values. Nevertheless, it is shocking to know, even if this has not been said, that Belgium has voted in favour of Saudi Arabia's accession to this Commission. When we know the country's position on women's rights, it raises a lot of questions. My colleague Wouter De Vriendt highlighted an essential element. What is the limit not to be exceeded? To what extent can the debate, dialogue, be maintained? How far can one go before marking a will to break? It is vital and urgent – you have opened the door, but I hope it will be possible – that we can have a broader debate on the positions we want our diplomacy to take abroad on issues such as this and on the votes we must achieve at some point in these international forums. I have heard all the elements that you wanted to highlight regarding the desirability of continuing the dialogue. But in this particular case, our diplomacy should perhaps have shown a greater will to break and, in any case, not to vote for Saudi Arabia's admission to the Commission. Like my colleague, I hope that our position was not linked to our candidacy in the Security Council because, at times, in some cases, we must be able to adopt a clear attitude. I regret that our country did not have a clearer attitude on this vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic647x.u84	Madam President, Deputy Prime Minister, I asked you a few months ago about the situation of homosexuals in Tunisia and about the acts committed against them by the Tunisian authorities. I am asking you again about this. LGBTQI associations stress the existence of discriminatory practices against gays, an anti-gay law. Practices, called "homosexuality tests" consisting of a forced anal test, are intended to prove the homosexuality of arrested persons. These practices, which the National Council of the Order of Tunisian Physicians requests to stop, in addition to the fact that they do not prove anything, are a genuine rape, in the opinion of those who have suffered it. Indeed, the police force accused persons to "consent" to the clinical examination, which is for them only a means of torture and traumatizing persons suspected of being homosexual. Beyond the physical and psychological trauma experienced, whether there is evidence or not, the victims of these practices are sentenced to prison for homosexuality. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, you responded to my first inquiry that Tunisia's path to democracy required patience in respect of all human rights. I think that, overall, you are right. Can you inform us about the advancement, with respect for human rights, women's rights and the rights of homosexuals in particular? Experience has long shown that respect for the rights of sexual minorities and women's rights are interrelated. What about Tunisia? Do you intend to ask the Tunisian authorities and the Tunisian Order of Physicians to completely prohibit this police violence against homosexuals? At a time when the known horror of the atrocities suffered by Chechen homosexuals makes the headlines, rightly leading to our indignation, would leave the situation as it stands not mean that human rights do not include those of homosexuals and respect for their physical and psychological integrity? How do you intend to act, when our Parliament has adopted a resolution calling for the decriminalisation of homosexuality in the world, so that in Tunisia this objective is finally met?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic647x.u85	Mr Flahaux, the practice you address in your question is shocking and goes against our values. This is also the opinion of many Tunisian NGOs as well as the Tunisian Order of Physicians, which in itself is an encouraging sign. The improvement of the human rights situation in Tunisia has been undeniable since the 2011 revolution. Tunisia was the first Arab country to include in its Constitution the equality of men and women. While the human rights situation in Tunisia follows a positive trend, it must be recognized that there is still progress to be made, in particular to bring legislation into line with the new Constitution. This positive development is largely the result of developments that come under the initiative of civil society actors. This is particularly the case with the decision of the Order of Tunisian Physicians in early April to ban the tests you mention in your question. I remain convinced that if we want to see effective improvements in the human rights situation in a country, interventionist discourse is not the effective way to achieve this, on the contrary. In my view, it is necessary to adapt its approach to a number of factors on the ground, particularly on issues where the national context is not conducive to openness, as is the case with the human rights issues of LGBTI people in Tunisia. Here, support for civil society is a top priority for us. This is an important element of the European Union's guidelines on the human rights of LGBTI people, to which our country has actively contributed, as has the decriminalisation of homosexuality - identified as one of the priorities of the European Union's approach in this area. We will remain attentive to developments in the human rights situation in Tunisia and we will continue, together with our European partners, to support Tunisian civil society as a driver and driver of progress in that country. I think that's the best way to do it. As I said about other situations, but we will come back to that, direct dialogue with the authorities is essential in all bilateral or multilateral fora, as well as, of course, in such a case, immediate support for civil society.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic647x.u86	Minister, thank you for your answer. Like you, I believe that live dialogue and support for civil society are fundamental. Having said that, it is also our duty to denounce any unacceptable situation. Of course, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, you have every latitude, competence and opportunity to see how to act in a particular country, depending on the circumstances of the country.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic647x.u87	Madam President, Minister, if the respect for women's rights – we have just talked about it – is put on our country's hands, even if there is still progress to be made, this is not the case everywhere in the world. Among the places on the planet where they are limited when they are not flouted and denied, Saudi Arabia has a special place. Recent positive developments, such as the right to vote in local elections, although modest, are an encouraging sign. But the path to real emancipation will still be long. All their lives, women are considered to be underage, indecent to a father, husband, brother or son for a widow, in an unbearable situation of alienation. This does not prevent Saudi women from using gsm or accessing the Internet. The state is letting some progress be made. I question you today about Dina Ali, a young Saudi woman who fled her country to Australia in order to escape a forced marriage. In transit to Manila airport, she made the mistake of sharing the picture of her plane tickets on Facebook. What an idea! She was arrested by local police and handed over to Saudi authorities for return to her family. Before being arrested, she promptly sent a distress call explaining that the return to her family would sign her death sentence. Deputy Prime Minister, can you give us any information about the fate of this young Saudi woman? That reminds me a little of the famous liberal broadcaster we talked about a few months ago. Is she still alive? How is it treated? In the name of human rights, no more than in Chechnya for homosexuals, we can admit that in the name of a questionable honour, Saudi families have the right to life or death over women. Can you tell us how you pleaded the fate of this young woman with the Saudi authorities, if you ever had the opportunity to do so? How do you plead the fate of Saudi women, given their freedom to move and marry, who are increasingly running away to emancipate themselves? In fact, Saudi officials have as their goal, in Vision 2030, the integration of women into economic life. What emancipatory effects does this plan produce? What changes can be expected? What is the reception and protection policy for victims of forced marriage in Belgium or Europe? How can we act to save women who refuse to abdicate their freedoms from violence and death? Madam President, I share your feeling that the inclusion of Saudi Arabia in the famous Commission will force it to evolve positively for women's rights, which is very necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic647x.u88	Madam President, Mr Flahaux, I hear a few comments that you made on certain elements that may appear to be positive in Saudi Arabia. Nevertheless, as you have also indicated, the situation of women in this country is generally disastrous and the path to emancipation will still be very long. I am particularly aware of Mrs Ali's case. According to our latest information, she would be in a shelter in Riyadh, from where we would be looking for a solution for her situation. As you know, Belgium is particularly committed to the promotion of women's rights in all appropriate international fora, including the Human Rights Council, the Third Committee of the General Assembly, the Commission on the Status of Women and in support of the Committee on the Elimination of All Discrimination against Women. Belgium also systematically raises human rights issues in its bilateral contacts with Saudi Arabia, but the possibilities for direct intervention in an individual case, without any consular ties with Belgium, are limited, especially in the case of Saudi Arabia, where violations of women's rights are unfortunately not the only justification for bilateral approaches. The policy of welcoming and protecting victims of forced marriages in Belgium is more directly within the competence of my colleague the Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration. However, I would like to thank you for asking this specific question highlighting an individual situation. Indeed, for a number of individual situations, if we have a limited capacity for action bilaterally because we have no consular competence, we can, on the other hand, talk about cases with other colleagues in all multilateral forums. I remain convinced that the best way to make an attempt to advance the human rights situation in a country such as Saudi Arabia is to be able to discuss it directly, particularly in a multilateral forum such as the United Nations. To meet exclusively between countries that share exactly the same points of view will not advance the debate. I believe that we will have the opportunity, both in the Human Rights Council and in the case of women, to return to these situations, in the presence of the representatives of Saudi Arabia, by clearly explaining what our position is, I think, that of a whole series of other participants on the subject. And we will. But talking about it between ourselves, without ever giving itself the capacity to discuss it together with the countries concerned, will not do much, if not at all, to advance the situation of women in this example, but not, unfortunately, that of other categories of people in the field of human rights.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic647x.u89	As I agree 100% with what you said, I have nothing to add.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic647x.u90	Madam President, Minister, last week in The Hague there was a discussion between the Prime Ministers of the Netherlands, Ireland and Denmark on the Brexit. These countries wanted to meet together in the run-up to the extraordinary European Council on Brexit this weekend. Like our country, the three countries have an important trade relationship with the United Kingdom. They first wanted to see how they could work together towards the establishment of the EU guidelines on the Brexit. However, Belgium was not allowed to be present. Did our country receive an invitation to this meeting? If so, what were the arguments for not participating? If not, why not? How do you estimate the impact of the three countries' common positions on the format of the EU guidelines on Brexit? How do you estimate the evolution of this forum? What role do you see in this for our country?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic647x.u91	Through the press, together with my services, I learned about the informal lunch between the Netherlands, Ireland and Denmark about the Brexit on Friday 21 April 2017. On the basis of my contacts, I understand that this informal meeting should not lead to a special joint initiative being sought by those three countries. It was a purely informal exchange of views, as our country does a great deal with its partners within the European Union. For example, the Prime Minister will travel to Slovenia and the Czech Republic next week. A summit between the Benelux and Visegrad countries will also be held this summer. I myself participated in a meeting between the Benelux and Visegrad countries in February 2017, where the issue of the Brexit was also discussed. Ireland, the Netherlands and Denmark, in their press statement, after the informal meeting, stressed very strongly the importance of united action by the EU27. We will go in the same direction with the EU 27 with a common position and unanimity in the evolution of the Brexit discussion.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic647x.u92	Minister, I can only hope that a united position will be adopted. That is also the position of this government and of the EU. I attended the Schmelzer lecture last Friday in The Hague, where Irish Prime Minister Kenny also explained this discussion. He referred to a meeting with our Prime Minister. Above all, I noticed that his main objective, in addition to the economic interests which are very important to us but also to Ireland, was the social impact of the Brexit on the situation in Northern Ireland and Ireland. It is mainly in this respect that he sought support from the other European countries. Thank you for your reply, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-26-54-commissie-ic647x.u93	That is the end of the agenda. I thank the Minister.
