ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic653x.u1	Question No 18022 by Mrs Daphné Dumery on water sports instructors had been referred to the Social Affairs Committee. I agreed that she would come back here, since you agreed to answer her other questions, Mr. Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic653x.u2	Madam President, Secretary of State, I am pleased to see you, because it is rare for us to question you. That's why our questions don't necessarily fit into the news. In mid-January, the Belgian coast was hit by storm Dieter. Although its consequences were less severe than expected, its passage nevertheless caused enormous damage. Thus, hundreds of thousands of tons of sand have disappeared as a result of waves and wind. Mr. Secretary of State, has the cost for beach rehabilitation been determined? Is the federal government involved in this important project, which is primarily the responsibility of Flanders? Instead of refloating sandy beaches after storms such as Dieter, it appears that the Dutch authorities have opted for a more sustainable solution, i.e. the creation of an artificial island that directly influences currents and thus protects dunes. Within the framework of your competences, what is the state of play of the consultations you have on this subject?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic653x.u3	Mr Senesael, as you point out, the special law on institutional reform provides that the Flemish Region is competent for public works used for coastal defence and, therefore, for dikes. The federal authority is therefore not associated with it. Your second question, however, points out that we have some competence as far as, for example, in the plan for the development of marine areas, we can indicate areas for very specific reasons. In this plan, which is in force until 2020, several measures are taken in terms of coastal defence. Thus, to reach the required volume of sand, we have defined areas of sand extraction in the North Sea. In the vicinity of La Panne, a specific location has been planned for experiments in this area. For our part, in February we already launched a process to revise this marine plan. We are collecting all the information and proposals, especially from the Flemish Region. The Commission is currently considering the idea of a pilot island for a better coastal defence. We need to examine them with all relevant partners to ensure that we remain connected with the requests made. We are therefore looking at how to strengthen coastal defence in the next plan.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic653x.u4	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for your response and, above all, for your responsiveness and proactivity. I am talking about reactivity, because, in the 2020 plan, you have identified specific locations and locations for extraction and you are already busy looking at how to revise it after this deadline, involving the relevant partners who will be able to make their contribution in order to improve coastal defence.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic653x.u5	Madam President, Secretary of State, the press has announced that you want to cancel the last three park projects off the Belgian coast and that you are going to propose to the government to withdraw the concessions granted to the Northwester II, Seastar and Mermaid projects. The areas concerned would be re-allocated, through a new European tender, to the one which could build the park at the lowest cost. Wind energy at sea has long been one of the most expensive forms of renewable energy and in the past Belgium has promised billions for the construction of nine wind farms off its coast. As you said, this is a win for life for owners and a pay for life for the state and citizens; a new pay for life, one might say, since in Flanders, all households already have to pay the "Turteltaks". So one might wonder if, at some point, there won't be a "De Backer taks". Last March, a CREG report already pointed to this problem and called into question the government's choices. In June, Belgium granted EUR 124 and EUR 129 per megawatt produced to Norther and Rental parks. But a month later, the Netherlands paid a much lower price for its parks, 72 euros. At the end of December, a consortium led by Shell obtained the price of 54 euros, a price divided by two across the Dutch border. According to Luc Pauwels, a VRT journalist, the Norther and Rental parks will cost two billion more subsidies than the Dutch parks. The current system of concessions will cost, according to estimates, three to five billion euros for the last three parks Last week, according to the press, it was Germany's turn to announce that three parks would be built by 2025 without any subsidies, their owners counting only on the sale price of electricity to achieve profitability. As a result of these revelations, your colleague, Mrs Marghem, has announced that you intend to reduce funding for future parks. Minister, do you confirm this information? Has this issue been discussed within the government? Are Minister Marghem and other members of the government on the same page as you? Do you confirm the cost estimates of the previous grants granted to Norther and Rental Parks by an additional two billion compared to the Netherlands? Who will pay this cost and how? How will the tenders for the three parks to be built be completed? You say you trust the market, but we see that the market has been dysfunctional. If it is possible in Germany to build without subsidies, why would this not be the case in Belgium? How will this impact on Belgium's renewable energy targets? To the question of cost is added the importance of the energy transition. Wasn't it too late to make this arrangement?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic653x.u6	A higher share of wind energy will be needed so that our country would meet the 2020 climate targets. There's no discussion about that. There was a planning: in the coming years there would be at least three wind farms, namely Seastar, Mermaid and Northwester. The concessions were given at an earlier stage under other conditions. In the meantime, prices have fallen. We saw the same thing with concessions in the Netherlands, Germany and Denmark. But we can't compare apples to pears. It's about another subsurface, it was at another time; the power outlet to get the electricity to the mainland used to look different. In any case, I agree that the subsidies granted are very high. You have now decided to stop the concessions and launch a new tender. The permits have been granted in the past. Has the cessation of concessions taken place in conjunction or in consultation with the sector? This withdrawal will undoubtedly also ensure that our green electricity targets will not be met by 2020. One of the conditions was that this should be in order by 2020. I have a number of questions about that. How do you still want to achieve the climate and green electricity targets by 2020, now that the concessions are revoked? After all, a whole new procedure will have to be launched. How will you organize it? How much time will that procedure take? Was there any discussion with the concessionaires themselves about the problem of higher subsidies and was there no comparison possible? There is no doubt that the concessionaires will ask for compensation. Has an analysis been made of the possible legal and financial consequences? Could you give us a little more explanation on that? By what time do you intend to organise the new calls for tender for the award? In addition to the fact that we are unlikely to reach the climate and green electricity targets by 2020, there is also the closure of nuclear power plants by 2025. I understand, and I am also in favour, that subsidies should not be paid in full by the community and that a solution should therefore be sought. However, your approach could lead to the closure of nuclear power plants in 2025 being hypothesized. You're shaking no. I will be pleased to hear that the wind farms will be ready by then and that the government is still going to close the nuclear power stations by the deadline set.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic653x.u7	Mr Secretary of State, you will agree with me that with several speakers on the same subject, there are necessarily repetitions! You'll excuse me. The press recently relayed your desire to cancel the concessions granted to the last three wind farms projects off the Belgian coast and to relaunch a new European tender in order to reduce costs. This decision has been the subject of many criticisms – as is often the case – particularly on the part of the sector, since several million euros have already been invested in the concessions concerned. The sector regrets this decision because, in their view, these setbacks undermine investments in renewable energy. The representatives also announced that they would claim compensation of several tens of millions of euros if the withdrawal of the concession became effective. Was your announcement co-ordinated with your government partners? An intercabinets was supposed to deal recently with your proposal to withdraw the concessions awarded to the last three parks. What came out of it? According to the Secretary General of the Belgian Offshore Platform, it would be entirely possible to reduce the level of financial support without cancelling the concessions. What is your view on this and have you made contact with the sector? If concessions were cancelled, this would lead to delays in the construction of parks and could undermine Belgium's ability to meet European renewable energy targets by 2020. How do you plan to make up for these delays in order to meet our objectives?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic653x.u8	I am pleased to note that we agree on a number of issues: the need to look at the level of the subsidy and the fact that we really need to build these three last parks. The latter I remain truly convinced of. I believe that this is necessary in order to achieve our 2020 and even 2030 targets. You're absolutely right. The closure of the nuclear power stations by 2025, which I also remain behind, is coming. During that period, we must also continue to invest sufficiently in renewable energy. Allow me to outline the background to the story. The reason why questions are now being asked is very simple. I became Secretary of State exactly a year ago and then I got involved in the file. In its report of end 2015, the CREG concluded that the existing support of the two parks should be limited to 138 euro levelized cost of energy (LCOE). At that time, the CREG considered this to be an acceptable level of support. Other international studies, from Ernst&Young and the European Commission, also mentioned a drop in prices to €120 or €125 by 2020 and probably to less than 100 by 2030. That was, when I started, the accepted notion. I myself, together with Minister Marghem, negotiated these two parks, interestel and Norther, and we obtained that those parks were built with EUR 1.2 billion less support than originally planned. What happened a few months later? As we worked with concessions granted ten years ago, negotiations had to be renegotiated. The Netherlands had started with a tender, a public tender with the demand for the market for the construction of wind farms in its part of the North Sea at a certain price. To everyone's surprise it turned out that this price was substantially lower than in Belgium; the park should be finished later, as the closure of Borssele is planned for 2020 or 2021. At the same time, the European Commission's answer to our question was whether our support mechanism for Interestel and Norther was market-based, whether there was excessive subsidisation and therefore state aid. It concluded that the support mechanism was acceptable, but that we had to ensure that several market players would have access to it. I'll come back to that later. In addition, we had asked the CREG for a projection of the price reductions with an opinion on the extent of possible support for future parks. In the meantime, it presented the results a few weeks ago and concludes that for the last three parks, support of around €60 to €65 is acceptable. In the meantime, the market response to the public tender in Germany for the construction of parks for the 2023-2024 period was that this was possible without a subsidy. [[So I can only conclude, especially in view of the schwung in recent years' prices, that the way in which we are granting support today, based on studies by experts and extrapolations from other parks, is totally inadequate to estimate the price for which a wind farm can be built in our North Sea.]] Initially, all international studies said that EUR 125 to EUR 130 was acceptable. Now, a year later, that figure dropped to 0 euros for parks in 2023. Then I think we should also take responsibility and see how we can build the parks at the best possible price. Why do I care? Belgium has always been a pioneer in offshore energy. In the beginning, ten years ago, support was given to support the sector. Today that is a mature industry, which can actually function perfectly without subsidies. That's the most important breaking point. Because it has become a mature industry, we are no longer talking about a normal price drop, but we are really talking about a crack in the price. The only way to determine what the right price is, at which price a wind farm in Belgium can be built at sea, is in my opinion a survey of the market. That is the choice that I have made, also by intercession of the government. The moment we established these price reductions, I discussed them in the government. We were then instructed to reduce prices on the one hand and, on the other hand, to examine the possibility of withdrawing concessions and, where appropriate, re-placing them on the market. We've looked at those two elements. According to the legal advice I have received, it is indeed possible to withdraw the concessions, and that is also what I have proposed to the government. Furthermore, we have of course also informally spoken with the major shareholders of the parks and asked them last summer why they are applying for a subsidy for two parks, while in the Netherlands it can be done much faster and cheaper. They claimed that their study indeed results in a price level higher than 100, which would be market-based. That's what they tried to prove back then. In short, following the CREG study, which found an acceptable price of EUR 60 to EUR 65, the informal contacts that I and Mrs Marghem had demonstrated clearly that this price cannot be reached, and that a study they ordered to undermine the CREG study indicates that prices in Belgium must be much higher than what the CREG is forcing the sector to do. For me there is only one logical conclusion. Considering that it is a mature industry and prices are falling so quickly that even experts, regulators and international reports cannot estimate them from EUR 125, EUR 130 and even EUR 138 to EUR 0 today is a major drop in prices, I have proposed to the government that the concessions be revoked and put back on the market through a public tender. What steps should we take now? We have already discussed this and everyone agrees that concessions should be effectively revoked. There is a way to withdraw the concessions and possibly close a deal. It remains to be seen whether compensation will have to be paid, but I will give you a number of figures. In the Netherlands too, concessions have been revoked. The compensation was then EUR 7 million. We, too, in Belgium, once revoked a concession because we had filled out the plain of the Raan as an ecological area. The negotiations are about millions of euros. If I can save the consumer 5 billion in Belgium by paying compensation of several million euros, then that choice has been made relatively quickly for me. The next step to be taken is the preparation of a public tender, a tender. I've already made contact with the FPS Economy to see how that should be done. We have the examples in the Netherlands, Germany and Denmark. We certainly should not reinvent the hot water. The data is available to do the tenders. You yourself talked about soil stability and depths, which can indeed have an impact on pricing. As the data are available, we can move forward relatively quickly. We must, of course, think about everything. I certainly don't want to do it fast. We must also think carefully about the structure of concessions. Did we do it right? Do procurement in other countries take place in a different way, with greater or less pine concessions at other locations? That's what we need to look at. The last step is to make it possible, and I therefore remain optimistic about the future of the sector, that, with an accelerated drop in prices, it should be perfectly possible for me to provide additional windmill capacity at sea in the new marine spatial plan. Why wouldn't we? If we can build at the price of electricity at that time, without subsidies, why not consider whether we can identify additional places for additional capacity in the North Sea, as the sector itself has already requested? In this case, wind farms, which today is 2.2 gigawatts, could produce up to 4 gigawatts. It's a perfect way to shut down a nuclear power plant. We replace Objective by providing additional capacity in the North Sea. In any case, it is my intention to look at these possibilities in the context of the discussion on the marine spatial plan. In addition, we have started discussions with the European Commission with a view to achieving our 2020 objective, which is also close to my heart. Since the European Commission, through Commissioner Sefcovic, announced at a conference last week that the rapid drop in prices would require a review of the models, it will undoubtedly be open to a mature discussion which will show that we want to achieve our objective as quickly as possible, that we are prepared to make additional investments to this end and, in our energy policy, very clearly stick to a coherent policy in which the regions and communities work together on an Energy Pact with the federal government. It is true that our long-term vision must be anchored in this policy so that the necessary investments can be maintained. I think that's the right thing to do. A plan has been drawn up within the government to first try to take these concessions back and put them back on the market. Then we will consider how to make this public offer. In the marine plan, we will try to find new spaces to continue investing in renewables, with a view to our 2020-2030 targets.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic653x.u9	Thank you, Minister. It can only be satisfied that the government does not remain a prisoner of agreements reached. If compensation is derisory in relation to earnings, it should be stressed. Having said that, I have the impression that we have even more questions after your answer! How can we explain a price drop so steep in such a short time? I didn't hear any explanation from you. I have the impression that it is the market that was in the pocket of huge amounts that do not correspond to economic reality, on the basis of a monopolistic or other situation. This raises serious questions about the disproportionate profit margins of certain energy companies. This raises a general question about our entire energy policy and the fact that we have always left this in the hands of the private sector. What's it gonna cost? Will it be possible, as in Germany, not to grant subsidies? I hope it's on this assumption that you're leaving. Will the deadlines be reasonable? I understand you don't have the answers to everything, but we still find ourselves with a lot of questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic653x.u10	Madam President, Minister, thank you for your reply, which I can largely follow. If we can get the subsidies down, we have to do it. I have a small reply to what Mr Van Hees said. I'm not saying they didn't oversubsidise. That is a completely different discussion, but the technology of the wind farms has evolved enormously, if only because of the size of the wicks, making it more profitable. It doesn't explain everything, but it's definitely an element that needs to be taken on board. I'm a little less positive about the capacity. You say that this will not be a problem and that the nuclear power stations will be able to close down. I'm glad you're gonna stand behind that, but you say you're gonna look for new places. There aren't any yet. We are now 2017 and 2025 will arrive very soon. I hope that this will not be used to say that nuclear power stations cannot be shut down because there are not enough alternatives. I really hope that the government will stick to its intention to close the nuclear power plants by 2025 and that the 2020 targets will be met. You say that there will be consultations with the European Community in order to postpone this. We've been hearing that for years. You have a lot of hope in the Energy Pact. You can not blame me, but the Energy Pact is not going to happen. It'll probably come, but there won't be anything in it. Think of the discussions that are still taking place today between the Federal Government and the Communities and the Regions and how difficult it was to reach an agreement on the Paris agreements. The agreement had already been concluded and we were too late. If you say that you are confident that the Energy Pact will solve everything, then you cannot blame me for not believing in it. Minister, we will continue to support you when you say that you want these alternatives before closing the nuclear power stations, but I fear that the government will move in a different direction.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic653x.u11	Minister, thank you for your answer and first of all for your explanation of the methodology you have adopted. I share this methodology because I believe that it is not necessary, in order to satisfy the interests of each other, to bring public money directly. I share your vision at this level. I also share the fact that production capacity can be increased to respond appropriately to the 2020 renewable targets, as you have pointed out, and that the goal is not lost sight of. Nevertheless, there are still questions which my colleagues have already raised and which we can share. There is a timing goal to be achieved. You are increasing capacity and we are delighted because it is an alternative to nuclear power, and that is very good, but this increase in capacity will have to be followed by effects. It is in this regard that we will judge your options and above all your ability to deliver on your commitments. If all this is done, we can only congratulate you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic653x.u12	We will close the chapter but there will be an active follow-up on it.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic653x.u13	Mr Secretary of State, my two oral questions have been put together on the agenda, but they are actually two completely different questions. However, I have no problem with your answer to both questions. We'll try to work efficiently here. My first question concerns the various working groups. There is the route for the revision of the marine spatial plan, the route for the North Sea vision 2050 and the route for the revision of the legislation on pleasure sailing. I wonder if there are any other working groups at work. I don't get it anymore. I read several reports about this in the media, but I have the impression that sometimes the media can no longer follow. For this reason, Mr Secretary of State, I would like to ask you which working groups are currently working exactly. My second question concerns the revision of the marine spatial plan and cooperation with Flanders in this area. By 30 April, the various stakeholders and interested parties had to submit their comments and proposals to you. So today is the ideal time to ask you what's going on with that. Article 7 of the EU Directive also requires you to take account of the interaction between land and sea. Mr Secretary of State, how will you consult with both Flemish and local authorities to integrate the measures concerning the interaction between land and sea into the marine spatial plan? Will you also call on the Ecosystem vision off the Flemish coast, which is currently being developed, for the substantive elaboration of the measures? The ideas about our Flemish bays are evolving. The Flemish bays are also part of the marine spatial plan. What position do you take in this regard? Will you take into account the Flemish plans for the development of small-scale professional coastal fishing? Allow me to put another question, which I did not integrate into the text of my question. Maybe you can answer it out of the head. I read in the paper that the atoll for De Haan is coming up again. I don't know where that message came from. A colleague of mine was mentioned in that connection. If you know more about this, perhaps you can explain it.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic653x.u14	Mr Secretary of State, my question about the revision of the marine spatial plan largely overlaps with that of my colleague, so I will not repeat everything. I am particularly curious about the proposals and ideas that the interested parties have sent, as it is early May. So it is indeed the ideal time to hear that from you. What sectors have you received proposals from? What will you do with the ideas? What are the next steps? My colleague has already referred to Article 5 on an ecosystem-based approach. How will you work that out for the Belgian part of the North Sea?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic653x.u15	Madam President, in recent weeks and months we have indeed started a number of parallel paths, but with a logic. Firstly, a long-term vision, the North Sea 2050 vision, has been launched. Three working groups started working on this in early 2017 in order to come up with a draft text. We have chosen to include three major themes: naturality, blue growth and innovation, and multiple use of space. The reports of the various working groups will be integrated in order to make a very broad, transversal view on how to deal with the North Sea. The deadline for this is the end of the year. A second major trajectory that has been launched is the revision of the marine spatial plan. I have already explained in committee and to my fellow Members why we have brought the review forward slightly, as the timing of the current Marine Spatial Plan expires in 2020. We must, of course, prepare for this. I want to see a participatory trajectory there. We have therefore organised a kick-off moment at the beginning of this year, where a call was launched for concrete spatial proposals to be submitted through a standard form. The deadline was April 30th. In the meantime, we have received more than 40 dossiers from various organisations and governments, who have been involved. That is a very large number. We are now in the process of viewing and processing everything. After a process that has already been outlined here once in terms of timing in the construction of the new marine spatial plan, it is ultimately intended to land in spring 2019. Of course, we'll have to make choices. Sometimes there are conflicting questions. So that is actually the second major trajectory that has been launched again in a very participatory way. A third stage, the reform of pleasure shipping legislation, was launched in February. A very wide public survey was conducted and closed on 1 April. There have been hundreds of answers to that. We're processing that too now. The intention is to complete the new legislation on pleasure sailing in spring 2018. These are actually the three biggest projects that are currently under way: the long-term vision, also scientifically based, the marine spatial plan with the concrete action points and then the pleasure boating legislation, a very concrete legislation for which we have a lot of consultation with the sector and with people involved. There are a number of other projects, including European ones, for which we are also trying to consult. The estuary is a theme that comes back very often. We have a lot of discussions with different stakeholders. The action plan on marine waste is also being fully developed. That's under review right now. So we try to involve as many stakeholders as possible in a good way. However, the three largest projects remain the three I have just outlined. The interaction between land and sea is also very good. That's a transversal theme that comes back a lot. I'm sure it's a red wire. That interaction is, of course, constant. For example, we are currently looking at all the proposals in the marine spatial plan. We have received the approach of various sectors, from offshore to alternative sources of energy, from a number of ecological and nature associations, from fisheries, from shipping. All these different stakeholders have effectively co-operated and submitted proposals. I am thinking, for example, of sand mining and you name it, but also of Defence and the Maritime Police. Our own services, for example, have put forward a number of proposals on the Coast Guard issue. All these things were well thought out. We are now in the process of screening and examining how, on the basis of these proposals, we can make choices, organise consultations and eventually come to a new marine spatial plan. Flanders plays a specific role in this, with the story of the Flemish bays and inshore fishing. We have always said that they are a stakeholder, and we will look at the proposals and weigh them against other stakeholders. That analysis is in full swing. I hope we can submit a marine spatial plan to the advisory committee this year. A great deal of progress has already been made in this area and we are working on it. I have the feeling that all this is going well, participatory, substantive and scientifically substantiated. Finally, a word about the ecosystem-based approach. I am a biologist myself and have some affinity with ecosystems in that regard. I'm trying to get everyone involved as wide as I can. In procedural terms, we have already taken some steps. A planologist was appointed, with which the right expertise is present in the planning team. The various administrations that are competent at sea were involved, as were the various stakeholders. There are public consultations, a very important step to keep everyone involved and to identify the ideas that live on the use of the sea, in order to make the right decisions, including within the ecosystem-based approach. The procedure also made it very explicit that the impact of MRP's design on the environment, including the ecosystem-based approach, will be assessed within a strategic environmental impact assessment based on the 2006 law. We have also taken on our responsibilities in this area. Contentually, good environmental status and impact on environmental status will be taken into account as a reference in the preliminary draft marine spatial plan. The previous Marine spatial plan also referred to this and used it. That remains important in the new plan. The implementation of a biodiversity strategy, to actively maintain and sometimes even restore existing ecosystems, has been included. When implementing the regulatory and environmental permit plan, an appropriate assessment will be made on matters such as alien species, environmental impact, stability and so on. I believe that we have taken this system-based approach into account in all areas, both procedurally and substantively, and also in terms of implementation.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic653x.u16	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. It is true that there is now clarity about the various working groups. You work with a good method, especially the questioning. At some point, you'll have to make choices. You will certainly face conflicting interests. It is therefore right to bear in mind the timing for all the projects that are under way. I wish you every success in that.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic653x.u17	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your comprehensive reply. Indeed, choosing is always a bit of a loss. We will follow this up, and we certainly hope that the ecological benefits will not be lost.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic653x.u18	Madam President, Secretary of State, from the beginning of May 2017 until the end of June 2017, the FPS is organising a public consultation on the draft Natura 2000 management plans in the Belgian part of the North Sea. These management plans pursue the European nature objectives of restoring or maintaining a favourable conservation status for the protected habitats and species. In your 2017 policy letter you stated that you would be looking for a solution for the Vlakte van de Raan in the course of 2017. Maybe I read about it, but in the design plan I didn't immediately see a link to the problem of the Plain of the Raan. Unless I've read about it, my questions are as follows. When will the management plan for the Vlakte van de Raan be drawn up? The fishing restrictions in the previous maritime plan were not very ambitious in terms of protecting valuable habitats in the nature reserve of the Flemish Raan. Following the negotiations with other Member States, these measures were also somewhat watered down. How will you ensure that the protection measures taken in Belgium in these management plans will also be internationally valid?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic653x.u19	Madam President, Mrs Dedry, as you know, the story of the Plain of the Raan has some history. This is also not strange to the previous question about wind farms, but I will not go into that now. It is important to take this with you, you know the history as well as I do that the area was designated in 2005 and was currently included on the European list. However, on 1 February 2008, that designation was destroyed by the Council of State. In the Belgian legal order, therefore, that area does not exist de facto, which is the tricky element. Therefore, the area is not included in the current Marine Plan nor is the Royal Decree of 2016 on the management of marine protected areas applicable. Indeed, the area is no longer de facto covered by that category. However, the area is on the European list of sites of Community interest. We are therefore also obliged to include it in the national legal order. We are therefore having a discussion there with the European Commission. We are also having a lot of discussions with the European Commission. We are looking for different ways of resolving this, in order to meet these European requirements, but also to respect the national legal order. We're a little between ship and shore. The point is that we are in full consultation with the European Commission. Only after the area has been included in the MRP and the Royal Decree has been designated will conservation objectives and management plans be established. We therefore need to bring this discussion to a successful conclusion with the European Commission. The introduction of fisheries restrictive measures is a very complex and challenging situation, with the Belgian MRP process and the procedures of the Common Fisheries Policy having to be aligned. That's not always obvious. The interaction between these two procedures is necessary, but will also enable us to use the review of the MRP to use some of the experience we now have to explore how we can improve coordination between procedures. The fishing restrictions in the Marine Spatial Plan are also designed to contribute to the objectives of the Marine Strategy Framework Directive. In this respect, I believe that we have taken account of our Natura 2000 commitments. The current management plans therefore support the fishing restrictions contained in the current MRP. We have therefore not proposed any new fisheries measures. As we pointed out during the negotiations, the enforcement of these measures is a shared responsibility between, on the one hand, the Flemish Maritime Fisheries Service and, on the other hand, the Marine Environment Federal Service. There, too, there is a need for good coordination.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic653x.u20	Thank you very much for that clear answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic653x.u21	Madam President, Mr Secretary of State, there is a lot going on in the water sports sector, which is why I have tabled a whole series of questions for clarification. The 3-4 beaufort rule for small recreational craft at sea is considered too restrictive by the sector. For someone from the coast 3-4 is a slight breeze, not impressive. Rumor has it you'd do something about that. Maybe it's necessary to get that rumor out of the way. Do you really intend to relax that regulation? If so, when can this relaxation be expected?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic653x.u22	Madam President, Mrs Dumery, I can understand these questions from the sector. The 3-4 beaufort rule indeed limits people in practicing their hobby. I announced in February that I gave the official launch for the revision of the legislation on pleasure boating. At that time, I explained the preparatory work to organise this participation in a good way and to ask the public and the public partners to come up with good new legislation. Much of that work has already been done within the federal consultation platform for pleasure shipping. The representatives, my administration, the pleasure industry and various associations from both the Flemish and French parts have participated. Those proposals were published on the FPS website in February, and the entire sector was given the opportunity to express its opinion on them at that time. More than 1 600 forms have been received. We still have some work to process and follow up on. Now other partners are also contacted to give word and reply. The trajectory we are going to follow is very clear. This beaufort issue is one of the identified bottlenecks that was questioned during the survey. Some believe that the rule is best maintained from a safety point of view. Others think that freedom should be given priority, that there should be more room for manoeuvre. Those pros and cons will be weighed, but this rule can be relaxed, so that vessels of less than six metres will also have to be included in the major revision of the legislation planned for spring 2018. That is the current state of affairs. We have to weigh everything, but we have already introduced a relaxation for surf sports, so we need to be able to make arrangements for relaxation here too.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic653x.u23	Madam President, Mr Secretary of State, thank you for your reply. It's a yes and a no. The choices have yet to be made. I hear in your undertones that there will be a more liberal understanding, that the freedom of use of the sea may well be reflected in the choice that will be made. I am not a liberal myself, but I can support the idea that there should be a relaxation for smaller recreational craft.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic653x.u24	Madam President, Mr Secretary of State, this is about the demarcation between commercial and non-commercial recreational craft. In practice, it does not appear to be so clear what is actually meant by commercial and non-commercial. Do you intend to amend the existing rules in order to clarify them? If so, when can this be expected?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic653x.u25	All this confusion! We're gonna try to fix that. Today the legislation clearly defines the distinction between non-commercial and commercial flag letters. It has been referred to as one of the bottlenecks, points of discussion. The surveys have also shown very clearly that this needs to be clarified for pleasure boating. We will clarify this in the new legislation that I hope to be able to propose in the beginning of next year.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic653x.u26	We can't expect this before the summer?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic653x.u27	I think we should treat this as a package. I like to think of the whole story of pleasure sailing as a package. Several bottlenecks have emerged from the surveys. The consultation itself has also raised several issues. At the time that we made that publication in February and then asked the public, we noticed that there were effective bottlenecks and that a number of bottlenecks were added. I would like to deal with this as a package so that we can offer stability, legal certainty and clarity to the whole sector. This seems more appropriate to me than to change small things now on the left and right. If we change little things, things may not be clear right away and things get mixed up. I think we should make a package out of it. This may cost us a summer, but on the other hand it is suddenly clear for the years to come that we must stick to. This will enable us to prepare ourselves, if necessary, for the new legislation.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic653x.u28	I thank the Secretary of State for his reply. I am not trying to pressure you to bring legislation to Parliament faster.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic653x.u29	Mr Secretary of State, I am likely to raise another problem here. In order to obtain a boating license, the pleasure boater has to perform several tests. The sector does not understand that the emphasis is now placed more on the theoretical than on the practical test, while the practical test, especially for pleasure shipping, should prevail here. What practical tests are being conducted at the moment? Do you see any possibilities to expand it? If so, how do you see it in concrete terms? Do you also apply the reform, which could be proposed, to the theoretical examination? When can we expect reforms, if you decide to do so?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic653x.u30	To obtain a limited and general driving licence, a limited practical experience is sufficient. One has to travel twelve hours with someone with experience, or one has to have six hours of practical experience with a sailing school. That is not a real test, but one has to prove that one has a little experience. For the future, we have considered different reflections that have emerged from the discussion in the federal consultation platform. One of them was a training course at an approved sailing school, after which the sailing school issues a certificate confirming that the candidate has sufficient experience. An alternative was to acquire the practical experience on their own initiative and then take a practical test for an examination jury appointed by the Minister. Furthermore, we could also make a distinction between sailing on motorbike and sailing. That is also an enlargement that we are considering. In any case, there is the proposal, in the context of the revision of the legislation on pleasure shipping, to modernise a full learning programme and to build up it in a modular way, so that the candidate can carry out different tests at different times at his own pace. That would be a very accessible and simple modular system. The knowledge needed to obtain the successive boatmasters' certificates would then be cumulative. We do not have to repeat the tests every time, but one can build them up nicely, depending on the necessary experience. We would also like to review this aspect in the light of the review of the legislation on pleasure shipping by 2018.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic653x.u31	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for the answer. The question is important, because it concerns safety, as is the case with driving licences on the road. We want everyone to move as safely as possible in traffic and have received a driving licence after a good education. We must now wait until 2018. I'm gonna have to be patient. That is a very important element to take on board. Everyone can be given access to pleasure boating, but only after the necessary training for safety.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic653x.u32	Is it true, Mr Secretary of State, that there is a need to register twice for pleasure sailing, both for inland waterways and at sea? Will that obligation be retained? In the context of administrative simplification, I wonder whether it would not be possible to limit this to one registration document per pleasure boat.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic653x.u33	That's right, you actually need two registrations. At sea, a flag letter is needed, and on inland waterways there is evidence of immatriculation. That's actually unnecessary and complex. We have therefore promised to work towards administrative simplification in this area. I have already said that I want a document which is valid both on inland waterways and at sea. That too will be regulated in the legislation on pleasure shipping of 2018.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic653x.u34	So that's going to be a giant law on pleasure shipping. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic653x.u35	Next time, we can put points 1, 2 and 3 together in questions!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic653x.u36	Twenty-seven different laws must also be reviewed. Everything will be gathered. I think it is easier to settle everything at once, so that it is clear to the sector and to everyone.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic653x.u37	So, everything will be settled for 2018.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic653x.u38	Before the election!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic653x.u39	Who cares?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic653x.u40	Mr Secretary of State, the question is about communication on the new RB on branding sports. Athletes are still confused as to which sports are allowed and which are not per swell zone in the different coastal municipalities. Have you been informed that there is confusion about this? I hear all kinds of things blowing in our ears, but that may not get over the Scheldt to you. Apparently there is this confusion. Is that due to the KB? Should there be clearer communication? Who's gonna do that? Each municipality has its own insertion areas, plans and communication methods. Does it need to be centralised? Is that from you? Do you expect the municipalities to do that? How are we going to deal with this confusion?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic653x.u41	The Scheldt Water flows naturally towards the sea and does not come back. It'll come back a little bit, but maybe not far enough. We asked the federations and the administration about this and they didn't notice us. There have been several initiatives to address communication properly. We have developed and distributed a flyer through various agencies and organisations. The FPS Mobility created a specific web page to collect all information about branding sports. That link was clearly distributed to all federations and hopefully also to their members. There was also an overview of the insertion zones per municipality. In principle, therefore, it is not necessary to communicate municipality by municipality: it was clearly regulated online. The Flemish administrations have communicated on their websites in the same way, so we thought we had done quite well. With the new water sports season starting, we will provide an additional communication round. Hopefully this will remove the confusion and people will find the available information online.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic653x.u42	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic653x.u43	Madam President, thank you for adding this question to this committee. It is simply efficient that we do not have to go to different committee meetings to discuss oral questions. Moreover, I believe that this question belongs in the Committee on Health. Mr Secretary of State, I would also like to thank you for answering this question. My question concerns the new legislation on pleasure shipping. You have already announced new legislation in this regard. I would like to point out a problem of education. You may be aware that teachers of sports federations are obliged to have a STCW licence, even if they are sports clubs with a non-profit organisation structure. This also brings us back to the problem we discussed in a previous question, about whether or not commercial activities. We can indeed wait until 2018 and leave the problem unsolved until then. The sports clubs, however, do not benefit from this. They now learn that there may be a punishment from the FOD if they do not comply with the rules. Moreover, I think it is very important that I should use the word 'punitive' for this sector, but that is how the sector takes it. Mr. Secretary of State, did you know about that punishment? Do you know the number of punishments? I suspect that with a minor change by royal decree it can be ensured that those teachers in the sports federations, including in an association structure, do not need a STCW licence. Are you planning on doing that? In other words, are you prepared to take that part of your overall plan for pleasure sailing, which you are currently working on? If that's what you're planning, do you have a timing for that? Or are you suggesting something else to solve that problem right now?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic653x.u44	Thank you for this question. At present, no targeted inspections are being carried out by the Maritime DG to ensure compliance by sports clubs. No infringements have been detected so far. For any infringements detected by the Shipping Police, please address the question best to the Minister of the Interior. He may have more information about that. In any case, we have no knowledge of this. I do agree with you that the STCW obligations for certain types of teachers are currently too complex. It would therefore not be correct to take action against it now, given that complexity. However, I have included the plan to take this into account in the review of legislation on pleasure craft. The federal consultation platform's proposal was to replace the STCW licence with the yachtman licence if the vessel remains in Belgian territorial waters, and to make this licence necessary on the basis of the current legislation, to which we cannot change anything. The content of training and so on is still under discussion. I do not think it would be a good solution to work quickly through a royal decision. The entry into force will be more or less parallel to the legislative initiative. I therefore believe that we should see the package as a whole again. We know from the discussions we have had with the sector what the problem is. We'll take care of it. However, there are currently no targeted inspections at sports clubs. There is a status quo, and we will address the problem more thoroughly when reviewing the whole of the legislation.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic653x.u45	Mr Secretary of State, I think your answer is very reassuring for everyone who is in that situation. It is now sometimes felt that certain inspectors dare to threaten checks, but your answer clearly shows that there will be no targeted actions and that there is no intention of punishing people in this situation. You said there will be a solution. I have not heard the word 'tolerance policy', but I think I understand from your answer that it is not intended to take action now against people who are not eligible for that licence.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic653x.u46	Mr. Secretary of State, on his blog, Le Monde, on 23 March, referred to an interesting topic relating to the future of our planet's oceans and seas, and more specifically to the high seas. The Montego Bay Convention signed by the United Nations in 1982 is now out of date because it does not address the problem of the high seas, which was still unexplored scientifically at the time. The non-regulation of this area constitutes a huge legal vacuum and threatens the entire planet de facto. Indeed, the preservation of the ocean is a central element in our efforts to mitigate climate change, as it is useful for the production of oxygen on earth and contains a rich biodiversity. That is why there is a need for a legal framework to protect our oceans and ensure that pollution or intensive or illegal fishing activities cannot take place there. Mr Secretary of State, in view of the elements I have just mentioned, there seems to be an urgent need to intervene to protect the oceans. What is your view on this issue? Are you in favour of the creation of marine protected areas, in order to regulate the activities that take place within these huge spaces?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic653x.u47	Our country is actively involved in the management of the marine environment, not only in the Belgian part of the North Sea but also internationally. For example, from 27 March to 7 April, we participated in a session of the preparatory committee for the process for the negotiation of new binding international instruments on the conservation and sustainable use of biological diversity beyond national jurisdiction. This is a process that would take place within the United Nations. Among the items on the agenda are marine genetic resources, marine protected areas, environmental impact assessments, capacity development and technology transfer. We participated in four sessions, the last of which will take place in July 2017. We said we were very ambitious. We have been involved in this process since the beginning and have even spoken on behalf of the European Union. Belgium is part of a broad delegation negotiating on behalf of the European Union. We are lead negotiator for the Marine Protected Areas (MPA) portion. For the content, you are right, at the moment, we do not have the capacity to establish MPAs on the high seas, for legal reasons. But we called for an ambitious, clear and robust procedure in the future treaty for identifying, proposing and managing the MPA based on the precautionary approach, the ecosystem approach, and above all on science. I am convinced that without MPA on the high seas, it is impossible to achieve various commitments that we have undertaken, such as the sustainable development goals, the biodiversity objectives or the Convention on Biological Diversity. The MPAs created for the future instrument will not be able to remain dead letter. We must create the necessary instrument to be able to fulfil all the commitments we have made in this regard, including at the international level. In addition, Belgium has launched a procedure for the creation of common marine reserves, which are MPAs found in several Member States. For me, a trained scientist, science is unanimous: in some situations, the creation of marine reserves is the only way to offer the ecosystem the opportunity to rebuild and allow resilience against the sometimes disastrous effects of climate change. We are therefore also a pilot country for these processes at the international level. In this context, in cooperation with the Intergovernmental Oceanographic Commission of UNESCO, we organized a workshop on capacity-building for these processes, specifically for small island States particularly affected by environmental degradation. As far as the negotiations are concerned, these are international discussions. Therefore, it takes a little time. After the fourth session of the PrepCom (Preparatory Committee), the UN General Assembly will have to vote on a resolution in favour of the opening of a diplomatic or intergovernmental conference to finalize and adopt the text of the future treaty itself. I believe that Belgium has always played and will continue to play a leading role in this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic653x.u48	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for your answer. This one reassures me in the sense that you say that you are well aware of the problem and that you want to fight it. I have heard you use the word "ambitious" several times and I encourage you to continue on that path. I will certainly come back after July 2017 to find out where this has led us. I have no doubt that the scientist that you have been and that you are always will be very attentive to this problem.
