ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic609x.u1	Madam President, Deputy Prime Minister, the January press echoed the federal police's use of two drones from the Belgian Institute for Road Safety (IBSR) to examine motorway accidents more quickly and more precisely. The aim is to clear the affected axes in a much more appropriate time frame and at the same time reduce traffic congestion and the risk of over-accident in both directions. Since 1 January 2010, the Federal Road Police of Antwerp has used 2D photogrammetry and, recently, also in 3D in the event of accidents on the motorway network. The purpose of this process is to process police findings more quickly, as they are of better quality and able to accurately determine the positions of vehicles and traces by the nearest centimeter. According to the IBSR, the use of the "hypermodern drones" will allow the federal police, once on site, to fly over the entire site in a few minutes and pick up everything without having to take any further measurements. Therefore, Minister, I would like to ask you the following questions. Is there a legal framework, adapted for police purposes, for the use of drones? If so, what does it foresee? If not, are you in favour of introducing regulations and, if so, can you specify their content and timetable? How many drones, in total, does the federal police have? Are you considering purchasing new devices and, if so, can you provide more information on the number, type of devices and cost of these devices? What is the cost of this use? What will be the implications for our daily lives? Is the material secure enough for use in this context? How is the risk of privacy violations by such equipment taken into account?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic609x.u2	Mr Kir, the Royal Decree of 10 April 2016 on the use of remotely piloted aircraft in Belgian airspace provides for an exception for State operators such as the police. The Royal Decree is therefore not applicable to police aircraft or other rescue services. For this reason, the federal police took the initiative, together with the Home SPF, to create regulations in the form of a ministerial circular. The drafting of these regulations is under way. It is too early to go into detail on the content but the royal decree for commercial use will broadly correspond to this circular. This will depend on the training of pilots, the register for police drones, etc. The circular is expected to be finalized in the summer of this year. With regard to your second question, the Federal Police Air Support Directorate currently has two drones, one of which is equipped with a day camera. A third drone with an infrared camera (which can therefore be used at night and day) has been ordered and will be delivered within a few months. The special units of the Federal Police also have a drone used in the fight against terrorism and organised crime. Some units of the road police, the federal police (e.g. Antwerp and East Flanders) obtained a drone from the Belgian Institute for Road Safety. These drones must be used to detect serious accidents on the highway thanks to software that will allow photogrammetry to be applied. All drones the federal police are multicopters, i.e. they have six to eight propellers. The cost of a device varies according to its possibilities: between 30 and 70 000 euros. It is essentially the payload, the equipment, that determines the price. With regard to your last question, it is still too early to provide you with details of the cost per flight hour of using a drone. For some missions, it goes without saying that drones can replace conventional air support, which means a huge economy. The implications for the daily lives of citizens will not be greater than for other police means. The equipment is very secure. This is one of the reasons why the federal police use only multicopters with at least six propellers, which means that the machine remains stable if one or two engines fail. As far as the protection of privacy is concerned, the law on the police function is of course applicable. In addition, the camera law is only applicable if the camera that equips the drone is placed for surveillance and control purposes. Only the police are authorized to use mobile surveillance cameras.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic609x.u3	Madam President, I would like to thank the Minister for his comprehensive answers. I would like to go back to one point he did not answer: the risk of privacy being violated by this kind of device. Minister, I would like to have your assessment on this issue. I understand that a circular will be produced by the end of the year – so you are working on it – but when you talked about a specific drone that is going to fight terrorism – of course it is not necessary to reveal secrets here – I talked a bit about what this device might be. Is this a regular drone? [[Sentiment]] Yeah, but that would be specifically used in this kind of operation, okay.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic609x.u4	It is the police services that determine the use of a drone. As far as privacy is concerned, it is obvious that this type of camera falls under other camera legislation. This legislation determines who can use such an image, for that reason. The same applies to this type of camera.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic609x.u5	That's right. But all the reflections that have been made and all the measures that have been taken have been taken in relation to cameras that are spinning in public space. My question is how far we can film in public space. For example, you can't film people's faces, etc. But here, we're in the gardens. So it will certainly be necessary to add a number of things to the prohibitions to protect people's privacy. The cameras that will be at the back of the buildings will indeed upset the lives of our fellow citizens.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic609x.u6	You're right. I'm reviewing the camera law. This will come before Parliament after the second reading in the government. We will replace the existing law with two laws: the normal camera law and an addition to the laws on integrated police for the use by the police of cameras where we distinguish between mobile and static cameras as well as drones.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic609x.u7	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic609x.u8	So don't sit in the jacuzzi in the garden, because you will be found.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic609x.u9	Minister, local police officers from various police areas around Brussels have been saying that their areas have been dwindling for several years with a shortage of men and that there is no prospect of any improvement at all, partly because many, if not all, new agents have been deployed in Brussels for some time in the fight against terrorism. It is very difficult for these zones to continue to ensure basic police care in their area of operation. The problem is that it is not only difficult to recruit the necessary men, there are also other elements that prevent sufficient manpower from getting the work that needs to be done properly. In this context, they cite two issues. Firstly, the maximum number of night hours they are allowed to perform would legally be 460. In many smaller areas, the number of night patrols is limited to one or two patrols, which limits the possibilities of ensuring safety at night. There are, however, a lot of young agents who would like to do more night work, of course also because they earn a good penny, but they should not do so because of the limit to 460 hours. A number of police chiefs would therefore like to see this hour restriction increased so that agents could perform more night hours if they so wished. Secondly, the forces in the Brussels area who are understaffed could call on the reserve fund of the federal police in Brussels, but since the Channel Plan they can still use an agent, which is often too little. Only the municipalities covered by that plan are now assigned additional staff, often at the expense of the areas around Brussels.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic609x.u10	I also wonder if there's anything wrong with the recruitment of new agents. In your reply to a written question from me, you replied that both the number of candidates and the number of graduates at the police school fell sharply in 2015 compared to previous years. Is it true that almost all the new police officers in Brussels are being deployed in the fight against terrorism? Can you tell me how many new agents were recruited in 2015 and 2016 in Brussels and in the context of the fight against terrorism and how many in the same period in the other police areas? Is it correct that the performance of the night hours is limited? Are you considering doing something about that? Is it true that police areas around Brussels are given far fewer people from the federal police? If so, do you intend to do something about it? Finally, do you confirm the figures from the written question to which I referred? Can you clarify that? Are there any explanations as to why the number of candidates and laureates fell significantly in 2014 and 2015? Do you have any figures for the past year?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic609x.u11	Mrs Pas, the fight against terrorism is a priority for me. That does not mean that there is only an influx of agents and policemen in Brussels. The figures speak for themselves. We will look at the period you are talking about, namely the years 2015 and 2016. Over these two years there was a total influx of 4 113 operational staff in the different police zones. That figure covers all operational degrees and any inflow: mobility, relocation, recruitment, etc. Of those 4 113 staff, 537 went to one of the Brussels police zones, 500 out of 4 000, which is about 13%. Indeterminately, therefore, an important part of the influx goes to the other police areas during the same period. With regard to the specific deployment of police area personnel, I cannot give precise figures for the local police. A fortiori, therefore, I cannot give precise figures on the commitment to the fight against terrorism in the local police. The Chiefs of Staff have a high degree of autonomy in the organisation and operation of their corps. About the specific deployment of their staff, the zones do not communicate with my services. At federal police level, 135 personnel were deployed for the Channel Plan. 422 staff could be deployed to strengthen the priority units, thanks to the interdepartmental appropriations: 301 in 2016 and 121 for the first three months of this year. I cannot, as you can understand, provide more detailed figures within the time limit allowed for an answer to your question. If you would like more detailed figures, I would ask you to ask me a written question, on which we can provide you with all the relevant statistics. I cannot confirm the statement made in your second question. The reduction in the number of night hours is one of the rules governing the organisation of working time which aims to protect and ensure the well-being of police staff. I understand the motivation to perform more night hours. However, police health and their ability to provide quality work must remain our primary concern. Too many night hours over a short period of time, hypothesize the recovery, thereby compromising the proper and efficient functioning of the site. Those restrictions are included in labour law. They are not imposed by specific police legislation or that anymore. Nor are they extended by police legislation. Those rules are there to strike a balance between employability and efficiency, health and all kinds of other things that are close to our hearts. In reply to your third question, I must confess that it is difficult to answer them. What exactly do you mean by police zones around Brussels? In fact, all the police areas are around Brussels. With a precise list of the areas concerned, my services can also give you precise answers. For example, when we look at the police zones of Flemish Brabant, we notice that in the same reference period 2015-2016 384 new infections occur. In addition, the secondments of federal police staff to the police areas of the province. I should also like you to tell me which areas you want to know about. Then we will be happy to give you the details. Finally, I confirm the data in the previous reply. It should be noted that these are police officers. A new recruitment for police officers happens punctually when the reserve list is exhausted. The choice to recruit agents or inspectors belongs to the police college or the police council of a zone. She's not my jurisdiction. Given the low number of new recruitments of police officers in general within the police zones, the reserve lists are currently sufficient to meet the expected recruitment. The recruitment and selection service of the federal police has chosen to be less general when the reserve lists are exhausted and to call for applications per separate police area. With this differentiated approach, we can respond more quickly to the needs of the police area concerned and at the same time select candidates who choose to work in that area. This will also reduce the number of candidates and speed up the completion of the candidates' files. Instead of recruiting generally, we want to work more focused per zone. When I answer for agents here, you know what I'm talking about. Those aren't the policemen in general. Mrs Pas, I would also point out that our police schools are full in 2016 and 2017. We are fully recruiting and training. Further training is also provided. We shall also have inspectors promoted to Chief Inspector and we shall have Chief Inspectors promoted to Commissioner. All training courses are provided. Our police schools are running at full speed. This in itself means limiting the flow: when the school is full, it is full.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic609x.u12	Minister, I have been made quite clear again. As far as my first and third questions are concerned, I will specifically ask for the figures in writing. I also understand that the number of overtime in labour law is limited for health reasons, but the needs of each corps are also different. The signals I received did indeed come from the areas of Flemish Brabant where they apparently need to pull it up. However, I know that my own police force in the Dendermonde police area is doing its best to reduce overtime. So it really depends on the needs of corps to corps. It is logical that the fight against terrorism is your priority, but local forces also have more and more work due, among other things, to the threat of terrorism and, of course, have enough people at their disposal to do the basic police tasks properly. In any case, I will follow it up and get the figures I still need in writing.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic609x.u13	Mr. Top is not here to ask his question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic609x.u14	Mr President, Minister, the European Day of 112, a free European emergency call number, was recently held. In March 2016, a Eurobarometer study revealed that only 27% of EU citizens correctly identified this European emergency call number; a situation that the European Emergency Number Association (EENA) is concerned about coordinating the operation of 112. The advantages of 112 are considerable. This number is available 24 hours a day and 7 days a week. Even in the event of a network breakdown or an exhausted package, it allows you to contact any type of emergency service, such as the UAS, the fire department or the police. In addition, 112 was created to be accessible in the 28 countries of the European Union. It also operates in Norway, Iceland, Israel, Switzerland, some networks in the United States and recently, is also accessible in India. Unfortunately, too few promotion campaigns are carried out on a European scale. There is a lack of a large-scale communication campaign, particularly for young people. Mr Minister, can you tell us more about the statistics on the lack of awareness of number 112 in the European Union? What initiatives are planned for an information campaign for the Belgian population to make this issue known, particularly to young people?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic609x.u15	Mr Blanchart, the European Commission's Eurobarometer 2013 reveals that only 27% of EU citizens know the European emergency number 112 as an emergency number that can be used throughout the European Union. In this study, however, Belgium had a relatively good score as it ranked sixth in the ranking, with 48% of Belgian citizens knowing the number. One year before the Eurobarometer was published, Belgium was awarded the Outstanding Education on 112 Award for actions undertaken in 2011. This award is awarded to organisations that have achieved tangible results in raising citizens' awareness of the fact that the 112 emergency number can be contacted throughout the European Union to request urgent assistance. After 2013, too, my services mobilized to regularly highlight the number 112. In Belgium, we continue to work to make known the 112 and 101 emergency numbers and their correct use. In 2016, emergency call centres 112, 100 and 101 collaborated on the De nodcentrale television programme – on a Flemish channel – which made the call-taker work of the two centres better known to the general public. This year, new episodes of this program will be broadcast on television. In 2016, the administration launched a project to teach target groups of children aged 6 to 12 about the use of emergency number 112. Last year, I myself launched a campaign for children between the ages of 6 and 12, the content of which is as follows: a film entitled Kids 112, teaching material to supplement it with the main information on how children can call this issue – quizzes, role play, etc. - coloring drawings and games. Everything is downloadable and usable free of charge via the "Kids" page of the website www.112.be. The distribution of the film and teaching material took place after the campaign was announced at a press conference last June. At the end of the year, the various Ministers of Education distributed teaching materials to all primary schools in the country's various educational networks. The Federal Truck went to three primary schools to explain to students - using film, games, photomatons, etc. - how they should contact 112. This bus will travel this spring again to a primary school in each of the provinces. From 8 to 14 February, an abbreviated version of the movie Kids 112 was released prior to the screening of each family film in each Kinepolis complex. On February 11, European Day of 112, my services showed the film throughout the day and distributed gadgets in the Kinepolis of Braine-l'Alleud and Antwerp. On the same date, they broadcast the film on social media, local authorities and relief services, as well as via an advert on Facebook. This day resulted in the following results. First, 2,175 people visited the site. The majority of them, almost two-thirds, came from social media. This represents an 88% increase compared to February 11, 2014, where only partner collaboration was requested, and 18% compared to February 11, 2016, where only one Facebook ad was used. The Kids page of the website was the most visited with 67.81% of page displays. The movie Kids 112 has been viewed 1,627 times via the website and YouTube. Through social media, on February 11, Facebook post with the movie Kids 112 reached a total of 221,831 people via Facebook 112 and 6,119 people clicked on the post. 9,477 people watched more than 30 seconds of the film, of which 1,840 viewed at least 95% of the film. A total of 147 reactions were posted on Facebook. The post has been "liked" 2,340 times and shared 1,926 times. The tweet has been seen 10,346 times and the tweet of the European Day of 112 has been retweeted 353 times. The film has been viewed or partially viewed by parents of children aged 6 to 12, all for a total of 100 euros via Facebook. There are three different numbers in Belgium and we are looking to get to the single number 112. This will further improve the knowledge and use of this number.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic609x.u16	Thank you, Minister. We commend the efforts that have been made in this area. Perhaps it is worth mentioning a little more that the results are good in Belgium. This will advertise number 112 at the same time. Continue to raise awareness among young people and use social networks. These are methods that are not very expensive and will be used more and more.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic609x.u17	Debates of the European Parliament 16717 of myself I have converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic609x.u18	Mr President, Mr Deputy Prime Minister, a year ago, following the murder of a health professional who had greatly moved public opinion, I had the opportunity to discuss with you the situation of these doctors who are regularly victims of violence in their office or in the context of external services. This problem also concerns many health actors, since, for example, nurses or physiotherapists are unfortunately not spared by these unacceptable behaviours. In this regard, you mentioned the launch of a test phase for an application related to the 112-101 call, which had been developed by SA ASTRID. I quote: "These technical tests are very important. We must ensure that any request for aid is correctly relayed to the power station." Furthermore, with regard to the doctors' request for the Inland FPS to produce new basic advice for their security, you said that this request could take shape within the framework of the platform for consultation with organisations representing SMEs and independents. So, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, I would like answers to the following questions. With the time and information at your disposal, can you take stock of the test phase of the application mentioned above? Have the results been satisfactory? What about the state of play of the discussions in the above-mentioned consultation platform? Have you led to new ways to improve the safety of physicians? If so, could you provide us with an outline?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic609x.u19	Mr Calomne, the application has been internally tested by dispatch operators and police officers. No significant problems were identified. Operators are currently trained and application 112-101 BE will be operational at the beginning of April this year. This application will not be limited to a specific target group but can be used by anyone with an android smartphone or iPhone. An urgent call made via this application therefore has advantages for all users. In particular, it allows automatic notification of the appellant's location and identity. The application is not intended for doctors who are in danger, but they can use it, like any citizen, to make an emergency call. The application is also equipped with a real time text chat feature that is activated by the operator of an emergency call centre. This chat function is only activated if voice communication is not possible. This cat is therefore mainly intended for people who are deaf, hard of hearing and with speech disorders, but it can also be used in situations where people are unable to speak, for example because there is too much noise, poor voice connection, etc. The platform implements the proposals made in the context of securing medical practice. Regular exchanges between my services and the various bodies of this working group – these are the associations of general practitioners, the National Council of the Order of Physicians, Praag, etc. - updated the digital brochure entitled "Safe medical practice: a few tips to secure your working environment". This brochure is in the final stages and will be distributed in the course of the year. It provides targeted and up-to-date information on situational prevention to general practitioners during their various professional activities. Furthermore, in order to be able to become aware of this phenomenon and to intervene effectively on the ground, it is essential that doctors do not hesitate to report incidents to the ordinary and police authorities. My services have started a discussion with these different stakeholders in order to resolve certain constraints related to the specific ethical and legal aspects of the medical profession.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic609x.u20	I would like to thank the Deputy Prime Minister for his various elements of response which are encouraging and which will undoubtedly help, in part, to solve this problem, which is still important for the medical profession for which he remains a concern, since it is obviously his safety. I also find it important that it can make concrete progress, with its own measures.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic609x.u21	Mr President, Minister, as you know, the Technical and Scientific Police (PTS) currently consists of 14 laboratories, spread over 26 sites, spread over the 14 judicial districts, plus a central laboratory at the DJT, the central unit. Investigators working in these laboratories are considered an integral part of the investigation team, from the crime scene to the packaging of traces after detection and identification work. Recently, it has been decided at European level that police laboratories should be accredited so that they can all work according to the same standards and deliver results of similar quality. Last November, I was already asking you about this case and you confirmed that two scenarios were under consideration: either 5 sites to be accredited (one per court of appeal) or 14 sites (one per judicial district). At the time, I was already warning you of concerns that came back to me from the ground. The scenario with only 5 accredited sites would see a significant separation of activities between accredited and non-accredited laboratories and a potential outsourcing of analyses to private laboratories. In addition, the 14-site scenario is supported by the College of Attorneys General, the King's Council of Prosecutors and provincial governors. Finally, at the level of budgetary impact, which must obviously be taken into account, the scenario involving 14 sites is also more interesting in the medium term; the five-site scenario leads to many commitments. On February 15, the press announced that you were opting for the five-site scenario, which leads me to ask you the following questions. What are the priority factors that have been taken into account in making this choice? Do you intend to engage an additional 70 people to operate these 5 sites optimally? Here I quote a figure taken from police officers, actors in the field and trade unions in particular. Otherwise, do you intend to hire additional people and how many? What other investments do you intend to make on these 5 sites? What will become of the other sites and the people who work there? Furthermore, why did you not take into account the advice of the College of Attorneys General, the Council of King's Prosecutors and provincial governors? Have you consulted them? Finally, it is also up to us that on the five sites selected, only the Brussels one will be accredited, the other four becoming mere front offices. Do you confirm this information?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic609x.u22	Minister, the technical and scientific police have decided to activate their strike notice and are threatening to launch several new actions within the next few days. The cause? Again and again the lack of staff and financial resources. Indeed, in order for the technical and scientific police to function properly, it is estimated that at least 700 people will be required. At present, however, there are only 400 staff members in the service. In addition, there are noises that the number of laboratories would increase from 23 at present to 5 for the whole territory of Belgium. Another possible scenario would be to remove all police laboratories to entrust the analyses to private, Belgian or foreign laboratories. Minister, will you finally listen to the grunt of the unions and hire staff? What scenario are you heading for with regard to laboratories? Is it true that a decrease in the number of laboratories is under consideration? What about the rumor of total suppression for the benefit of the private sector?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic609x.u23	Colleagues, Mr Vanden Burre, in answer to your first question: this choice has been made taking into account the numerous analyses that have been carried out for many months in this dossier, with the main objective of improving the quality of the processes currently in use in technical and scientific police laboratories (PTS). Other aspects have also been taken into account to base this decision, such as the capacity of the PTS laboratories, logistics, infrastructure and certainly the budget. Moreover, for a country with a small area, such as Belgium, in comparison with larger countries, it goes without saying that an organisation made up of five accredited laboratories is realistic in carrying out these tasks. In answer to your second question: the organic table of technical and scientific police laboratories has 397 jobs, of which 327 are currently occupied. The five-site scenario, as developed by the federal police, requires an increase of 43 jobs, not 70. This issue is obviously part of a more comprehensive capacity-building discussion of the federal police and still depends on the practical implementation of the basic decision. In answer to your third question: for each site to be accredited, improvements will be necessary, both in terms of infrastructure and logistics. These adjustments will now be clearly defined and planned. For your fourth question, which is the same as Mrs Ben Hamou's second question: the decision to accredit five technical and scientific police laboratories means that fingerprint analysis and, to some extent, certain DNA-related processes will be carried out exclusively at these five sites. With regard to the operation to gradually reduce the number of back offices to five, the implementation of accreditation and the organisation of front offices focused on a customer service of proximity, the Federal Police will develop a vision and plan to be submitted to the two line ministers. An outsourcing of the Federal Judicial Police's laboratory activities to the private sector is therefore not on the agenda. In answer to your fifth question, this decision was taken in full consultation with my colleague the Minister of Justice. We have, of course, taken note of the views of the various partners who have expressed themselves in this matter, while bearing in mind our willingness to improve quality processes in technical and scientific police laboratories and to achieve the accreditation required by Europe. The decision to accredit five sites is a good realistic compromise between this much sought-after quality and the means necessary to meet the requirements of ISO 17025. Mrs Ben Hamou, with regard to your first question, two trainings of senior inspectors specializing in technical and scientific police laboratories are under way. The first promotion ends in May of this year with the arrival of eight people in the police laboratories. The second promotion began at the end of 2016 and will end in May 2018; 20 people are currently attending the second training course. In addition, a second external recruitment of senior specialized inspectors for police laboratories will be organized as early as next March. Finally, the federal police will analyse the possibility of recruiting inspectors from the basic framework for police laboratories through the next mobilitys.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic609x.u24	Minister, thank you for your answers. There are two very important elements in relation to what belongs to us on the ground. There are many concerns about this reform; I do not teach you anything. There's recruitment first. You cite 40 additional jobs to operate these five sites; this was not reflected in the latest press articles. It is important that we can implement these recruitments and we will be careful to do so. The same applies to the necessary adjustments and investments. In the first instance, this did not appear clearly in the communication, which creates a lot of uncertainty in the head of the workers concerned. You're talking front office and back office. According to my information, it is not certain that the five sites would be accredited. I was told of a scenario where only Brussels would be accredited. If I understand correctly, this will not be the case and the five sites will be accredited. We will follow this file carefully.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic609x.u25	Minister, thank you for this comprehensive response. I can hear the arguments that you put forward. I believe, however, that you are making decisions that will considerably weaken the federal police and it is ultimately the victims who will pay the price of your reform, because by reducing the number of labs and the staff, you are undermining the working conditions but also the good continuity of the investigations.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic609x.u26	Question No 16765 by Mrs Nawal Ben Hamou is transformed into a written question. I come to Mr Thiébaut's many questions. Mr Thiébaut, I have the impression that you are trying to break the record for oral questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic609x.u27	No, it would be Jean-Marc Nollet. If you wish, Mr President, two colleagues would like to ask their attached questions which were supposed to be asked after mine. I don't mind if they ask them now, otherwise they'll have to wait a very long time.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic609x.u28	That's very kind of you. I have no objection to that.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic609x.u29	Minister, last September, I was already asking you about the first numerical results of the Canal Plan in Molenbeek, which you announced, and about the scale of the home checks and the ASBLs. In concrete terms, 5,073 housing units were visited during the first six months. This means that 12,444 people were checked, or about 12 per cent of the population of the municipality. As regards the associations, of the 1,571 ASBLs domiciled in Molenbeek, according to the Banque-Carrefour, 450 were selected for in-depth monitoring – and were therefore visited. Of these 450, 87 are now dissolved, without us knowing exactly why. Finally, 26 sites (including three mosques) were closed for urban planning reasons and 91 associations were declared suspicious. Some are for terrorist financing or money laundering. It is, of course, quite normal that in this case they should be closed. It is estimated that about 30 per cent of the non-profit organizations registered in Molenbeek were controlled in the context of the fight against terrorism. In addition, on 7 February, the members of the working group of the Molenbeek Social Cohesion Programme, bringing together some 40 participants from local associations, moved in a letter addressed to the Brussels and Molenbeek authorities – and which you also received – because the law enforcement forces sometimes burst into their premises "in a clumsy way" to file a letter indicating the need to provide a whole series of administrative documents (statuts, list of staff, volunteers, accounting records, etc.).). Similarly, it is alleged that uniformed police officers interfere with associations in an inappropriate manner, disrupting work and intimidating users and staff. The associations denounce a real stigmatization of them and have the impression that they are continually suspected of social fraud, but also of hiding in their activities radicalised young people or future terrorists. Finally, they consider these measures to be unfair and totally unjustified and specify that they are already controlled by their supervisory authorities, which are the guarantors of the use of public funds and of the relevance of the actions undertaken. In their view, the measures taken within the framework of the Canal Plan appear to be "a willingness to intimidate rather than a measure to effectively combat terrorism". Although the words are different from those I used in committee and in plenary last November, the findings are the same with regard to the feeling of harassment and even stigma that the Canal Plan measures, in particular in Molenbeek, can create. Minister, how many Molenbeek-based NPAs have been monitored under the Pan Canal to date? On what basis were they selected? Have they undergone thorough control? Are these administrative controls carried out part of the Belfi Plan (launched in 2014 to combat social fraud) or the Canal Plan to Combat Terrorism? What do you intend to respond to this collective representative of the Molenbeek community networks? Do you understand their concerns? Do you feel that this type of drift is conducive to building confidence and serenity? Social actors must be partners in the fight against terrorism, particularly in Molenbeek. They want to be, and we also need to send them the right signals. Do you intend to extend this type of control to other municipalities targeted by the Canal Plan?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic609x.u30	Minister, as part of the Canal Plan, police controls have increased in hundreds of ASBLs in Molenbeek. Fighting fictive domiciliations, unmasking bogus associations or appearings for illegal activities are laudable objectives of the Canal Plan. But according to the ASBL, it seems that the police sometimes go too far. Indeed, the police are said to have begun these controls of the vast associative fabric Molenbeekois without always doing in lace. Many of these associations are dependent on subsidising powers and guardianship powers, so these controls seem unjustified for most of them. We have the impression that the police are working at the bazooka when we need to target the problem. These associations feel stigmatized and pointed out as alleged perpetrators of social fraud or the concealment of radicalised young people, while they have been providing quality work for the benefit of young people for many years. Minister, can you tell us more about how the controls were conducted by the police forces? On the basis of what criteria are controls carried out within associations, since some recognised and subsidized associations have been targeted and monitored? What answer are you going to give to associations that consider these controls to go too far? Are any initiatives in this area taken to avoid abuse of controls?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic609x.u31	Non-profit associations in the territory of the Brussels-West Police Area are subject to an inventory and verification under the Canal Plan. The plan focuses on a comprehensive approach to the phenomena of radicalism, extremism, violence and terrorism, as well as on an approach to phenomena that can support this problem, such as trafficking in arms and drugs, false documents, the illegal economy, social or fiscal fraud. However, the plan does not intend to stigmatize a municipality, certain demographic groups or associations. Verification of an association may take two different forms in the territory of the Brussels-West police zone. On the one hand, all associations in its territory are subject to administrative control by the local police zone, in the framework of an inventory project and, on the other hand, associations may be subject to judicial review from a multidisciplinary perspective, in the framework of the Belfi project or of an investigation carried out by the local research section, if there are links relating to criminal activities. I would now like to make a presentation on the difference between the two forms of verification and the concrete results. During an administrative verification by the local police zone as part of the inventory project, in a first phase, all associations in the territory of the police zone are subject to verification at the level of the Banque-Carrefour des Entreprises (BCE). In a second phase, they will be visited by two specialized investigators dressed in civilian costumes. This is the ECOSOC service. They shall provide the person in charge present with a written questionnaire to examine the compliance of the association with the legislation relating to non-profit organisations. In this regard, associations will never be asked to discontinue or stop their ongoing activities. If no official is on site, the questionnaire will be placed in the association's mailbox. In the absence of an official indication of the association at the address concerned and in the absence of a responsible official, the association may be regarded as fictitious. At the request of the Public Prosecutor's Office, a report will be drawn up each time in such a case for the fact that it is an ASBL registered at a fictitious address and the de-listing procedure at the Banque-Carrefour des Entreprises will be launched. During the past year, the following audits were conducted. Here I have a table of figures for the five communes in the area - not only Molenbeek but the Brussels-West area - as well as for the different categories. For all five municipalities, 3 308 ASBLs are controlled at the ECB level, 1 303 ASBLs are subject to ECOSOC administrative control on the spot, 586 ASBLs with shadow seat are subject to a PV and the cancellation procedure is initiated and 191 ASBLs are dissolved in advance. The figures per municipality are given in the document at your disposal. Within the framework of the legislation on non-profit organisations, the local police zone is competent to verify the conformity of associations in its territory. In this case, it is not a form of abuse of authority but a simple application of the existing legal framework. The procedure has been developed in consultation with the Labour Auditor, the King's Prosecutor and the Brussels Attorney General and its legality has been verified by the SPF Justice. The information requested is always limited to the obligations that associations must comply with under the legislation on non-profit organisations. In particular, lists of executive members and actual members will be requested but never lists of persons who visit associations. The bank account number of the organizations will be requested but never the financial statements of the organizations' expenditures. The police zone points out that all NSOs in its territory are subject to the inventory project and a subsequent on-site visit. Controls are not limited to the municipality of Molenbeek-Saint-Jean, non-municipal or non-subsidized associations, or to associations with a philosophical, religious or cultural framework. It should be noted, however, that there has been some movement among the subsidized associations in these municipalities. This is why the municipality of Molenbeek-Saint-Jean decided, in collaboration with the police zone, to enter into a dialogue with these associations in order to eliminate the existing concern. Judicial review takes place when an association is probably linked to the phenomenon of violent radicalism, extremism and terrorism or one of the above phenomena. Among the 3,308 associations that have been inventoried in the territory of the police zone, there are 144 associations where one or more members of government have such a link; 74 associations have a link with radicalism, extremism or terrorism. Eight associations have links to arms trafficking; 26 associations have links to drug offences; and 36 associations have links to various criminal activities. These associations are monitored in the framework of the Belfi project under the direction of the Attorney General in relation to links with radicalism, extremism or terrorism and a judicial investigation by a section specializing in local research on support phenomena. The 37 associations that have already been monitored under the Belfi project have been subject to multidisciplinary monitoring by the federal police and the local police, in collaboration with the municipal and social inspection services. This is an administrative, judicial, social, fiscal, financial, urban inspection, compliance with security requirements, etc. In this regard, it has always been ensured that the checks are carried out at the time when no activity was taking place in the association. However, some associations have been closed down following the finding of an offence and on the basis of a judicial or administrative mandate. This was already the case for seven associations controlled under the Belfi project and for 23 associations visited by the local Research. To answer your question about the initiatives in this area in order to avoid abuse of controls, no initiative is taken since no abuse has been reported.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic609x.u32	Mr President, I thank the Minister for his long and detailed response. We will refer to all the figures you will make available in the tables. Although no abuse is officially reported, I believe it is important to respond to associations and to have a dialogue. I want to challenge you to ensure that there is no stigma or prejudice over the control of any association in any municipality. But to do this, we need to engage in a dialogue with them to explain that this is not the case and explain the work to them. I guess it's done, but as a follow-up to the letter that was sent, public reactions are being heard. It is important to answer them even if no action has been taken to avoid abuses since you do not recognize them. All right! We take note of that. But you still have to answer them, regardless of whether you or your representatives, because they are partners and not enemies or opponents, whether they are fighting terrorism or preventing and improving living together in Brussels or elsewhere. For us, it is fundamental that these associations do not feel fingered, guilty before the hour because we would destroy all the work of associations on the ground, which would be catastrophic for our living together, a possibility that we strongly reject. We will remain very attentive and ask you to engage in serious dialogue with them.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic609x.u33	Minister, thank you for your long and precise answers. I think the stakes are high. Of course, the police must intervene. The situation is serious. Radicalization isn't funny. We must carry the iron where it is necessary, but without stigmatizing and – I join my colleague – starting a dialogue in parallel. We must show that we can and must be firm, but without stigmatizing, which would have the perverse effect of enabling them to play martyrs. You know that when an individual is perceived as martyred and stigmatized, it only amplifies phenomena. This could have the perverse effect of amplifying the phenomenon of radicalization. I know it's a difficult mission, minister. It is necessary to blow both the warm and the cold, to avoid stigmatizing and communicating a maximum. Communicate what you do and why you do it! The stakes are high, but we must move forward with caution and firmness. Good luck, and good work!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic609x.u34	Minister, every week, news about a case that you know very well, I think! As you have already seen on several occasions, the inhabitants of the Aachen region and my region are strongly opposed to the reactivation of the Tihange 2 reactor. Every week, new attempts are made to campaign against restarting this reactor or for its permanent shutdown, rather. More recently, 130 municipalities have even brought legal proceedings to that effect. These communes refer to an analysis conducted by a study office at the University of Vienna, which concludes that the evidence and arguments of AFCN are not sufficient to prove the safety of Tihange 2 in the event of an accident. Actions across the border do not leave traces in the conscience of Belgian citizens who feel concerned, at least in my region. Minister, I would like to take stock with you of these issues. Have you ever been able to get a hold of this new analysis? Should it really worry the citizens living in the east of the reactor in question? Do you think that legal action by the 130 foreign communes could jeopardize the recommendations of the AFCN? What could happen if the legal action came to an end?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic609x.u35	The Federal Agency for Nuclear Control took note of the study by the Institut für Sicherheits und Risikowissenschaften and analysed it in detail. The conclusions drawn by the Commission are as follows. AFCN is of the opinion that the study does not contain any new arguments or elements concerning the Tihange 2 and Doel 3 tank file. It therefore does not question the conclusions reached in this case and the decision of 17 November 2015 to allow Doel 3 and Tihange 2 to restart. Technically, the study refers to a dispersion calculation and the theoretical impact of a radioactive release, based on the assumption that the reactor tank and the Tihange 2 reactor building would suffer from a series of catastrophic failures. On 1 December 2016, at an ad hoc bilateral meeting between AFCN and BMUB (Federal Ministry for the Environment, Nature Conservation, Building and Nuclear Safety), the two safety authorities discussed this study. In the minutes of the report, the two authorities reached the following conclusions: "FANC and BMUB agreed that the studies results are not representative and that similar consequences could be expected for each nuclear power plant in the world when the worst case source term is being released". I can also tell you that the Dutch security authority, ANVS, has confirmed the views of AFCN and BMUB. Indeed, in its conclusions, the Dutch authority has indicated that the study in question reflects an unrealistic scenario and does not give a complete picture of the safety of the Tihange 2 reactor and the risk to the population as there is no reason to doubt the safety of the Tihange 2 reactor. Because of the many implausibility of this report, the ANVS considers that the conclusions of the report are not realistic. With regard to your third and fourth questions, I cannot comment on any ongoing judicial proceedings.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic609x.u36	Makes sense.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic609x.u37	However, in terms of reactor safety, I have complete confidence in AFCN. This was the first time I had to use three languages in the same answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic609x.u38	With me, that's how it is. Thank you very much, Minister, for taking stock with us of this issue that I know to be totally redundant. Other colleagues ask you even more regularly about this, but it is important to focus on the essentials and highlight what might be bad conclusions. Minister, you must know that the communications around this study are living very strongly. Hence the importance of being able to work in our communication on what you have just told me and which, indeed, tends to reassure me strongly.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic609x.u39	I have the experience that communicating bad news is much easier than communicating good news.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic609x.u40	I find that playing with people's fear and anguish, as some people do, is totally ignoble, and at some point it would have to stop, and that we could also decredivise certain things that are expressed, including in our media, as absolute truths.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic609x.u41	Mr Thiébaut, we will therefore begin your series of questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic609x.u42	Minister, you understand that I wanted to spend the afternoon with you. If I chose to ask so many questions about a subject such as fire service reform, it was because I asked – I look at the president – to hold a meeting on the evaluation of the reform of these services. That would be helpful. I therefore repeat the request to Brecht. Minister, we are about to celebrate the ten years of the reform of the relief services and I think this is the right time to relay a whole series of issues that come to me from the ground – trade unions, zone headquarters, firefighters. I would like to start by speaking with you about the difficulties faced by several areas in taking on the new tasks inherited from the reform. While the Royal Decree of 10 June 2014 provides clarity on the division of labour and should allow for better harmonization of missions, there are still major difficulties on the ground. These include both financial resources and staff reinforcements and the ability to develop cooperation agreements with civil protection units. For example, for the Hainaut-Centre area that I know well, since I am Vice-President of the Hainaut-Centre area, it is my responsibility that, given the situation of the parties concerned and the means available to them, it has been able to conclude only one convention. This involved collaboration only for the removal of cargo and the sealing of cargo. We are far from the original objective of the reform, which is to encourage synergies. My question is, therefore, the following. Could you provide an update on the number of conventions signed to date? Are they up to the objectives of the reform? What answer do you give to the relief areas that are crying out for their difficulties in fulfilling the new tasks inherited from the reform? How can you help them? Do you confirm the government's budgetary efforts, which aim to take over 50% of the funding of the reform in support of the municipalities? If so, what concrete commitments does this imply?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic609x.u43	Mr Thiébaut, one of the ways of responding to the increase in the scale required by civil security reform is the conclusion of a cooperation agreement between relief zones and operational civil protection units, in order to determine how units should intervene to carry out the missions of the zones. To date, six collaborative agreements have been signed. Others were negotiated between the areas and my services but were not finally signed pending further clarification following the civil protection reform. The distribution of missions between relief zones and civil protection units has not been revolutionized by the Royal Decree of 10 June 2014. It formalizes the functional integration of the two components of civil security and ensures greater complementarity between the missions of the civil protection operational units and the relief areas. Financial resources were made available as soon as the pre-areas were established to enable the relief areas to carry out most of the basic civil security missions. The federal state's contribution to the financing of fire services and, since 1 January 2015, relief areas have only increased in recent years, while the overall contribution of the municipalities remains stable at best. The amount of federal allocations increased from €21 million in 2010 to over €137 million in 2016. It should also be noted that the federal government's financial contribution is not limited to federal allocations to relief areas. It is also involved in the financing of projects which contribute to civil security and which must therefore not be fully or partially taken over by local authorities. As I have already had the opportunity to say, the 50/50 principle contained in section 67 of the Civil Security Act of 15 May 2007 is not an objective in itself. In fact, this is a guarantee for the municipal authorities that the reform of the fire services will not cost them more than they paid at the time of the reform. This guarantee does not apply to each municipality individually but to the overall cost of the municipalities within a rescue zone. Therefore, as long as the additional costs of the reform are borne by the Federal State, this cost of the reform for the communal authorities does not increase and the requirement of Article 67 is respected.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic609x.u44	Minister, six conventions across the country are not much! So there's still a lot of work to do!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic609x.u45	Madam President, Minister, the Civil Security Act of 15 May 2007 places an important responsibility on the area commander. The tasks assigned to him are numerous: he is thus responsible for the direction, organisation and management, as well as the division of tasks within the area. On the ground, the actors tell me that it is a lot for one man and that he should be better accompanied in the exercise of his function. The main difficulty would be concentration in the hands of a single man of both operational and administrative responsibilities. Have you received any comments on this matter from the areas of the country, Minister? If so, what does the government plan to support the Zone Commander in carrying out his missions and setting up the new administration? Does the KCCE provide, among other things, for training in management and upgrading of knowledge about the law and its implementing regulations? What is the situation in all areas of the country with regard to the installation of a zone commander? Do they all have a reigning zone commander? Finally, with regard to its assessment, it is carried out every two years and two negative assessments are required for the Council to eventually terminate the commander's mandate. In other words, the area must wait at least four years before issuing a commanding officer, if necessary, which is a long time. The idea of reducing the time between two evaluations to a single year is advanced in the field. What do you think?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic609x.u46	Mr Thiébaut, it appears from the feedback that I receive that the magnitude of the administrative tasks has, in general, surprised the zone commanders. It was not a surprise for my administration, however, that it proposed not to limit the function to the operational members of the fire department. As part of the amendment to the Royal Decree of 26 March 2014 setting out the function profile of the zone commander and the terms of his position, I had once again put forward the idea of opening the office to persons who were not firefighters. This proposal has, each time, been strongly rejected by the various organisations that I consult, in particular the trade unions and firefighters' federations. My services have encouraged relief areas to set up administrative services as quickly as possible to assist them. Funding could be provided through the federal core allocation to pre-areas and then relief areas. The KCE does not plan in the short and medium term to develop specific training for zone commanders. However, he is collaborating on initiatives such as spring class launched by the Flemish zone commanders.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic609x.u47	Zone commanders may also be trained as part of their ongoing training. New officer training, including OFF 3 training, includes management modules. Officers may also obtain recognition for training on the law and its enforcement orders, for example organized by the UVCW. Not all emergency areas have a proper zone commander yet. Operating zone commanders are currently operating in 12 areas. Many selection procedures are under way. Finally, at present, I have not received any echoes to shorten the deadline to one year if the result of the first evaluation is not satisfactory. However, your proposal would be consistent with the other operational members of the area who are assessed every two years in the event of a "satisfactory" statement, but after one year in the event of an "improvement" or "unsatisfactory" statement. Therefore, I will examine it and discuss it with the various organizations that I consult.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic609x.u48	Thank you very much, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic609x.u49	Mr President, Minister, as Vice-President of a relief zone, I have a lot of questions about the status of the area's operational personnel. First of all, I would like to address with you the issue of the consultation between your departments, the towns and municipalities and the staff concerned. In your policy note discussed here some time ago, you stress the importance of consultation and the need to maintain a permanent dialogue with trade union organisations. Concertation is all the more important given that it is up to me from the ground that the royal decrees relating to the administrative and financial status of the staff must necessarily be adapted. What is the concrete situation, Minister? You indicate that you will take regulatory initiatives to increase the quality and efficiency of fire services. What are the points that you are particularly interested in? Could you clarify to me how the consultation is organised between your departments, cities and municipalities and trade union organisations? What is the pace of the meetings? What does it show?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic609x.u50	Mr Thiébaut, the royal decrees relating to administrative and financial status have been applied for more than two years by the relief zones. As a result of this application, adjustments to these regulations have proved necessary. In addition, these texts were also still to be completed on certain points. The Royal Decrees on the Statute were therefore amended and supplemented in 2015 and 2016. A new draft amendment is under consideration within my services. Draft amendments to these ordinances are always discussed with all relevant partners (firefighters' federations, voluntary firefighters' associations, trade unions and Unions of cities and municipalities). Consultation with partners is informal and ad hoc when discussing draft regulations. There is no predefined pace in this case, but, given the important regulatory work, meetings are held several times a year. In addition to these informal meetings, trade union organisations are also involved in the adaptations of the texts through Committee C. There are also more regular consultations in the following framework. Every month, a meeting is held at the invitation of the Councils of Zone Commanders. About every two months the Commission for Civil Security Reform is held, which includes representatives of the Unions of Cities and Municipalities, fire brigades, voluntary associations and councils of zone commanders. Once a quarter is organised a meeting with the fire brigades and, twice a year, I personally meet the trade union organisations. In addition, my services respond daily to a number of questions from both the above-mentioned areas and partners, by e-mail or by telephone. The consultation between my services, my firm, myself and the various partners is therefore almost permanent.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic609x.u51	Minister, since you took office, you have taken action on the conditions of recruitment and qualifications required for certain functions in the emergency areas. In your policy note, you point out, in particular, that you want "to place more emphasis on acquired skills and less on diplomas and seniority". A first step in this direction has already been taken, with the abolition of the level A diploma requirement for the position of zone commander. We know that you intend to continue in the same direction for promotions to and within the officer cadre. So these are the questions I want to ask you. First of all, why did you consider it useful to no longer require a level A diploma for the commanding officer position, whereas, in order to be recruited as an officer, it is mandatory? If you remove the diploma requirements, do you put in place mechanisms to validate the experience acquired? If so, could you give an example? Are there any training plans to compensate for the absence of a diploma? Could this be the subject of consultation with the Regions and Communities? Finally, the fact that you intend to take less account of seniority requires further explanation. Do you not fear that this will involve demotivation of the existing staff?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic609x.u52	Mr. Thiébaut, as you mentioned in your question, there is indeed a proposal to amend the administrative status of firefighters with a view to removing the level A diploma requirement for promotions to and within the officer cadre. I thus pursue the logic undertaken within the framework of the function of zone commander. I would like to point out that the primary objective of the abolition of the level A diploma requirement for the position of zone commander was to relax the conditions required to apply for this grade and thus allow a choice from a larger panel of candidates. The function is thus open to all fire officers from the rank of master with useful experience in an operational and management function. There are currently many captains who do not have the A-level diploma. In the current state of the text, firefighters from the core and middle cadre could evolve in their careers to reach the senior level without having this diploma, through the successful completion of social promotion training once it has been organised. It would not be wise to exclude these people from the pool of candidate zone commanders. In the future, subject to the adoption of the change in the administrative status I have just mentioned, this pool could also be fed by the officers who do not hold the level A diploma promoted. The Royal Decree of 26 March 2014 laying down the function profile of the zone commander and the terms of his selection provides that candidates for the position of zone commander must meet tests equivalent to those required for an A-level officer by examining their management and management capabilities. The execution of these tests must be entrusted by the Zone Council to an external selection office. Similarly, if graduation requirements are removed for promotions to and within the officer cadre, candidates will have to be assessed through the promotion tests. As part of the discussions on changing the administrative status of firefighters, the field actors issued opinions. On their basis, a lead could be to require, in the context of the promotion tests, a proficiency test equivalent to that provided for in the federal certificate of fitness of the executive. Skills are therefore assessed, not diplomas. For example, a university degree in art history does not add value to the function. In the fire department, some people have phenomenal experience but have not graduated from level A. It is clear, however, that it is necessary to be able to prove their skills in order to manage the area. No separate training is planned. However, in order to be promoted to the higher rank, the patent corresponding to this grade must be obtained. All of the officer's certification trainings contain management and management-oriented modules. In addition, in the context of compulsory continuing training, officers may choose to follow these modules or to have training organised, for example, by the Regions recognised. It seems to me that this is a motivating factor for staff. Motivated and competent firefighters will be able to evolve faster, without necessarily having to wait a number of years.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic609x.u53	Minister, thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic609x.u54	Minister, the provisions set out in sections 301 and 302 of the Royal Decree of 19 April 2014 concerning the statutory resignation of relief zone agents raise some questions. That being said, I often refer to royal decrees of 2014, which you did not take yourself, but which ask for clarification. As far as voluntary firefighters are concerned, it is my responsibility that Article 301(2) may lead to situations of staff shortage if it is not completed. It is thus proposed to provide for a new provision which would state that "if the volunteer agent does not return to office for more than six consecutive months, he or she would be dismissed ex officio, except in exceptional circumstances". Do you intend to complete the regulations in this direction, Minister? Article 302 states that an ex officio resignation may be pronounced if certain conditions of recruitment or appointment are not met by the staff member. Could you clarify the scope of this article? For example, prior to the crossing, officers had to be domiciled in such a location to be appointed. From now on, professional agents are no longer obliged to do so. Is this also the case for officers hired before crossing into zones?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic609x.u55	Mr Thiébaut, Article 302 of the Administrative Statute of Operational Personnel in Emergency Areas provides that the resignation of a professional firefighter or a volunteer firefighter shall be pronounced ex officio when he ceases to fulfil a condition of recruitment or a condition of appointment. More specifically, this provision refers to articles 37 and 38 for conditions of recruitment and articles 36 and 41 for conditions of appointment. The conditions of recruitment include nationality, minimum age, conduct in accordance with the requirements of the office, enjoyment of civil and political rights, compliance with militia laws, having driver's license B, having the federal certificate of fitness, holding a level A diploma for the executive. For the conditions of appointment are covered the obligation of residence or availability imposed on the volunteer firefighter by the zone, the compulsory driver's licence C for the professional firefighter and, if the zone imposes it on the volunteer firefighter; the ambulance certificate for the professional or voluntary firefighter if the zone so requires. As a result, a volunteer or professional firefighter will be dismissed ex officio if the above conditions are no longer met during his or her career. Since the text expressly refers to the articles of the administrative statute embodying the conditions of recruitment and appointment, only failure to comply with those conditions may give rise to an ex officio resignation. Failure to comply with the obligation of residence that was previously imposed on professional firefighters cannot therefore justify an ex officio resignation. As for the volunteer firefighter who would not meet the availability requirement imposed by the area, different alternatives exist, such as taking into account his lack of availability in his assessment, proposing to suspend his appointment for six months and, in extreme cases, suggesting a voluntary resignation. There is therefore no need to amend the rules on this point.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic609x.u56	I thank the Minister for these clarifications.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic609x.u57	Minister, the manner in which the Royal Order of 19 April 2014 provides for the exercise of a higher function also raises a number of questions. If Article 137 clearly specifies what is meant by a higher function, i.e. any function corresponding to employment within the area in a grade higher than that of which the staff member is a member, it would appear that the provisions concerning the duration of his or her exercise are not sufficiently precise. Thus, questions remain as to the number of times that the exercise of this function could be extended. Article 143 does not mention this. Would it not be useful to clarify this in the text, minister?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic609x.u58	Mr Thiébaut, the exercise of a higher function, as prescribed by Articles 137 et seq. of the administrative statute of the operational personnel of the relief zones, is limited to specific situations, namely when a job is vacant or temporarily unoccupied by its holder and it is urgent and necessary to provide for it. In addition, the designation applies only for a period of six months which may be extended. Furthermore, with regard to the situation of the vacant employment, the appointment for the performance of a higher function may be made only on condition that the award procedure is initiated. Therefore, this designation will end after a period of six months, when the function is assigned, when it is re-occupied by the incumbent or when the designation is no longer justified by the requirements of the service. This regulatory framework therefore limits the number of extensions to what is strictly necessary for each situation to be sufficient.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic609x.u59	Minister, thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic609x.u60	Minister, a series of provisions set out in Book 9 of the Royal Decree of 19 April 2014 on the absence and leave of staff in emergency areas require some clarification. First, how should sick days be recorded? It's not clear to the staff. How many hours should you withdraw: 7.36 hours or 12 hours per day of absence? Could you clarify? With regard to special leave, Article 201(2) states that such leave shall be granted in consecutive calendar days. In practice, however, operational officers do not work continuously. Therefore, my question is: is it possible to withdraw only the days actually worked, and not to count the days of rest, so that the agents are not penalized? As far as the medical certificate is concerned, I also have a question. Article 235 merely states that the certificate "must be addressed to the medical inspection service to which the zone is affiliated". Would it not be useful to also provide for a copy to be sent to the area's human resources department so that the area can maintain the sick day quota?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic609x.u61	Mr Thiébaut, with regard to sick leave, firefighters normally receive 21 days every twelve months, which are added to the sickness leave capital. As Article 192 of the Administrative Statute states, "day" means a fifth of the weekly working arrangements. A professional firefighter who has a 38-hour weekly work plan receives 159.6 hours each year, in addition to his or her sick leave capital. When the firefighter is ill, the administrative services of the rescue zone withdraw from this capital the number of hours during which the firefighter was to work, and which are covered by a medical certificate. For example, if a firefighter is ill Monday to Friday, and only one twelve-hour shift was to be provided on Wednesday, the administrative department will only withdraw twelve hours from the sick leave fund. On the other hand, if the firefighter were to take five eight-hour guards, it would be 40 hours that would be subtracted. In addition, section 235 of the administrative status to which you refer not only states that the medical certificate must be sent to the medical examination department to which the area is affiliated. It also states that "a member of the professional staff who, as a result of illness or accident, is prevented from performing his or her duties normally, shall immediately inform the area to which he or she belongs, in accordance with the procedures laid down by the Council". For obvious reasons of medical secrecy, the certificate indicating the medical reasons for the absence must not and cannot be sent to the area. It is the responsibility of the medical inspection department to provide him with the period covered by the certificate in order to enable him to verify that this period corresponds to the period declared by the firefighter. With regard to emergency leave, they are granted on the occasion of the birth of the firefighter's spouse, marriages, deaths and various religious or secular ceremonies. In case of death, contrary to what you say, they are granted in non-consecutive calendar days, since funerals, pre-death formalities and possible meetings relating to a possible succession do not necessarily take place on consecutive days. In the event of childbirth, marriage or any other religious or secular ceremony, these are consecutive calendar days from that of the circumstance justifying the leave. For example, on the occasion of the birth of the firefighter's wife or cohabitant, the firefighter will not be required to perform any service within ten calendar days of the birth. In this case, the aim is to allow him to benefit from such a period of leave, even if he would normally have to take more than seven-six hours of work. On the occasion of a marriage or other religious or secular ceremony, the aim is that the firefighter must not perform any service on the day of the ceremony and, if the statute so provides, those who follow.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic609x.u62	Minister, thank you. It may seem a little tedious, but I can tell you that I spent hours in union bargaining to clarify all these points. This is a necessary exercise, which will save time in setting up the administration of the zones and the statutes.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic609x.u63	Minister, I had written this question before the meeting we had together at SHAPE. So there are issues that are no longer relevant, but I still take this question to tell you that I have reported on our contacts with the SHAPE authorities on the status of the issue of the resumption of the SHAPE fire centre. Things have been clarified. The question of the appropriateness of the operation is still pending in relation to the emergency zone. Many players in the area are wondering if it is not appropriate to maintain the service independently of the area and to continue to finance it as the system is planned today. I know this is not necessarily your vision, but I want to draw your attention to the fact that, financially, it would not change anything for the federal government and that administratively, it would be much less complicated for everyone. That being said, you know that there are supply agreements for the transfer of internal fire services from SHAPE to the area. Do you have any news on the progress of the negotiations? To return to my first consideration, legally, is the Hainaut-Centre zone obliged to legally take over the SHAPE fire service?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic609x.u64	Mr Thiébaut, I remind you that Belgium is obliged to respect the commitments made to NATO and concluded within the Garrison Support Arrangement, which was negotiated and approved by the previous government. The Garrison Support Arrangement explicitly provides that the SHAPE fire department will become a post in the Hainaut-Centre emergency area.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic609x.u65	So, there's an explicit federal decision.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic609x.u66	In addition, in execution of this Garrison Support Arrangement (...) had planned, in March 2014, that SHAPE firefighters would be taken over in the Hainaut-Centre rescue area. I am therefore striving to honour and fulfil these commitments.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic609x.u67	That's clear.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic609x.u68	Mr. Chairman, Minister, I have asked you several times about the situation of civil protection officers. They have a lot of questions about their future and the maintenance of their missions within their unit. Several months ago, you announced that you intend to present your vision and an action plan for civil protection reform at a forthcoming Council of Ministers. Since then, very little has been heard about the matter. I suppose you will recall my topical question in plenary on this subject. Your final plan is not yet officially available. Today's proposals on the new plan for dispersal of operational units in Belgium do not augur well for Ghlin's workers. They fear for their jobs. What exactly is the situation, minister? Could you provide us with an update and update on the status of discussions on the maintenance of units? What about the position of Ghlin's unit? Do you confirm the information about its next closure? If so, what fate will be reserved for surplus personnel? Do you have a message for her? More generally, when do you intend to present your new civil protection reform plan?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic609x.u69	Mr Thiébaut, I confirm that this decision has been too long overdue. It is a decision that must be taken within the Kern and it seems more difficult than I thought. The dossier remains on the table and I really hope that it can be completed as soon as possible. Before the decision is made, there is no certainty. You are talking about the closure of Ghlin; this is not decided at all, nor is it maintained. The only thing that is certain is that we are going to reduce the number of positions, from six to four or even two. The economy that this will bring will allow us to pay for the increase in status. Indeed, we want to give civil protection officers the same status as firefighters. That being said, the purpose is not to dismiss. We will try to find another assignment, either within the Civil Protection for those who accept the transfer to another site, or through a transfer to the emergency areas, where there are vacant posts corresponding to the training of civil protection officers, or to the federal police. Having said that, I know very well that someone from Jabbeke is not going to work in Brasschaat, and vice versa. I could give you an example in Wallonia too.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic609x.u70	For example, between Neufchâteau and Ghlin, there is a certain distance.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic609x.u71	Yes. So, we're going to look for solutions. Nothing says that once the decision is made, it will be closed overnight. We're gonna set up a program for every barracks. You also know that if civil protection continues to perform front-line tasks in a barracks, they will be transferred with the appropriate equipment and personnel to the emergency areas. Plans are ready, but they depend on closure decisions. I agree with you: it takes too long. But think I'm doing everything I can to get this decision quickly. The more it drags, the more difficult it will be to implement.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic609x.u72	Indeed, Minister. Nothing is worse for staff than being kept in a state of uncertainty about their future.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic609x.u73	Mr Minister, Article 60 of the Royal Decree of 19 April 2014 on the administrative status of operational personnel in emergency areas indicates that within each area, a traineeship commission is established for the evaluation of trainees in a promotion grade. In the field, questions arise as to the exact role accorded to this commission, particularly with regard to the internship report. Article 65 does not appear to be sufficiently precise in this regard. So, does the commission really have a say in the preparation of the internship report or does it only intervene in the event of the trainee's recourse? Could you clarify the matter?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic609x.u74	Mr Thiébaut, a short question, a short answer. The Staff Regulations expressly provide that at the end of the promotion course, the trainee master shall draw up a final report summarizing how to serve the trainee. The trainee master proposes either to confirm the trainee's promotion or not to confirm this promotion or to extend the probationary period. The Internship Commission shall only intervene in the event of the intern's appeal against a report from the Internship Master proposing the extension of the traineeship or not confirming the promotion.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic609x.u75	Minister, thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic609x.u76	Minister, sections 110 to 116 of the Royal Decree of 19 April 2014 provide for the reassignment of operational professional members from relief zones. In this regard, I have questions about the personnel plan. Minister, what are the consequences for him when an operational officer is reassigned? Should the staff member concerned be left in the operational staff plan or moved to the administrative framework? It seems that the order is not sufficiently precise about the definition of tasks. When should a task be considered operational or administrative? On the basis of what criteria do the areas have to decide?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic609x.u77	Mr. Thiébaut, the reassigned staff member may be in a lighter operational function or in an administrative, technical or logistical function. If that is the case, he will naturally be part of the administrative staff. The staff plan may need to be adapted. In this regard, it should be emphasized that the staff member who is reassigned to an Executive Office remains subject to the administrative status of the operational staff. In this way, it retains the benefits arising from the status of operational staff. The definition of operational or administrative tasks depends on the content of the function. For example, once there is an officer's involvement in the interventions, he or she performs an operational function. If, on the other hand, he or she is assigned full-time to a logistics function relating to the equipment of the barracks or to the administrative work of the barracks, he or she performs an administrative, technical or logistical function. The task definition should be evaluated on a case-by-case basis. In this regard, if the relief zone questions one or more specific cases, it can naturally turn to my services, who can help it.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic609x.u78	Thank you very much, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic609x.u79	Minister, since the adoption of the reform, paramedics who are not firefighters have been granted an administrative status separate from that of firefighters. As a reminder, prior to the reform, officers were trained to be firefighters and ambulances and were then asked to choose between the firefighter and ambulance function. This had no impact on their status. This is no longer the case. Although much of the administrative status of paramedics remains the same as that of firefighters, there is a question of status today. Minister, I have a specific question: could you indicate on what status the officers who had chosen the ambulance function when they were firefighters of training depend on? Would it not be useful to provide a bridge between voluntary firefighter status and voluntary non-fire ambulance status when the volunteer firefighter is unable to perform his or her duties?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic609x.u80	Mr Thiébaut, non-fire ambulance workers actually enjoy a specific administrative and financial status, fixed by two royal decrees of 23 August 2014. You say that before the reform, operational personnel were trained as firefighters and ambulances, and then they had to choose between the two functions. It should be noted that this was a special feature of the Mons fire department. This is not consistent either financially or in terms of human resources management. The Fire Inspection Service has noted this on several occasions in its visit reports for 2002, 2004 and 2008. Staff who were recruited as firefighters for the city of Mons were transferred to the emergency area as firefighters. It is the administrative status of the firefighters that is applicable to it, that is, the Royal Decree of 19 April 2014. Regardless of the choice made at the time by the firefighter, he must maintain his operationality as a firefighter, inter alia by following continuous training and continuing training, which are compulsory in accordance with the rules laid down in Article 150 of the administrative status of firefighters. The possibility of a bridge between firefighter status and non-fire ambulance status is currently being explored for both volunteers and professionals.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic609x.u81	Mr. Chair, Minister, the organization of volunteer staff time requires some clarification. Article 177 of the Royal Decree of 19 April 2014 states that the minimum availabilities of the latter for the period of service and the manner in which they are recalled to the post are laid down in an internal regulation. Since several articles of the Statute also refer to this Article 177, could you clarify what is to be found in the Rules of Procedure with regard to minimum availabilities?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic609x.u82	I have already answered similar questions on several occasions in this committee. I refer you to Question No 5806 by Mr Blanchart of 28 October 2015 and Question No 12178 by Mrs Matz of 2 June 2016. I refer mainly to the content of these two answers. In the meantime, the regulations have not been amended. The relief zones are expected to have adopted these rules of procedure for the past two years. In summary, Article 177 of the Administrative Statute provides that the area must adopt a ROI setting out the minimum availability of voluntary personnel and the modalities of the recall service. With regard to Article 177, the report to the King gives a series of examples of what this ROI may contain. Examples include: the minimum number of hours of availability per month or per year; the periods of prior notification of periods of foreseeable unavailability; the method of notification of periods of unpredictable unavailability; and the reasons for periods of unavailability of several days. The objective of the ROI set by each rescue zone is to reconcile, on the one hand, the need to have the staff necessary to carry out the legal tasks and, on the other hand, to take account of the voluntary nature of the citizen engagement of these volunteer firefighters. The ROI is established autonomously by each relief zone in order to be able to satisfy as many services as determined by the area according to its risk analysis. Next, the actual availability periods of each volunteer firefighter shall be determined in consultation with the zone commander or his delegate, in accordance with the ROI of the area.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic609x.u83	Minister, I am reassured that I am not the only one concerned about this issue. More broadly, would it not be appropriate to draw up an interpretative circular clarifying a whole series of points? Indeed, I am asking you, like Mr Blanchart, in charge of another rescue zone and perhaps other actors in the field will ask you questions again. It may be necessary to make an assessment of this order and to clarify things for everyone in a circular. That's a suggestion I'm making.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic609x.u84	Minister, section 207 of the Act of 15 May 2007 allows members of administrative staff transferred from the commune to the area to remain subject to the provisions of their former communal status. The Royal Decree implementing this article determines that this choice concerns either pecuniary provisions and benefits, or the communal leave scheme, or both. Nothing is simple. On the ground, it appears that this new regulation is unclear to the staff concerned. Minister, could you please tell me who exactly is covered by this provision? Is this only for staff hired by cities and municipalities prior to crossing into zones, i.e. before 1 January 2015?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic609x.u85	Mr Thiébaut, I can confirm that section 207 of the above-mentioned Act applies only to operational or administrative personnel who were part of the organizational framework of the municipal fire services before they entered the emergency zone. It is therefore not enough for him to have been hired by one of the communes in the area, but he must have belonged to the organic framework of a fire department on the date of the passage into the emergency zone. With regard to administrative staff, the same law entrusts the relief zone with the task of establishing the statutes of its administrative staff. For a person who has been transferred from the framework of a communal fire service to a rescue zone, the latter must provide for transitional provisions which comply with the requirements of the Royal Decree of 5 December 2014 on this subject. These measures laid down by the zone must therefore enable staff members who make use of the option referred to in article 207 of the Act of 15 May 2007 to opt for one of the following two options. According to the first, it continues to benefit from the regulations that were applicable to it in monetary or social terms as long as it is entitled to the option of choice referred to in section 207 of the Act. Following the second, he shall retain his leave scheme in accordance with the municipal statute applicable to him on 31 December 2014 as long as he is entitled to the option of choice referred to in Article 207 of the Act.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic609x.u86	Minister, thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic609x.u87	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Vercamer converted 16793 into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic609x.u88	Minister, we'll meet again. Everyone will have their stage, but the finale, we'll see.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic609x.u89	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic609x.u90	In this case, the situation on Tihange 1 has been stable for some time. The plant has been closed since 7 September. Before developing my question, a suggestion for your site since we visited this plant and we could make a small report on your site. But I have just visited your site expecting to find one or the other trace of this visit. However, the last amendment was dated June 8, 2016. For a minister of the interior who wants to be in the news, it would require more information... But you have been very busy.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic609x.u91	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic609x.u92	I come more seriously to my question. Last Wednesday, I asked you about the situation at the Tihange 1 power station, which has been closed since 7 September following the disturbing uprising of the ground of a last aid building. In your answer, you already suggested that Electrabel would not be able to meet the requirements of the AFCN in terms of the study and testing of the correct characterization of the poorly consolidated embankment layer and the justification of stability, both in normal and accidental situations. You even made it clear that the stability of Building W was not demonstrated. I was therefore not surprised to learn that, following a meeting held on Friday between AFCN and Electrabel, this nuclear company had to announce a sixth extension of the date of possible reactivation of the plant, this time to 31 March. As you said last week, it was not very smart to communicate a revival at the end of February in view of the many requests left unanswered. I would like you to give us in a precise and exhaustive manner all the elements brought by AFCN, at this meeting last Friday, on what is still a problem in the file and what still needs to be provided as documents by Electrabel. More than ever, transparency on the Tihange 1 situation is needed. Six postponements have not yet been enough for Electrabel to realize this.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic609x.u93	Mr Nollet, I can confirm that a follow-up technical meeting was held between the operator and AFCN on February 17. This is a complex matter and I believe it is important that it be dealt with with with the utmost care and transparency. In this context, I believe that the Security Authority is playing its full role in responding fully and accurately to all the questions that have been asked of it since the 7 September incident. Electrabel, in its role as operator, also acts with the transparency requested by organizing a site visit for the nuclear safety sub-committee. This dossier deals with engineering issues of a very advanced technical level. These technical subjects cannot be summarized, explained and justified in a few words. Before that, it would be necessary to develop the whole theory and to specify a number of technical details. Although this is complicated, I will nevertheless try to answer your question as precisely as possible. As already explained in detail during this commission as well as on site during our visit to Tihange, the main point of discussion between Electrabel and the Safety Authority is the justification for the stability of the Tihange 1 safety structures located on the weakly consolidated embankment layer, i.e. their carrying capacity and settlements. The Safety Authority considers that the stability of certain Tihange 1 structures located on the weakly consolidated embankment layer is not sufficiently demonstrated. In addition, for some Tihange 1 structures located on the weakly consolidated embankment layer, the acceptability of transient dynamic displacements and permanent displacements in the event of an earthquake is not now sufficiently demonstrated. The Safety Authority also requests clarification and justification of certain soil control and comfort parameters and a plan to monitor the settlements of Tihange 1 structures located on the embankments that have a safety function. Following Friday's meeting with the AFCN, the operator updated its transparency site with an estimated restart date. The European Transparency Regulation (REMIT) imposes an obligation on the operator to publish data on the availability of capacity and the use of electricity generation facilities. This has nothing to do with the Security Authority and I can assure you that no relaunch can be envisaged without the approval of the Security Authority.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic609x.u94	Minister, I thank you for the specific elements, although I know that there are many technical aspects behind them. You have, I believe, been able to draw up the essential elements that continue to be studied and therefore to be of concern. According to what Electrabel considered, the data as provided for the moment are not sufficiently certain and guaranteed in terms of stability, as you have just said. I thank you for these elements of both pedagogy and transparency. I know the exercise isn't easy. Like you, I can only follow the evolution of the case. And question you as soon as there's a new element. I'm afraid and you're right, that it's about market control. It's not security or safety. The date of March 31 remains hypothetical. At any rate, the stakes are clearly defined.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic609x.u95	Minister, iodine 131, which is an artificial radionuclide, was detected, in January 2017, as traces in the air at ground level in Europe. Unless otherwise noted, the first report refers to a sampling carried out during the second week of January in the far north of Norway. Other detections of iodine 131 have been observed in all the countries around us, from Norway: Finland, Poland, the Czech Republic, Germany, France and Spain until the end of January. It's kind of weird, but we've detected it everywhere except at home, I dare say, like at the time in France, at the time of the Chernobyl accident. We had presented maps and the Chernobyl cloud, all proportions guarded, was going to bypass the borders of France. What about us? Telerad beacons are designed to detect radioactive clouds. Have these beacons, as in neighbouring countries, identified the problem or, humorously, strangely, has the radioactive cloud bypassed our borders? Iodine 131 is known to be a radionuclide with a short radioactive period: eight days, not much more. The detection of this short-lived radionuclide attests, therefore, to a relatively recent release, where it has been found. Do you know more about the origin of the release? What is the source of the problem? These are hypotheses, but some refer to rejection in Russian nuclear facilities, which, as you know, are, in any case, much more rudimentary for some of them. It is Nicolas Hénin, who is an international specialist, who evokes the nuclear site of Novaya Zemlya. I don't know if I'm saying it right. The most likely hypothesis, according to other sources, is that it would be a radiopharmaceutical or radiotherapeutic production plant that allowed this iodine 131 to escape. What do you think is the origin? It is important to identify it because riparians may be exposed to significant doses. We know we're farther away, but there's a dispersion and so the concentration is at the emission site. It is recalled that by November 2011, abnormal concentrations of iodine 131 had already been detected in the air of European countries. There, the investigation had established that they originated from the Hungarian Institute for Isotope Research in Budapest. What about this incident? Do you already know its origin? What are the health consequences of this radioactive cloud?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic609x.u96	Mr President, honourable Member, the network of continuous measurements of the rate of radioactivity Telerad has not detected any particular increase in the rate of radioactivity. It should be noted, however, that the concentrations referred to here are well below the detection threshold of the Telerad radioactivity measurement system. The Telerad telemetry network is an early warning network aimed at the direct protection of the population. Since the levels of radioactivity detected are at several levels of magnitude below the guide levels for taking direct protection actions for the population, it is normal that Telerad stations should not reach such low detection limits. At present, we do not know the origin of this rejection and I can only add that the first report refers to a sampling carried out in the second week of January, in the far north of Norway. Other detections of iodine 131 have been observed, from Finland, Poland, the Czech Republic, Germany, France and Spain, until the end of January, as you mentioned, Finally, these iodine levels have no health consequences.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic609x.u97	The reassuring thing you're transmitting to us is the absence of health consequences. However, I ask myself a question. Our beacons do not spot this cloud but those of neighbouring and even more distant countries. Would our beacons be less sensitive? Of course, if there had been a more serious incident, they would have spotted it and I welcome it. But is that to say that beacons installed in other countries are more modern and therefore more sensitive? Shouldn't ours be modernized? I know that you cannot give me an answer now, but I would like to invite you to consult the services concerned in order to check whether the beacons installed following the Chernobyl accident should not be more sensitive, even if the doses in question do not have any health consequences. With regard to the origin of the incident, we will wait for international control, but I am concerned that our beacons have not spotted the cloud and I would like you to continue to investigate on your side.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic609x.u98	Mr Minister, we know that the thousands of cracks in the Doel 3 and Tihange 2 reactor tanks were to be carefully monitored. I assume that the Doel 3 plant officials took advantage of the 2016 cut-off to re-inspect the situation. Minister, what variations were found between the 2016 inspection and the 2014 inspection? My application is intended to receive changes in number but also in size, maximum, median and average amplitude, as well as the standard deviation of these variations. How many indications had to be further analysed because they showed an amplitude greater than the non-evolution criterion? I would also like you to tell me how many indications were noted in 2016, without being noted in 2014. Finally, can you tell me when such an inspection will also be carried out in the tank of the Tihange 2 power plant?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic609x.u99	Mr Nollet, as you know, on November 17, 2015, AFCN agreed to restart the Doel 3 and Tihange 2 reactors. In this context, it demanded that Elecrabel re-inspect the reactor tanks at future unit slice stops and, after that, at least every three years, using the same qualified method for the detection of hydrogen defects. This inspection was carried out in Doel 3 in October 2016 and will be carried out in Tihange 2 in April 2017, during its first slice stop following the restart. A follow-up of the evolution of the hydrogen flakes was therefore carried out at the end of 2016 in the form of ultrasonic inspection over the entire thickness of the Doel 3 tank viroles. The results were analysed using the same methodology as in 2014 and qualified in 2015 by the security authorities. A machine is inserted into the tank. It makes it possible to inspect each square centimeter of the tank viroles and to characterize all the defects with a high precision depending on the focal of the machine. The complexity of the re-inspection process is related to the fact that it is not possible to reposition this machine at exactly the same starting location as in previous inspections. As a result, for a single defect, the size and inclination figures obtained during the 2016 inspection may differ very slightly (the uncertainty value of the measurements and the placement of the machine) from the figures obtained during the 2014 inspection. In any event, the actual actual size and inclination of the defect did not change between these two inspections and these variations are not significant. Because of this repositioning finding, it is also possible that the machine no longer detects certain very small defects or detects new ones. It is indeed possible that two indications of defects identified in 2016 extremely close to each other were identified during the 2014 inspection as a single indication of larger size. This is a well-known phenomenon of ultrasonic fault detection experts who have defined strict criteria on the statistical distribution of fault populations to determine whether or not there is an evolution of defects. By vulgarizing, one can imagine that there is no evolution if, statistically, the same number of defects grow and shrink. Therefore, the results of this re-inspection did identify some variations in the number, size and magnitude of defects between the 2014 and 2016 inspections but were the result of the repositioning explained above. These variations are therefore not representative of a real phenomenon but are induced by the processes of measuring defects and do not in any way call into question the strength of the tank and, consequently, the safety of the reactor. Analysis of these results concluded that there was no new hydrogen flakes and that there was no change in the size of the already detected hydrogen flakes. Based on these results, AFCN did not raise any objections to the Doel 3 restart, the reactors restarted in December 2016. AFCN and Electrabel continue to verify the condition of the tank, as provided for in international rules.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic609x.u100	Minister, I'm still a little hungry. You explain the principles, you explain the difficulty of positioning the camera in the same place. But my question was also to see how many indications were further analysed because the magnitude of the difference was such that, compared with the non-evolution criteria, a complementary analysis was needed. And even on that question, where I'm asking you for figures, you're not answering me. However, according to my information, there are indications with amplitude variations greater than 0.5 dB and 1.5 dB, and thus greater than the non-amplitude criterion. I would like to know the exact number of these indications whose variation is greater than the non-evolution criteria. That was my question, and you don't answer it. This does not mean that there is necessarily a problem, but I do not find it correct not to give me the number. So I wonder why. That's an issue for me. I hear the conclusion you're drawing is that there's no problem. I'll believe you, but I need the numbers!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic609x.u101	I understand that. I propose that the matter remain open and that we go back to it in more detail at the next meeting.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic609x.u102	Yeah, as usual. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic609x.u103	At the beginning of this month, Minister, you announced that at the end of last year a steering committee had drawn up a new and adapted concept for the mandatory Ministerial Directive MFO-2. On 21 February, therefore, yesterday, this would be explained and discussed at a meeting with the coordination committee. The general inspection provided you with a report on the causes of structural deficiencies in July last year. That report was passed on to the steering committee in its entirety. In mid-term reporting, you have already approved in principle the inclusion of a remuneration and sanction mechanism in the new directive. The mechanism is not an end in itself but is indeed better part of the new directive in terms of rights and obligations. The developed concept effectively contains such a mechanism. Firstly, could you clarify the content of the new draft directive? What is your global and integral answer to that complex matter? Secondly, are you prepared to deliver the AEG report to Parliament in its entirety and to the members of our committee in particular? What shortcomings were identified in the recommendations and how are they addressed? Thirdly, can you explain in concrete terms the mechanism of remuneration and sanctions?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic609x.u104	Mrs Lahaye-Battheu, last night there was a meeting of the Integrated Police Coordination Committee on which I was present. There it has been found that the local and federal police have jointly developed an adapted concept of MFO-2. We went over a few issues last night. The full text will be delivered to me during the course of this week. I will then have my services examine whether the proposal adequately meets the shortcomings and recommendations identified to date. Afterwards, the new MFO-2 can be issued after the planned consultation procedures. So there's an agreement. That was explained yesterday on a number of crucial points and I thought it was okay. I will be given the text and, if Parliament so requests, I will deliver the document, which is no problem at all. The coordination committee of the integrated police informed me that the developed concept provides for a sanction mechanism through a withholding from the federal base. That mechanism works like a fine system. It may be applied after examination by the AIG that a zone has refused to contribute to the HyCap system on an unjustified basis. At the end of the year, the amounts thus withheld will be distributed among the police areas to which the sanction mechanism was not applied during the same year. The good pupils will therefore be rewarded by the sanctions imposed on the poor pupils. With this new arrangement we want to restore, as the texts will also show, that the HyCap system is actually a system of solidarity between the zones. So not between the local zones and the federal level, but essentially between the zones. Only in exceptional circumstances that will be described will this work in the other direction, with solidarity towards the federal plane, for example for a special manifestation. Mostly it will be a system of solidarity between local areas.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic609x.u105	Mrs Lahaye-Battheu, you have the floor for your question. 16859 on the fight against retail crime.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic609x.u106	Mr President, I will have to translate that question into a written question, because I am expected to attend the meeting of the Committee of Inquiry. I apologize.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic609x.u107	Emergency breaks the law!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic609x.u108	Mr President, Minister, a feminist and peaceful demonstration, aimed at promoting the safe occupation of public space by women, has been the subject of violence by police officers, in civilian clothes and uniforms. This is, in any case, what emerges from the images and testimonies received. This is of particular concern; it is disturbing; it is worrying. At first glance, according to the information available to us, it was not a violent demonstration that required this kind of intervention by the police forces. Minister, can you give me further information? What is your appreciation? How did you react to these acts?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic609x.u109	Minister, on Saturday, February 11, 2017, around 8:00 p.m., some 100 women demonstrated peacefully in the centre of the capital, apparently, with the aim of re-appropriating public space and denouncing all gender-based violence against women and LGBT people. This event is part of an international concept called Reclaim the Night. The Brussels crisis has led to outbursts and even police violence that are quite incomprehensible. Police officers in plain clothes and uniforms blocked and encircled these women to carry out identity checks. According to several participants, some were left on the ground rather violently. This situation lasted until midnight. As a result of a number of worrying information, Minister, can you provide answers to these few questions. Does the fact that this event was not authorized justify such an intervention? Why should a plainclothes policeman be involved in the first place? Was the use of force reasonable and proportionate to the objective pursued? What are the real instructions given to the police that night? Has a complaint been filed? Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic609x.u110	Mrs Gerkens, Mrs Ben Hamou, first of all, I would like to inform you that managing this event is a local responsibility. I will therefore not comment on how it has been managed. Secondly, the judicial facts and possible prosecutions do not fall within my jurisdiction but rather those of my colleague, Koen Geens, Minister of Justice. However, I can give you the following answers. According to the information report provided by the Brussels-Ixelles police zone concerning the demonstration held on Saturday 11 February 2017 in the territory of the city of Brussels, no official request had been made for this event or for previous editions. The source of information came from the social networks on which was found the call for the fourth edition of Reclaim the Night which is actually a torch-walk organized by feminists only. The appointment was set at 8:00 p.m. at Mont des Arts. The local police reported that no dialogue or communication with the protestors was possible. The police services, in the presence of the police commissioner in charge of the police service, nevertheless tried to talk to a person who seemed to them to be one of the officials in order to know the intentions, but to no avail. According to the local police, the tension with the police presence was very palpable. The procession started at about 8:45 p.m. The number of participants was about 100, some of whom had a masked face and came from a squat in the city centre. To frame the procession, a police officer placed himself at the front of the procession at a reasonable distance, while another closed the rear of the group. Given the lack of communication, the local police report that it was very difficult to frame this event, as the intentions of the demonstrators were not known. The itinerary followed was as follows: Albertine, Madeleine, Éperonniers, Place Saint-Jean, Violette, Chapeliers, Lombard, Etuve, rue des Grands Carmes, where the intervention took place. Several tags were made during the journey, for example on a car and on the shop window. I quote: "Flict, rapist, murderer; the vandal is your sister; Fight sexism; sexism outside our bodies; neither husband nor boss, capitalism". Two incidents also occurred with a passerby and a taxi driver, whose vehicle was surrounded, an incident for which the local police were obliged to intervene. Since further damage and incidents were to be feared on the route and in the city centre, for example in Anspach and Bourse, the demonstration was confined and 138 people were identified on site. The protestors were then invited to leave the premises. An investigation is under way to identify the perpetrators of acts of vandalism.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic609x.u111	I thank the minister for his response. It is true that our local elected officials will also have to question the way in which the local police have intervened. On the basis of your report to us, it can be seen that communications between law enforcement officials and participants in this event have probably been difficult. Nevertheless, I believe that the training and rules of operation of law enforcement officers imply that the officers themselves do not fall into violence.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic609x.u112	No violence, unless it's necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic609x.u113	That's it, but when is it necessary? It's true that sometimes you can't cut it. Here, surround a car and make tags, even if these facts are found, it does not require to take out the batons and hit people. That's what I saw on the footage of the reports, but of course I'll let the investigations continue. I think this is important, especially since previous editions have taken place. There was no request to demonstrate. Not to ask, it also belongs to the content of this type of event, since it deals precisely with how women can, in safety, appropriate public places and spaces to avoid gender-based acts, and also to make recommendations for the management or planning of spaces. I'll be waiting for more information.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic609x.u114	Minister, thank you for this comprehensive response. I understand that it is not acceptable for a demonstration to be held without permission. The police did their job and had to act accordingly. However, I was deeply shocked to see the videos of protestors, women battling and clinging to the ground. There is no justification for such violence, which seems to be disproportionate to the facts. Maybe I'll throw a stone in the pond again. Is this not reflected in a shortage of police personnel in the police area, with the police on their knees? Maybe it's time to take action.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic609x.u115	Mr President, Minister, my question is related to my colleague's last sentence on a certain exhaustion and understaffing of the police force, since it concerns the number of overtime hours worked. On 15 February, the press published some figures in this regard. With the terrorist attacks and the continuing threat to our country, the police blew up the overtime counters. In 2016, federal police officers totaled 22,935,228 overtime, which is equivalent to 3 million days! This is 22% more than in 2015 and 51% more than in 2014. Local police have also not been out of work, with over 36,700,000 overtime hours in 2016, an increase of 17% over 2015 and 23% over 2014. These overtime hours come in addition to the quotas allocated to each officer. For the police unions, these figures are proof by the absurd that the police force is too limited. In recent days, the unions have issued press releases about your commitment to recruit 1,600 police officers in 2016 and are still waiting for proof of these commitments. Moreover, in terms of the quality of work, more and more police officers say they are at an end, are no longer able to take their rest time. There is therefore an increase in the number of absences for illness and burn out; I have already asked you about this. In the face of this alarming situation, which is unfortunately not new, I would like to ask you the following questions. First of all, do you confirm the figures in the press concerning overtime? How do you assess this situation compared to previous years? The context is undeniably different: the threat, the attacks. But even taking 2015 compared to 2014, there is a strong increase. What steps do you intend to take to respond to these very challenging figures? What is the status of the 1,600 recruitments promised in 2016? Where are we? Are they engaged? Are they in training? Are they coming? How many additional people do you plan to hire in 2017?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic609x.u116	Mr Vanden Burre, I do not at all confirm the figures for overtime as communicated. Indeed, the figures you give relate to the actual gross amounts paid for overtime for the years mentioned, not the number of overtime hours worked. The number of overtime hours worked by federal police personnel is as follows: - for 2014: 631 545.40 hours, - for 2015: 816 755,10 hours - and for 2016: 984 649.4 hours. I can't confirm the numbers for the local police, but the same reasoning is probably applicable. There is therefore a significant increase compared to previous years, but less significant between 2015 and 2016 (+20%) than between 2014 and 2015. This is still reassuring because in 2016, we had several crises to deal with, while 2015 was a calmer year. Let me turn to your second question. I have used the interdepartmental provision to strengthen the integrated police framework; I have already explained this on several occasions. In 2016, instead of 800 new inspectors initially planned, the federal police were able to recruit 1,600. I can confirm that the 1,600 were recruited in 2016, from which nearly 1,500 began their training. About 100 people were hired, but they still had to give notice to their previous employer. They started their training in 2017. So go see the schools and you will see that they are full as a result of these recruitments. The length of training required to have quality police officers causes an inertial effect. The measures taken will therefore only be effective in 2017, when the new reinforcements emerge from training. I also confirm that for 2017, there will be another 1,400 and 1,400 in 2018. In the meantime, various measures have been taken, such as the possibility of deferring days off to give each chief of corps the greatest flexibility in the day-to-day organization of his or her police force. In response to your third question, I confirm that for 2016, the number of winners of the selection exams was indeed 1,600, just for the basic police framework. Many of these will be out of training in 2017. In addition to these recruitments for the core framework, the police also hired 51 senior inspectors with special expertise to strengthen units within the judicial pillar to combat the current terrorist threat. For 2017, it is envisaged to recruit 1,400 aspirants inspectors and to engage 45 aspirants principal inspectors with special specialization. In addition, a commitment of 40 new officers is also planned to strengthen management.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic609x.u117	Thank you, Minister, for all this clarification. I think this answers my questions and puts a certain objectivity in the debate. Given its importance, we will return to it.
