ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip194x.u1	The meeting is open. The meeting was opened.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip194x.u2	We must proceed with the admission and swearing-in of the successor who is eligible to replace Mr Willy Demeyer, who resigned on 2 November 2017. We must proceed to the admission and swearing-in of the alternate who is to sit to replace Mr.Willy Demeyer, who resigned on November 2, 2017. The successor who will replace him is Jacques Chabot, the first successor to the Liège constituency. The alternate to replace him is Mr Jacques Chabot, the first alternate in the electoral district of Liège. The credentials of Mr Jacques Chabot were declared valid at our meeting on 19 June 2014. Jacques Chabot's powers were validated in our June 19, 2014 session. Since the additional examination provided for in Article 235 of the Code of Choice refers exclusively to the maintenance of the eligibility requirements, in the light of the documents obtained, it is a mere formality in the present circumstances. Since the supplementary verification, provided for in article 235 of the Electoral Code, relates only to the preservation of the conditions of eligibility, it appears that this verification, in the light of the documents obtained, has only a character of purely formality. I therefore propose that this Member be admitted. I therefore propose that you proceed to the admission of this member. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. I recall the words of the oath: "I swear to comply with the Constitution" "Your judge d'observer la Constitution" "Ich schwöre die Verfassung zu befolgen." Je rappelle les termes du serment: "Je jure d'observer la Constitution" "I swear to comply with the Constitution" "Ich schwöre die Verfassung zu befolgen '. I would ask Mr Jacques Chabot to take the constitutional oath. I ask Mr. Jacques Chabot to take the constitutional oath.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip194x.u3	Mr Jacques Chabot will be part of the French language group. Jacques Chabot will be a member of the French linguistic group.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip194x.u4	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 8 November 2017, I propose: On the agenda of this afternoon's plenary session, the draft law on compensation for companies affected by the fipronil crisis, Nos 2693/1 to 4. - move the following legislative proposals: the bill (Mr Peter Buysrogge, Mrs Karolien Grosemans and Mr Veli Yüksel, Mr Hendrik Bogaert, Richard Miller, Damien Thiéry, Dirk Van Mechelen and Mr Tim Vandenput) amending various provisions relating to the promotion of the military, Nos 2711/1 to 3; the legislative proposal (Mrs Karolien Grosemans, Mr Peter Buysrogge, Mrs Renate Hufkens and Mr Johan Klaps, Tim Vandenput, Dirk Van Mechelen, Vincent Van Quickenborne, Veli Yüksel and Richard Miller) amending the Act of 28 February 2007 establishing the status of the military and candidate military forces of the active framework of the Armed Forces as regards the political activities and mandates of the military, Nos 1254/1 to 5. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 8 November 2017, I propose: - to include in the agenda of this afternoon's plenary session the draft law on compensation for companies affected by the fipronil crisis, Nos. 2693/1 to 4. - to move the following bills: the bill (Mr. Peter Buysrogge, Ms. Karolien Grosemans and Messrs. Veli Yüksel, Hendrik Bogaert, Richard Miller, Damien Thiéry, Dirk Van Mechelen and Tim Vandenput) amending various provisions relating to the advancement of military personnel, Nos. 2711/1 to 3; the bill (Mrs. Karolien Grosemans, Mr. Peter Buysrogge, Ms. Renate Hufkens and Messrs. Johan Klaps, Tim Vandenput, Dirk Van Mechelen, Vincent Van Quickenborne, Veli Yüksel and Richard Miller) amending the Act of 28 February 2007 laying down the status of military personnel and military candidates of the armed forces' active cadre with regard to the exercise of political activities and mandates by military personnel, Nos. 1254/1 to 5. These two proposals will be moved to the end of the agenda. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip194x.u5	I think Mr. Van Hees wants to speak on the order of business.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip194x.u6	Mr. Chair, several colleagues and I have introduced questions about Paradise Papers to the Prime Minister. Obviously, they were transferred almost at the last minute to the Minister of Finance. I am surprised by this choice, given the gravity of the subject. Perhaps the Prime Minister's refusal to respond demonstrates his lack of interest in the problem. Above all, my question also refers – I had correctly put it in this direction – to aspects that concern Minister Reynders and his entourage, as well as CD&V and Open Vld agents, involved in conflicts of interest that, beyond the Paradise Papers scandal, pose serious problems. That is why I consider that only the Prime Minister can answer this question. I would like to know why she was referred to the Minister of Finance, who could have responded with the Prime Minister, since I wanted to hear them together.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip194x.u7	Are there any other interventions on the order of business? [[No]] I must tell you, Mr Van Hees, that this is not a completely new debate; it has been repeated many times. The course of action is this: from the moment the subject concerns the whole government, the issues are reoriented to the Prime Minister. In the case where the matter relates only to the Minister's jurisdiction, in this case the Minister of Finance, the Minister of Finance responds. I have a lot of examples – but it's for my memoirs – for which I had to encourage the Prime Minister to answer the questions, but he did. The statistics show that the Prime Minister answered no less than 67% of the questions in this House during this Parliament. It's a record! I will prove to you that this debate is not new. I reviewed the Integral Report of the meeting of 10 April 2008, then chaired by my honorable predecessor Herman Van Rompuy. After a whole discussion he says: "Again, tradition wants the government to decide who answers to multiple questions on the same subject." In the present case, six questions were put to the Prime Minister about the Paradise Papers and six questions to the Minister of Finance. Hence the decision. Mr Van Hees has the floor for a reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip194x.u8	Mr. President, thank you for your statistics. Above all, they show that there is a lot of mess in this government that cannot get along and where the Prime Minister is often forced to intervene. In substance, your definition of the issues that were to be addressed to the Prime Minister corresponds exactly to the introduction I made on why the Prime Minister needed to be heard. Obviously, you do not apply your own rules.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip194x.u9	But we will stick to what has been decided.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip194x.u10	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this morning I read in a Flemish newspaper that Proximus charges for old telephones, which have already been paid off by customers. Minister De Croo, who is responsible for Proximus, says that Proximus should not treat its customers as dairy cows. I fully agree with that, which is indeed unacceptable. In September 2016, I presented the issue to Minister De Croo in a written question. In the answer it sounded that there was no dirt in the air. I have the question here with me who's interested in it. I was particularly shocked and outraged by the reply of the Minister and of Proximus regarding the number of customers in such a situation. The answer I got from Proximus was that those numbers are confidential. Ladies and gentlemen, let me be clear, such a situation is unacceptable to me and my group. It is unacceptable for Proximus to charge its customers for old, discarded devices that are no longer in use. According to testimonies in the newspaper, this is a vulnerable group of elderly people. It's really scandalous that Proximus makes dormant money on the hood of those people. Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, these are unacceptable practices for a public undertaking such as Proximus. I therefore call on Proximus to stop this type of malpractice immediately and to behave like a customer-friendly public undertaking which complies with the values imposed by the government on public undertakings. Mr. Secretary, will you call Proximus to stop this? Do you have a view of the number of customers who have been paying up to five euros each month for end-of-life telephones for years? Shouldn't Proximus refund the wrongly received amounts to its customers?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip194x.u11	Mr President, yesterday, as Minister for Consumer Affairs, I took note of this problem. I will continue to deal with this together with my colleague De Croo, who is responsible for public enterprises. From my competence in consumer matters, like you and many others, I was very indignant about the practices and reaction of the Proximus spokesperson. As Minister of Consumer Affairs, I immediately took steps to ask Proximus for text and explanation, including the questions you are asking me today. It is then about the number of subscribers, the communication to those subscribers, the way of charging and the way in which this will be resolved. That letter arrived at Proximus today. I believe that Proximus has already taken a first step by providing the first information fairly quickly. I would just like to read out what I received a few hours ago. I quote: "First, the number of customers who are renting an aircraft today is about 150 000. Since the obligation to hire an aircraft was abolished in 1987, most of the contracts concerned contracts after that date." So one hundred and fifty thousand people are in that situation. That is the first answer to your question. "Secondly, the management of Proximus acknowledges that, despite transparency, there are customers with long-term contracts who are not always aware that a purchase can be a more advantageous solution. Proximus will work out a procedure for those customers with a long-term contract in the coming days." I believe that this is an important and positive matter. I will explain this further from my competence in consumer matters, together with the Minister for Public Enterprises and Proximus, so that these 150,000 customers get very clear communication and very clear agreements are made.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip194x.u12	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. I think the clients of Proximus need clarity. I am pleased that you have asked Proximus for words and explanations. Indeed, further research is needed into the situations in which people are unjustly paying invoices for devices that have long since ceased to be used. We need to get rid of this kind of practice. If it turns out that people have paid wrongly, I urge them to be compensated for that. That's important. Proximus is a public body. I believe that the values of customer friendliness, transparency, ethical and correct entrepreneurship are appropriate here. Together, we must ensure that these matters are complied with, not only in the case of Proximus, but also in the case of other public undertakings. I hope you will act clearly and quickly in this matter with Minister De Croo.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip194x.u13	Mr President, Mr Deputy Prime Minister, as noted in the press, the turnover of bpost has increased thanks to the development of e-commerce and certain acquisitions. The increase represents a jump of just over 20% in the third quarter compared to the same period in 2016. This brings us to an amount of 650 million euros, carried by the proper handling of the parcel delivery segment as well as by an acquisition in particular, on which I return in the future. As the CEO of bpost has pointed out, the strong growth of the company is due to two elements: a booming e-commerce, particularly in Belgium; important bpost acquisitions including Radial, an American company, which is not only active in the delivery of packages but also specialized in everything related to e-commerce logistics – it helps online stores to manage their flows and inventory in an optimal manner. These factors lead me to ask you several questions about e-commerce in Belgium. Could you give us an overview of his current situation in our country in relation to other European countries? It is a fact that e-commerce plays a major role in the development of a company as bpost, Belgium's largest employer. European and global competition is very important. How do you see bpost in this environment? Does she have the kidneys strong enough to become a major player in the logistics of this e-commerce? In 2016, three-quarters of Belgians made online purchases for an average expenditure of €1,265. It is online that many companies record this growth. How do you define the role of bpost in supporting these companies and SMEs?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip194x.u14	Mr Burton, thank you for your question. Indeed, the growth of e-commerce is very strong in Belgium. We were a little late compared to other European countries, but this delay is being caught up. This growth is expressed in SMEs. More traditional Belgian companies are taking a step towards e-commerce, which is a good thing. The development of e-commerce is an opportunity for everyone and is not restricted to large international companies. Bpost is a strong player and business partner, with strong activities in the field of parcels, in Belgium but also in other countries, for example in the Netherlands. Radial's acquisition strategy you mentioned is important. It is a company present in the United States in a market that is more advanced in multi-channel management. We observe that in Europe this market is developing and bpost is currently in a very interesting situation, becoming a reliable partner in this field. Two weeks ago, the new Brussels X sorting centre was opened, becoming the second largest sorting centre in Europe and the largest in Benelux. Bpost is today a leading-edge, very efficient company that takes its destiny into its own hands and is an increasingly indispensable player in this part of the growing market. The volume of letters is declining and we know that. But as far as packages are concerned, growth is very strong. In my view, bpost is in a position of pole position in this market, which is important for its economic role and, certainly, also for the creation of jobs in this sector.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip194x.u15	Thank you, Deputy Prime Minister, for your answer. I'll bounce on two elements. First of all, we can look forward to seeing the economic development of our SMEs. That's very positive. The situation is improving and we live it day by day. Secondly, we can be proud that a small country like Belgium is home to a company like bpost, which is developing. Let us hope that it will serve as an example for other companies.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip194x.u16	Mr. Chair, Minister, to be credible, one must be exemplary, especially when one is a public authority or a public agent. In the fight against fraud and tax evasion, Belgium is anything but exemplary. The environmentalists have been denouncing him for years. The journalistic work carried out within the framework of Paradise Papers is a new illustration of this. Two examples deserve to be analysed. The first example is the Nike company based in Belgium. This company has an agreement with the tax administration (a ruling) which allows it, despite hundreds of millions of euros per year of profits, to pay taxes at a rate of 4 or 5%. What should be the opinion of artisans, SMEs that normally discharge their tax and social obligations on an annual basis? The second example is even more shocking, minister. This is the Belgian Capital Investment Corporation (SBI) of the Federal State, which invests in the Virgin Islands, one of the tax havens on the Belgian list of tax havens. Who has decided to invest in the Virgin Islands? Who is the minister who endorsed this decision? Why did the ministers who succeeded him not make sure that the SBI was disengaged from tax havens? What is the responsibility of past directors, Mr D'Hondt, and Mr Fontinoy in this situation? These are all questions that we want to get answers to. Yesterday, Minister, you offended the situation. But it was Mr Johan Van Overtveld who criticized the Minister of Finance or the other way round. We must not go very far to look for responsibilities, they are in your head, in the head of the majority. You have the tutelage of these bodies. It was the federal state that decided on the possibility of ruling. What hypocrisy! What a lack of sense of reality! Minister, what are you waiting for to act quickly and concretely for more justice and tax efficiency?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip194x.u17	Minister, through Paradise Papers, there are several scandals nestled like Russian dolls. The leak itself is a new mega-run. After SwissLeaks, after the Offshore Leaks, after the Panama Papers, there are Paradise Papers. They allow multinationals around the world and in Belgium to escape tax. They allow the richest to escape tax. But we continue to apply what the minister of Louis XIV already did, and that you also do: "Sir, let us tax the poorest, they are more numerous." The government doesn't do anything. The right-wing Members of the Panama Papers Committee not only did nothing, but even sabotaged the work of the committee. It's a scandal! But behind this scandal, there are other scandals. First, there is the scandal that the state, not only does nothing against tax havens, but also is a shareholder of a company located in a tax haven. This is a second scandal! Then there's a third scandal intertwined in that one. The state owns only 4% of this company located in a tax haven. Who is the true shareholder of this company? It is Ackermans & van Haaren, the company of billionaire Luc Bertrand. Hasard: Luc Bertrand's daughter is also Didier Reynders' chief of staff. Didier Reynders was the competent minister at the time! [[Brouhahaha]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip194x.u18	Mr Van Hees, individual cases are not dealt with in oral questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip194x.u19	Mr President, I have asked that my question be addressed to the Prime Minister, the Minister of Finance and Mr Reynders, because he has a serious responsibility in this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip194x.u20	It doesn't change anything.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip194x.u21	We didn't deign to bring Mr. Reynders in. Unfortunately, he is not here to answer me, because I would like to hear him on this question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip194x.u22	You still have 30 seconds. That's the game.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip194x.u23	We are not in Spain!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip194x.u24	No. Not at all.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip194x.u25	It's good to criticize the Spanish government, but we have to take seeds.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip194x.u26	Mr. Van Hees, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip194x.u27	Let me express myself, and go to the end of my reasoning. The Chief of Staff of Mr. Reynders is the Administrator of Ackermans & van Haaren and the Chair of the SBI is also the right-hand man of Didier Reynders. But, be assured, there are also people from the Open Vld and CD&V who are involved in these same conflicts of interest with Ackermans & van Haaren. That's to please you! With connections to Hans D'Hondt, the number 1 FPS Finance. So that still makes a huge number of conflicts of interest that really pose a question! I think we have a state scandal here. Mr. Chair, here are my questions to the minister – the only one who wants to answer me. Is it normal, Minister, for the Crown to be a shareholder of an offshore corporation? Is it normal for FPS Finance Number 1 to be a director of such a corporation? Is it normal to have these collusions of interest with MR, CD&V, Open Vld and Holding Ackermans & van Haaren? Is it normal, Minister, that of the twenty-eight tax havens affected by Paradise Papers, only four are included in the official Belgian list of tax havens? And finally, minister – if you're interested – why were the two or three shy measures against tax evasion that were in your plan never implemented? On the contrary, members of the right – including those of the N-VA – voted against in the Panama Papers Committee. Can you explain this strangeness to us?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip194x.u28	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, with the Paradise Papers we have to re-establish that there are large companies that are trying to escape their social duty to contribute to our well-being. There are companies that try not to pay taxes. It's called tax avoidance. I hear some say that nothing illegal is happening, so nothing is going on. Of course there's something going on. After all, if these large companies do not make the contribution they have to make, then the modal Belgian and modal SMEs in our country, who do pay their taxes correctly, actually have to pay too much. We must therefore intervene here. Mr President, the question is whether we are doing enough to stop this tax avoidance, this immoral behaviour? It is often said that this can only be resolved at international level, which is true, but also at its own level a few things can be done. Minister, you may recall that following a European proposal for a directive, just before the summer, Commissioner Moscovici gave you a serious blow when he said that you, as a Belgian minister, are constantly on the brake. There is the recent CFC directive, on which I will not go into detail, but which also serves to prevent international tax avoidance. This directive must be transposed before 2019, but you decide as one of the few within Europe to do so only a year later. Recently, there was also the European Anti-Avoidance Directive, which you said should not even be transposed. By this I mean that we can do something at international level, but that we are getting signals from Europe that you are constantly on the brakes. (...): (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip194x.u29	Not me, but the European Commissioner, you can ignore that. Minister, I would like to hear from you why you are constantly on the brakes at European level, precisely where we can make a big deal of progress? Hopefully and finally, in the future, you will take a leading role at that level in combating international tax fraud and international tax avoidance.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip194x.u30	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Finance Minister, one more scandal! It's not the first or the last. We've seen half a dozen of them in recent years, each time with the same scenario. A number of very concrete information points to proven facts of tax evasion, and also to systems for optimising organised tax evasion. Every time, we expect a reaction from the political world. We had one collectively with the Panama Papers Commission. But, as you know – and we will discuss it next week – there is a deep disagreement in this House between the vision of the majority and the vision of the opposition. We consider that you do not go far enough in the recommendations that will be submitted and discussed here. In concrete terms, this means that there is, in the minds of a number of you, a form of blindness towards the massive phenomenon of tax havens! With tax havens and tax fraud, state funds are empty and it leads you and your government to pick up from the workers' pocket. That is what is happening with the scandal of international tax evasion! Mr Minister, yesterday you submitted us your general policy note, a page and a half on tax fraud and almost nothing on international tax fraud, except the Cayman tax. This famous Caiman tax, which, from DIY to DIY, is now expected to raise 500 million euros, while, in the ranks of the majority, Mr. Van Rompuy in particular, it is explained that this will not exceed EUR 40 million. What a laugh! What you're doing isn't up to the stakes! Minister, we are now waiting for concrete answers on your intentions. So, of course, I cannot ignore this new problem of a public society that is now pointed out because of its implications and interests in certain tax havens, in particular the SBI, the Belgian International Investment Corporation, with, at its head, someone who is indeed part of a political cabinet. I won't mention a name. I will indeed abide by our rules. But, at last, it is not the first time that the financial group Ackermans & van Haaren – it must be said – has been involved in scandals. This means that there is a direct connection between this group, this holding company and certain spheres of the state. This is unacceptable! Minister, we need explanations and transparency!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip194x.u31	Mr Minister, next week we will be debating the conclusions of the Panama Papers Committee. We are sure that they will not be unanimous. They should not even satisfy you, since on several points, the recommendations fall short of the measures you advocated in your action plan, which was rather minimalist. You didn't put the bar very high and the majority still manages to get under it. The recommendations, in any case, will not satisfy all those concerned by the problem, neither the judges in charge of the fight against financial crime, nor the police officers of the OECDFO, nor the agents of the Special Inspectorate of Taxes, who all call for additional resources. The report has not yet been approved in plenary session, which we now – we had to expect – discover new scandals about offshore practices. But the worst thing, and the arms have fallen on us, is that the state itself is caught in the jar of jam via this Belgian investment company that is under our authority. "We'll all go to heaven," the movie says. We are already there, "unknown of our own free will", since the Belgian State is present in the Virgin Islands. How can we believe that the federal state can be intransigent with others, with fraudsters, when it is not even vigilant with regard to its own investments? But this revelation was not enough to move the majority. Yesterday, in the Committee on Finance, an amendment tabled by our colleague, Mr Vanvelthoven, was not even approved by the majority, although it would have the effect of making this type of investment in tax havens completely outlawed. In this context, we would have liked to hear a strong speech from the Prime Minister. We will hear a deafening silence from him. If not, can you, in your capacity as Minister of Finance, speak in the House to restore the credibility or even the honour of the federal state? Can you finally announce any measures, any additional means to convince us that you have finally taken the measure of the emotion of the population with regard to these repetitive scandals?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip194x.u32	Minister, it was Ronald Reagan who once said: "Government is not the solution of the problem; government is the problem." I think Ronald Reagan was right. This is one of the biggest Belgian jokes ever, the Van Overtveldtgate on the island of Tortola. For those who should not know it, it is located somewhere in the Caribbean, has about 55 square kilometres and 23 000 people live there. Through the BMI and the FPIM, the Belgian government has several investment companies under the supervision of this minister. Apparently, it is a PO Box company that invests money through this tax haven in a Vietnamese port where Belgium has all kinds of interests. The Socialists will remember that. If I'm not mistaken, Steve Stevaert was once president of that company that led the port to some extent. Among other things, I am thinking of the Antwerp Waterworks under the leadership of an N-VA chairman, who has invested a lot of money in this. Today we see that these funds must apparently be used by this route to finance our government partly duty-free. Mr Minister, anyone who sees the splinter in the eye of another but not the beam in his own eye has a big problem, especially when it comes to the government. Now it turns out that the big boss of the tax administration for more than ten years, until a few months ago, was part of the board of directors of that investment company, there is nevertheless a huge credibility and authority problem in your government, in your government. So, Minister, what are you going to do about this? How are you going to act, not only to solve the concrete problem, but also to restore the credibility of your government vis-à-vis the small middlemen, the SMEs and individual taxpayers who are being treated for the least harsh and hard, while the government is apparently again threatening to go free in this scandal?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip194x.u33	Mr Minister, it was again high days for those who are trying to cast doubt on your policy, your decisive fiscal policy, your fraud policy and your intentions in this area. Unfortunately, they forget three things. We are talking here about a number of activities that started in the middle or late 1990s or early 2000. I even look at the greens. Ladies and gentlemen of Green, you were there. You've been there. You did a good job. Those activities took place during that period. Above all, you should be outraged at why you didn't see it or why you didn't do anything about it. At the same time, I heard a number of colleagues mention company names here, without any research or solid information. I find that as reprehensible as what is going on around possible tax avoidance, because that is not the way to besmirch people and businesses. This morning I heard a minister in Aalst say that the police and the courts of the 1980s and 1990s are no longer the same as they are today. Now, in the area of taxation, ladies and gentlemen, that is exactly the same. For those who have not noticed, things have changed. I shall mention some of them. The una-via law seeks better punishment. Foreign activities and revenues must be declared mandatory. I am also thinking of the caiman tax and its entanglement. Mr Laaouej, Mr Vanvelthoven, with regard to the BMI, thanks to its caiman tax and its entanglement, we may be able to address its founders. Perhaps you should start to harden your cash, because I know where we are going to find out: when such activities are being set up. Moreover, Mr Van Overtveldt, you were the first to share rulings. We are not stopping, because the 120 recommendations we will make from the Panama Commission mean steps forward. The involvement of the BMI should be investigated. I ask you very clearly, Minister, how you will do that, how long it will take and what you intend to do about the implementation of the recommendations of the Panama Commission. I have one more answer for Mr Dewinter. We have stopped the activity of INDUS in Vietnam upon our arrival.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip194x.u34	Minister, after the LuxLeaks, the SwissLeaks and the Panama Papers there are now the Paradise Papers. Once again, the picture is confirmed that some companies are looking for the least taxed road through tax havens, whether legally or not. This gives the impression that Parliament is looking at it and doing nothing. Nothing could be further from the truth. Over the last ten years, we have all made numerous recommendations to the government in the parliamentary committee of inquiry on tax fraud. We have also certified the recommendations by means of legislative proposals. It may be said that the fight against tax fraud over the past ten years has been a key priority of Parliament and the various governments active during that period. So that image doesn't add up. Moreover, after each disclosure, there will be a double taxation convention and data will be better shared by Member States. Mr Laaouej, we have done an exceptionally good job around the Panama Papers. During a year and a half, we have worked hard and looked at the various parts of the judicial and administrative system to determine where there is still room for improvement, so that the government and Parliament can continue to fight tax fraud. Let us be honest, in recent years we have been moving forward and achieving better and better results. One of the elements that should make it possible for us to avoid such scandals is the caiman tax. Indeed, we have often had to make minor repairs to the law on this subject, but the caiman tax has certainly given us the opportunity to identify the international movements of income to be taxed and ultimately to tax where they should be taxed. Above all, we notice in the Paradise Papers that a Belgian investment company is involved and that is really unacceptable. We are calling for the greatest possible transparency on this issue. Such a situation can and should not be allowed. The government must always act in accordance with the highest ethical standards. We cannot accept anything else in Parliament. Mr. Secretary, who was informed? Was there not at any time at the FPIM anyone aware of the location of that seat in the British Virgin Islands? In order to address investment in tax havens, a new list of tax havens should be drawn up as a matter of urgency. When can we expect this new list of tax havens? Is it still advisable to wait for a common European initiative in this area? Finally, yesterday you spoke of a fruitful Ecofin meeting. Can you describe that more? Do you notice the willingness to step up the fight against tax avoidance together?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip194x.u35	Minister, let me start with a quote from Sacha Guitry that comes to mind. He said, "We are all actors, some rather actors." That's the only excuse I'll find in the excess of languages I've heard from some. I think it is scandalous, as a result of certain press articles, to immediately shout "to the wolf" in relation to certain people – who are not present – and in relation to a work that has characterized a year and a half of labor for all the colleagues who participated in the Panama Papers Committee. Mr Van Hees, talking about sabotage is not an excess of language but an outrage to all your colleagues who have given hundreds of hours of work and dozens of hearings to try to bring their best efforts together in the fight against tax fraud! 132 recommendations, which we will discuss in the coming days, will expand the arsenal already set up in recent years. Mr Van Hees, these recommendations will make it possible to combat tax fraud more effectively. How can we excite everything that has been done in recent years? We have done more in recent years on innovation than we have done in previous legislatures. The Cayman tax has the merit of existence! It can be refined but it has the merit of existence! The carat tax, why didn't you set it up? They exist today! Everything is perfect but today they exist! Minister, I am not going to go back to the facts and what has been said in the press, it is becoming a real vaudeville. How will you react to what has been declared? What is your vision? What is the action? What are you going to do at the international level – the place where the real fight against this deviant taxation is going to take place – especially in view of the Ecofin meeting to be held next December?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip194x.u36	Mr Minister, the question that every sane person must ask is how many of these companies can actually be put in a small mailbox? That seems to me to be a very difficult task. The question is why are so many companies in the Virgin Islands or other exotic locations? The reason is that people want to hide the money, not to pay a fair contribution to society, the society that companies need very much for innovation support, for all kinds of support, for the commitment to mobility and so on. Just as any form of politics must be practiced with a dose of ethics, we must also inject a solid portion of ethics into certain segments of the business community. I would like to stress certain segments of the market, because all these unfresh practices do a great deal of injustice to the good-mannered entrepreneur, not least in our Belgian SME fabric. Politics, even though it must always follow in part the creativity and inventiveness of some who believe that it is necessary to escape the Belgian rules, should certainly not remain impotent in this respect. This Parliament has worked out more than 130 recommendations. They'll be discussed next week. Minister, your own anti-fraud policy paper was also a very substantial document. It was about simplifying recovery, about professional secrecy, about cooperation between Justice and Finance. There are a lot of opportunities and coat-sticks to do better in the future. Colleagues, we must not study or analyse anymore, the analyses have been made. We do not need new study committees, we mainly need political action. What we need to do first is to set a good example and to ensure that all public participation is fully screened so that we do not again face new farces. Minister, in the coming weeks you will also have the opportunity to do better at the international forum, to opt for the strictest models and to study the real burden. Is that less than half the tax rates in Belgium? Then this construction can be regarded as suspicious, without having to carry out major investigations. My question, Minister, is what are the next steps you will take with your entire government team to tackle these practices with tax havens?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip194x.u37	Minister, all too often I have been standing here on account of some tax haven. I don't think there's any exotic location left that didn't occur in some leak. However, what is paradise for a very small wreath of select people is the desert for ordinary citizens and SMEs. A desert of EUR 10 to 20 billion in solidarity that escapes our country in order not to pay taxes and somehow contribute to our society in these harsh economic times. Mr Minister, you are the postman who drops invoice after invoice into the ordinary people's mailbox, but who is extremely slow to demand a fair tax at international and domestic level from those who have a mailbox in a more exotic place. Ten to twenty billion, that is 1 000 to 2 000 euros per Belgian per year. This will close the gap in our budget. That budget for which, according to Europe, you have already failed for the second time. The worst part is that these practices are legal. They are unethical, they are antisocial, we yell murder and fire here over and over again, but the legal loopholes remain. It is your responsibility, it is your chance, to realize what the people really ask. It is your responsibility to do what can be done. We know what can be done for ten years. You can attract more people who specialize in tax fraud. You state yourself, in your policy paper on page 26, that you are on your gums as far as the audit services at Finance are concerned. It says everything when a investigating judge screams for more manpower, not for the first time. We in Ecolo-Groen have long been on the barricades for fair taxation. We did so at the time of the lifting of banking secrecy. But, Mr Van Biesen, somehow a machination had to be devised for a way out for the fraudsters. You're holding on to the friendly settlement. This led to Kazachgate! It has to be done by a majority who, over and over and over again, subscribes such a solution to our legislation. You do that at European level. You do that to us. That time is over. That's accessory from now on.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip194x.u38	Mr President, Minister, we can now talk about 'TaxLeaks'. After all, taxes flow out of your state treasury. The Belgian State is also happy to be present on the Virgin Islands. So we can speak of publicists who have suddenly become birds of paradise. The whole story reminds me of Dexia. The members of Dexia's board of directors didn't know anything either. Think of Dehaene, Janssens, Di Rupo and Van Rompuy. None of them knew anything. So, Minister, I have a real déjà vu, now that I have heard Mr Hans D'Hondt, the head of your FPS Finance, suddenly declare in his capacity as a member of the Board of Directors of the BMI that he has not seen anything. That's weird. In 2013, it appears that an additional company has been established in Hong Kong in order to fund these funds. We also see that the subsidiary of the Antwerp water intercommunal, with the support of the BMI, is closing millions of euros to the port of Hai Phong. It cannot therefore be said that nothing of this was known. After all, that Vietnamese port was under Steve Stevaert's supervision. So I can only say that the traditional lots have a lot of butter on their heads. What can we say about the large companies in Belgium? That is that Belgium is a tax haven for them. They receive generous subsidies and tax advantages. However, once they have tasted these paradise benefits, they want more and therefore go to a virgin island like Bermuda to set up a P.O. Box company there. On the other hand, SMEs pay. They pay the full amount of taxes. They pay the full amount of withholding tax, i.e. 30%. For them, Belgium is absolutely not a tax haven. For them, Belgium is the Devil's Island, the tax penal colony, one might say. The common man's really screwed now. The common man has to pay taxes without a P.O. Box and he is going to do groceries on which he pays the full percentage of VAT, without being able to conclude any ruling. Mr. Secretary, when are you coming up with these fair taxes? Will politics finally take steps now, or should we wait for the citizens to take action?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip194x.u39	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Collègues, after the SwissLeaks, the LuxLeaks and the Panama Papers, we do indeed have the Paradise Papers. I would like to point out in advance that, like you, until now, I do not really know anything more than what has been published in the media. I assume this is true on millions of documents. I don't have those documents, and neither do the tax administration. Here and there, I have heard that the study on the Panama Papers has produced very little in comparison with the proceeds from, for example, the HSBC file. The explanation for this is simple: if the tax administration does not receive all the documents that appear to be there, then it is not surprising that the administration does not have sufficient evidence to do what should be done. With regard to the Panama Papers and the related research, I can tell you that its revenue has so far been EUR 10 million for the State Treasury. That is little, but I note that the revenue in the Netherlands is 1.8 million, so barely a fifth of what has been achieved here. In any case, I would once again call on the journalists to make available the documents, which seem to be available. With regard to the Panama Papers Committee, I look forward to the conclusions. On this basis, I will quickly take practical steps. To this end, I hope to be able to count on the cooperation of this Parliament. Colleagues, tax evasion, but also tax avoidance, rightly evokes indignation. On the one hand, the average citizen and the average company, which pays its contributions correctly, take it very easily and quite rightly no longer that there is still a small group that constantly finds all kinds of shortcuts. I fully share that indignation. On the other hand, as in the Paradise Papers, we can hardly call the revelations surprising. After all, it is often about constructions on tax havens that date from a time when it was almost bon ton, I would almost dare to say, to set up such constructions. Meanwhile, public appreciation, as well as the vision of policy makers and business, has changed radically. Quite rightly, because such practices are very damaging to tax justice and, at the same time, perhaps this concept still needs to be clarified a little bit for the credibility of the companies and entities concerned. Constructions in tax havens are therefore not a new element. What is new, however, is that measures are being taken to combat these constructions at the national and international levels. The combination of these two elements is very important. The measures taken at the national level will have an effect only in an international context that goes in the same direction. On both national and international levels, we have worked very intensively in recent years. With regard to our own legislation, this government is the first to have effectively taxed constructions in tax havens through the Cayman tax mechanism. That was not the case in the past. The Cayman tax was and is a new and innovative instrument that requires a learning process, so that we can indeed refine and strengthen it gradually. I can assure you, on the basis of the discussions I experience in the European context, that the caiman tax is being followed up. Several countries are considering similar legislation. By the way, I would like to point out that at the beginning of October we again added some reinforcements to the caiman tax. For example, the so-called double structures will no longer be able to escape the caiman tax. In addition to the Cayman tax, in recent years we have taken a wide range of measures to combat fraud and evasion. Allow me to mention a few examples of an arsenal of dozens of measures: access to digital evidence, extension of the investigation period when foreign information is obtained, reporting requirements for financial institutions, extension of access to the CCP, investment in personnel and resources to the ISI. I would like to stress once again that the fight against tax fraud is also effective. The year 2016 was a record year: there were 2 500 files dealt with, a record. There was EUR 1.7 billion of sanctions imposed, a record. An effective amount of 255 million euros was collected, including a record. In addition to the measures taken to combat tax fraud, the reform of corporate tax, as it currently stands, will increase tax equity. Many complex tax deductions are reduced. The few remaining are linked to the real economic activity in our country: investment in research and development, recruitment of researchers and real investment. The financing of the reform also contains a great many elements which are part of the fight against tax fraud. Tackling construction can only be effective if this fight is organized on the widest possible international scale. Indeed, fiscal optimisation does not stop at the borders of states. This is why Belgium is actively involved in the various initiatives of the OECD and the European Commission. Belgium was, for example, the first state to have started to exchange its rules with other states. Many initiatives were taken at OECD and Europe level, including BEPS and ATAD. All these directives are contained in the legal texts of the corporate tax reform. It may also have been done with the insinuations that Belgium would be on the brake in this context. Earlier this week, there was indeed an Ecofin meeting where the famous blacklist of tax havens was discussed again and which I strongly advocated, together with all the other colleagues this time, to finalise that list in December. I have also added that it is absolutely essential that this list does not exist on its own, but that it is also subject to sanctions. Finally, I refer to the Belgian Society for International Investment (BMI). I would like to be brief and clear about this: that cannot, of course, be done. It cannot be that an investment company of the government, in any way, is linked to a tax haven. It can't be. It is a dossier dating back to the 1990s and that means that there is, of course, a very rich history, which we will be working out very intensively, in such a way that we can see very clearly where decisions have been taken, who has taken them and who is ultimately responsible for what we are experiencing today. I'm gonna do those analyses. They have already started, but first comes the analysis and then comes the conclusion. In any case, I can assure you that measures will be taken to exclude such complications in the future. I will also ask the relevant authorities to make themselves available for an explanation to Parliament. Maybe in the past people didn't see any bones in these kinds of constructions. Well, I do see bones in that and I don't want this to repeat itself.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip194x.u40	Minister, except for the denunciation of the practices and presence of the Belgian Investment Corporation in the Virgin Islands, your answer is as long as it is inconsistent. You reject the responsibility for journalists, who have not sent you their files, for other European states, for those who practice tax evasion on a large scale. But, you Minister of Finance and chief legislator, you seem to have no responsibility and you say you are satisfied with the current situation. What hypocrisy! What hypocrisy! As my colleague Almaci said, you are complicit in not acting. You have made a commitment that the leaders of the company will come and explain themselves to Parliament to make this matter clear. However, much more needs to be done in the fight against tax evasion. It is therefore important to provide the necessary means for your services and justice. Transparency must be put into the multinationals, through a cadastre of fortunes. The list of tax havens needs to be updated. Six months ago, I was questioning you here for this purpose. You must participate in good faith in the European plan, rather than sabotage it - as you do systematically. Finally, what is immoral must be made illegal. These tax avoidance practices, which cost more than €20 billion to the state budget, SMEs and citizens, are unbearable. We expect legislation. To this end, we will submit proposals to you. We need to get back to tax justice. It's urgent! Minister, you do not seem to be aware of this.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip194x.u41	Mr. Minister, you have no shortage of nerves! You claim that we have worked nationally and internationally. The international press as a whole, however, identifies you in person as the saboteur of any European breakthrough in the fight against tax fraud and in the search for tax harmonisation. You yourself claim to be a supporter of tax competition. You're making us a national list. For my part, I will present you with a very simple one, one which is intended to really fight against tax havens and which is constituted by the recommendations that the majority rejected at the end of the Panama Papers Committee's work. These are the recommendations that needed to be made in order to combat tax evasion effectively! You say you worked hard for a year, with the majority. It's true, but you broke this work and threw it in the trash. You met outside the committee to put everything in the trash and then present your text. For example, out of the 28 Paradise Papers tax havens, only four are included in the official Belgian list of tax havens. This is a problem that will not be resolved with your recommendations! An OECD recommendation was also disposed of in the garbage. It concerns the creation of a special tax unit for the greatest fortunes, the richest 0.01%. You also did not follow this OECD recommendation. Finally, there is a social class in this country that does not pay taxes and, this social class, it is the great bourgeoisie. It is because this government is the government of the rich that it is also the government of the rich fraudsters!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip194x.u42	Mr Minister, your indignation and the indignation of the entire N-VA group about tax avoidance is very unbelievable because the great leader of the N-VA, the head of the finance minister, said very recently, on 3 October, at VTM, that tax avoidance is not a disgrace, but a civic duty. (...): Of course!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip194x.u43	Of course. The Open Vld is also behind that. Tax avoidance is a disgrace and certainly not a civil duty! This is almost a call from the N-VA, of which this minister is a pawn, to avoid taxes. Minister, with what you have done, you have indicated that you are always taking the side of the multinationals, that you are constantly blocking the European fight against tax avoidance and that you are the one with whom rich business leaders are allowed to come to coffee to discuss their conflict with the BBI. You are the minister who has been informed of fraud in your cabinet by a convicted fraudster and at the same time you are the minister who has recently increased VAT and excise duties for ordinary people.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip194x.u44	Minister, you have given us an answer that is a lukewarm response. You are telling us that you are going to work on the basis of the recommendations of the Panama Papers Committee, those of the majority. It's warm water, too. Luke water on lukewarm water, it remains lukewarm water! Do not imagine for a moment that you will be able, on the basis of the work of the majority, to advance the fight against tax havens! It is even the opposite that will happen because, basically, the only things that were expected of us are to be able to give additional means to the State services (tax administration, justice, specialized police) to fight with equal arms against those fraudsters who organize themselves at the international level and who rob each day, whenever they draw from the State funds by not paying their taxes! Another point, Minister, you say to us: "We are going to settle this at international level, at European level." The problem is that Wolfgang Schäuble, German Minister of Finance, points out to you directly as one of the precisely responsible for the inaction at European level on the harmonisation of the fight against tax evasion. Here are the facts! Mr Moscovici does not say otherwise! Then, at some point, it will have to be possible to assume that you, your majority and the government as a whole, are defending certain interests that are not in the interests of the greatest number, which are not in the interests of the workers, those who every month see on their payroll that they are withheld from tax while the others organize tax fraud! This is the real scandal of your government!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip194x.u45	Colleagues, I have found the speech of our colleague Vincent Scourneau quite excellent. To use the quote of Sacha Guitry, I will tell you, Mr Scourneau, I will tell you, Mr Van de Velde, Mr Minister: "You are not actors in the fight against tax fraud. You're comedians!" You're pretending and this fake look is unbearable. You're pretending to move forward to better conceal your immobilism. You are referring to international measures, although it is well known that every time it comes to implementing European directives, you have a minimalist approach. You say you are waiting for the conclusions of the Panama Papers Commission. We've been working for 18 months and you've been waiting. Get out of your mind! Be proactive, Minister! Finally, I would like to give a final example. In the policy note you presented to us yesterday, you announced in the chapter on combating tax fraud that control services should be strengthened. What is found in this chapter? Not a strengthening, simply the admission that the number of FPS Finance officers has decreased by 4,000 since 2010. Is this the strengthening, in your view, of the control services? Is this a decrease of 4,000 positions in the FPS Finance? How do you want any credit to be given to you? You may not have an obligation to do so because tax avoidance practices are constantly being repeated, but you have at least one obligation to do so. You have an obligation to strengthen the resources available to financial magistrates. You have an obligation to strengthen the resources available to the ISI. You have an obligation to strengthen the means at the disposal of the OCDFO and on that there is nothing to see. As long as you do, you will have no credibility!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip194x.u46	Mr. Secretary, you yourself put your finger on the wound with your statement. You said you only know what you read in the press and you call on the journalists to hand you all the documents. This is a sign of a lack of power on the part of a minister who, in this file, has to establish that his own investment company is ultimately complicit in avoiding taxes. Let us be honest, you say that these are constructions from the 1990s. No, four years ago, after doing the same thing in the Caribbean Islands, a ghost company was set up in Hong Kong to ensure that taxes were not paid. That is precisely the problem, Minister. How can you tell citizens, SMEs, that they have to apply the law, that they have to pay taxes, that they can't avoid taxes if the government doesn't do it itself and sets a bad example and ultimately gets rid of the criminal behavior of tax avoidance? The big problem is that your credibility is at stake. In any other country, the Minister would resign in such cases and after such a scandal and would make it clear that such practices should not be tolerated in a public undertaking.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip194x.u47	Mr Minister, an in-depth investigation is effective, especially in the BMI dossier. What always strikes me in this kind of file that relates to the past is that I see the PS and the sp.a here in optima forma. They are calling for what is now happening on matters that have taken place in the past. To be honest, I find that rather pathetic. Mr Minister, in addition to the investigation and all the measures that we have already put in place and will continue to put in place, the best way to close the loopholes is simply to leave them out of the way. This is what has been neglected in the past, in particular to ensure transparent, simple and clear taxation, which means that constructions and all kinds of new inventive things are no longer needed to avoid taxes. Well, with two historic tax shifts you go into history as the one who has changed taxation. Mrs. Almaci, you're laughing. The times of crisis, that will be at Almaci's house. I've got the numbers right here. This year, we have 1.8 % growth, 3.9 % investment growth, 4.5 % export growth and, in addition, a budget balance that now has a surplus of 10 billion compared to that of 2013 which was redder than the PS. At the same time, you have collected a maximum amount of fraud money. The tax burden has fallen from 52.7 % to 50.4 %. That is the result, Mrs Almaci. Minister, you are the best money-back guarantee for the Belgian people, for the Belgian correct taxpayer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip194x.u48	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I call on everyone to continue the ten-year work of this Parliament to combat tax fraud, across all party boundaries, as one of Parliament's basic tasks, rather than always considering who has been the best or the least good student in the last ten to fifteen years. It doesn't matter. Parliament has been working hard on this issue for ten years and has made many recommendations. It is up to Parliament to ensure that these recommendations are implemented by the governments in charge at some point. Furthermore, Minister, I follow you when you say that what happened at the Federal Participation and Investment Company is impossible. You have said that you will go as far as you can until you know who is responsible and you will tell us. We will support you in the sanctioning of the responsible, both administrative and political.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip194x.u49	Minister, like us, you were troubled by the facts revealed this week in the press. Like us, you have found these practices unbearable! You want complete transparency as we do. You have found this unacceptable! You want to find the responsibilities. We too, and that is why, in relation to the measures that will be taken, you can count on us, the majority, the MR Group, to support you. Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip194x.u50	Now, Minister, there will have to be even more punitive action. Those who have raised their voices most strongly this afternoon are precisely those who have concluded most double taxation treaties with tax havens. Stop it! I am very pleased, Minister, that you have changed your party's position or at least your party's emotion. You have literally said today that there may be indignation about tax avoidance. That is in stark contrast to what a notorious observer said about it a month ago, an observer who at that time talked about civic duty. It is precisely this double attitude that is killing us, and it must be stopped. Knowledge is power. There's still a lot of leaking to do. There may still be many leaks, until everything has been leaked from the tax havens. In the light of civic obligations, we call on all those in possession of such files to make those files available to the government and the government, so that the administration can act very decisively.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip194x.u51	I must say that Mr Van de Velde's speech just now illustrates the problem. Through the news we just found out today that the number of wagers is at a record height. I'm sure you don't mind. It would be good to use the money from this fraud for care, education and our social system, but we know how warm the N-VA loves all that. Minister, indignation without action is lost energy. In your case, outrage without action is pure hypocrisy, because you are on the buttons. How can you say that you argued for the blacklist in Europe, when it should have been here in our Parliament a year and a half ago, and that is your responsibility? How can you say and continue to unpack with the Cayman tax, if you have deliberately made it flawed from the outset and meanwhile, by means of the CFC rules in Europe, you are making a Cayman tax as weak as possible for multinationals? You choose this option for our country and you enter it a year later than is required. That's the way you slow down and stand on the brake. I expected you to recruit more specialized personnel after the investigator's call, but you won't. I expected you, in addition to beating the tax Christmas tree, to subtract from those few to which you refer, for example investment, the hard condition that one does not get it when one is in tax havens. I expected you not only to bring the people of the BMI here, but also to audit all the government institutions that are investing to see if they are in fiscal havens. That is the strength the people expect from you. But unfortunately, as hard and as quickly as possible in the area of social fraud, you, members of the majority, are so pitifully slow and flawed in the area of tax fraud. That's proven again.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip194x.u52	Mr Minister, thank you for the answer, but we can only see that good people pay their taxes, sometimes even more than 50%, while others avoid or evade taxes. Tax avoidance is only the result of bad legislation. Indeed, I agree with you, that bad legislation is not just from this government, which has existed for a long time. The previous governments are guilty of this, too. I'm calling you to look at those bad laws. Close the gaps as soon as possible. Convert the recommendations. Make sure the caiman tax gets stricter. Then perhaps we will take steps forward. You've got two more years. For the first three years, you've taken small steps. Now please take those big steps of change. I'm sending a message for all the birds of paradise. If that tax haven is so good, go live there. Go stay on your boat. Stay there and do not give the burden to the good citizens who have to pay double and heavy taxes in this country. Those lovely birds of paradise mean they still have to pay so much taxes. The citizens can't keep taking that.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip194x.u53	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the October bulletin has fallen! The Shuttle.be and TreinTramBus associations say that four out of ten trains in our country are late. The worst is in Namur, the capital of Wallonia. When you take the train to Namur to go to work, there is only one in three trains arriving on time. I read that some figures are disputed. But I also read that the commuters, on the other hand, fully recognize themselves in these figures, which are, unfortunately, a reflection of their sad reality. The causes can be multiple – I want to be a good one – and not all of them are due to the railway company. But the fact is there! You who chaired the Buizingen Commission are well placed to know: the nerve of war is money! You pointed out that the maintenance of the network was essential, and for that, the money is needed. Today, however, the budgetary savings decided at the outset by this government raise questions. These savings have consequences that we are already experiencing today - budget savings for everyone, but also according to a particularly unsustainable distribution key for Wallonia. What hope for improvement for tomorrow? We are still waiting for the management contracts of SNCB, Infrabel, the Multiannual Investment Plan and, soon, you announced it, a transport plan. We'll see what it will do. But today, we do not yet know at all when this government has been in place for more than three years. Minister, do you recognize the relevance of the figures put forward by commuters' associations, representing the daily users of the rail travelling to their workplace? Do you recognize that the primary cause of delays is the maintenance of the network infrastructure? In this context, how can we not fear that the billions of savings imposed on Infrabel will aggravate the already very difficult situation for travellers? Hundreds of thousands of people are waiting for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip194x.u54	Minister, ladies and gentlemen, a headline has led us to ask these questions again here today. Actually, the people on the platform, the commuters, are tired of missing their train, coming home too late and missing connections. What they're tired of most of all is that they're actually being laughed at squarely. Today we have been given proof that the statistics of Infrabel and SNCB are actually fake news. The railway companies say that the punctuality is 85%, although the management agreement actually says it has to be more than 90%. TrainTramBus, Navetteurs.be and Test-Achats say that it is 75% for Antwerp-Brussels, 50% for Ghent-Brussels and 50% for Hasselt-Brussels. Those real punctuality figures are thus completely different from what is being communicated. What I am very sorry about is that SNCB says that everything is in accordance with the rules. Mrs Dutordoir says she wants to be the Taliban of communication, but in this case it remains deafeningly silent. Then I would like to make two observations. Firstly, as far as punctuality itself is concerned, it is only measured from starting point to end point, without taking into account the possibilities of switching. Secondly, if one goes from Brussels to Antwerp, for example, one measures in Antwerp-North and from Ghent to Brussels in Brussels-South, so that the big problem, the bottleneck in Brussels itself, is never included. The second observation concerns the cause of the delays. In the past, it has always been said that third parties were the main cause of delay. Today it appears that more than 20% of the delays are due to signal failures, 17% to consideration and 12% to equipment. Thus, more than 40% has to do with the maintenance of the outdated infrastructure of the network, which leads to those delays. Forty per cent of the delays, I quote what the organisations are saying, and I have already said this here in Parliament for a long time, because of the savings we are experiencing on the ground today. So do not talk about Murphy's law, but about the Michel administration's law that leads to these savings. Mr President, first of all, do you recognise that it is possible to communicate more transparently about actual punctuality? Secondly, do you recognise that the savings lead to poorer maintenance and therefore worse punctuality? Thirdly, that is the most important thing for those who may miss their train again this evening. What short-term measures do you plan to drastically improve punctuality?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip194x.u55	Ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to stress that, in addition to safety and communication for passengers in the event of disruption, punctuality is one of the three main priorities for the management of the railways. Following the deterioration of punctuality in the last half of 2016, I asked, at the end of 2016, that the two companies designate line managers to manage line incidents and see why punctuality was deteriorating. An improvement was therefore recorded in the first quadrimester 2017. The causes of delays are multiple and, of course, all the factors identified need to be addressed. For example, I have insisted with infrastructure managers on the best planning of the works so that they will have as little impact as possible on travellers, just as I have insisted with SNCB that the first departures take place on time. Indeed, 15% of the first train departures are delayed, which is totally unacceptable. It should be noted, however, that these actions are not sufficient because they do not produce sufficient results. I am not satisfied with the findings either. I want results. Hence my request to SNCB and Infrabel to draw up a detailed and documented plan of operational actions, including the first departures, the maintenance of rolling stock and the maintenance of infrastructure. Do you know that in September, we must also take into account the fact that 50% of the delays are related to third parties. These figures are proven. These data are accessible. What are those "thirds" of September? Bomb alerts, non-compliance with closed level crossings with two fatal accidents, triggering alarms, pedestrians along the tracks and numerous suicides. I therefore expect companies to step up awareness-raising activities already launched in the face of social problems and phenomena which have an impact on punctuality. In this regard, the draft law on administrative sanctions, which is about to be completed, should also constitute an important step forward in favour of reducing third-party causes by effectively punishing the perpetrators, some of whom require the complete cessation of rail traffic on lines sometimes for more than an hour. Of course, some will try to put these counter-performances on the back of economies. And this is the political game! We all know him. To those, I want to ask if they really think it's the maintenance of the last three years that impacts the current state of the network? As an engineer who has worked in large infrastructure, and there are other examples in Brussels, I can tell you that problems related to a lack of maintenance are marked over a much longer period of time. Therefore, if you think that the state of the infrastructure is a problem, know that its origin lies in decisions and in the absence of decisions in recent decades! In any event, I will continue to be attentive to this essential element of quality of travel, namely punctuality and the results of the actions proposed by management. As such, I will meet with the associations that have reported their findings. I'll ask them for their comments, their statements. I will confront them with the surveys given by the two companies, Infrabel and SNCB. Then I will gather them together to find out why the finding is so different from the measurements made by SNCB and Infrabel. However, the aim is not to see but to improve punctuality, alongside security and communication.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip194x.u56	Mr. Chairman, Mr.Minister, I am taking the co-workers to witness. Three years ago, your predecessor, Jacqueline Galant, said the same thing as you: "It's not my fault, it's all those before. But you'll see what you're going to see! Now it will change, and very quickly!" Three years later, where are we? We are already paying for the consequences of budgetary savings. Yes, this government is the minimum budget government. Never before had there been so much budget savings on SNCB and Infrabel! Never! This government has deceived the citizens. Right here, Jacqueline Galant said. "The Walloon TGV? Temporary removal. Temporary: he's coming back, Mr. Devin." He didn't come back. Today, Namurians can no longer go to Paris. Now there is only one in three trains in Namur arriving in Brussels. The important thing is the citizen, the citizen who goes to work and who, in the evening, falls asleep, wonders if he will have a train, wonders if he will leave on time, wonders if his employer will not yet make the remark to him that he is late. Late because of what? Because of the train! It's already hard to get a "job, job, job", but when you get too late all the time, it's even harder. And think about the family life when you get back in the wind because your train has been stopped. And that's the everyday reality of commuters!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip194x.u57	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your reply. You share the indignation and state that you urgently need operational action. I agree with you 100%. It is important that you share that indignation. You say that 50 % of delays are due to third parties. However, this also means that 50% of the delays are related to the company itself. You note that it is a political game. However, I can only see what other organisations are finding, namely that the lack of maintenance and outdated infrastructure cause more than 50% of trains to delay. The savings are indeed very perverse. So please do not tell me that the savings that the current government has imposed have no consequences. You're an engineer yourself. You know that savings on equipment and maintenance have a certain limit. Once you go too far, you will pay in cash afterwards. I fear that the time for paying cash has come today and that we will get worse punctuality rates month after month because of the savings made by the current government.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip194x.u58	Minister, the airport file is hanging like a millstone around the neck of the airport. Many people, especially in the Flemish Rand, are rightly concerned about your approach to the dossier. The judgment of the Brussels court gave you two options. You could remove the flights or explain why it is not possible to make those adjustments, continue in this way and work towards a global agreement. In a letter to the residents, you said quite clearly what you wanted. You said you'd take those flights over Brussels, so you'd take them to Flanders. You have said that you will ensure that wind standards are interpreted and adjusted, while the government agreement requires them to be preserved and even enshrined in a flight law. You have said that you want to work out a global agreement for all residents, but in your timing you are putting forward the solution for Brussels. Afterwards, you can follow everything else. A lot of people are right to worry. So I have no choice but to ask you a number of questions here. When it comes to removing flights, the question is why you don't choose the solution that motivates you why it can't and then work on a global solution for everyone. Why do you not establish the wind standards, as is imposed in the coalition agreement? Why do you want to change it? Why are the airport agreements made at the time, in 2008 and 2010, laid down in the government agreement as the basis of our policy? Why are they in the trash today? Why do we still have to wait for a flying law that may never come back? Minister, I look forward to your answers, because we absolutely must get to work.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip194x.u59	Minister, the Brussels people are tired. They have been waiting for more than three years for solutions to reduce the overflight of the most densely populated areas of Brussels! You tell us to work there discreetly and that, unlike others, you do not make the announcement effect. You tell us that you are concerting all the actors in this dossier, that you are preparing a global plan, that it is difficult, that it takes time and that you have to be patient. Minister, I am beginning to understand your method. The Bellot method is that of the sand merchant. You are trying to sleep everyone to hide the complete immobilism in this issue of the Brussels overflight: yours, that of Mrs Galant and of this government. When will you understand that the Brussels people will refuse the current status quo? The Brussels will refuse to allow the most densely populated areas to be overflew, such as the canal road. The bruxellois finally want to sleep. When are you going to offer them a night from 10:00 p.m. to 7:00 a.m.? And finally, when are you going to set up this independent social nuisance control body? The Brussels people are tired, Minister, we need balanced solutions and in no way the status quo that you are advocating today.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip194x.u60	Colleagues, following the audit carried out by the Directorate-General for Air Transport (DGTA) on the use of runways at Brussels-National Airport and the parliamentary committees in June and July, I have confirmed my willingness to clarify the standards in force on the basis of the recommendations of this audit. Since then, I have been working with my cabinet on a clarifying note. This required the cooperation of several actors in this dossier, mainly DGLV and Belgocontrol. I now hope to reach a final draft which will be presented at a forthcoming intercabinet. This clarification proposal will take up the points highlighted by the audit, in particular as regards wind standards, taking into account gusts or weather forecasts. In making this clear, I shall first of all be guided by the maintenance of air traffic safety. At the same time, I want to respect the coalition agreement properly. I am making the necessary preparations to implement the decisions of the verdict, since the government has decided not to appeal. With regard to the technical measures relating to the Canal route and for the period from 23:00 to 07:00 for the Ring and landing roads in 01, which have been the subject of a judgment – a judgment which has not been appealed with the agreement of the government – I am advancing with my cabinet on a proposal to be made to the federal government, and communicated to the Brussels-Capital Region if validated by the federal government. In the broader case of the overflight, I am still in favour of a comprehensive solution. The priorities of this comprehensive solution, including the legal framework and the roads are part of the many elements, were presented in Kern. However, these elements must be taken into account in a comprehensive framework. At this stage, no mandate from the government on the basis of my proposals was given to me to turn to other actors.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip194x.u61	Thank you, Minister, for your answer, but I believe that it is absolutely essential that you seek a solution for all citizens. We have just heard the PS, which stands up for the people of Brussels. Well, strangely enough, the N-VA stands up for all residents, because I think a global solution is the only possible solution. In the past, you have said that we want to do better than our predecessors. Those are good intentions today, but I do not see enough action on the ground. We want to support you to do better for the future, to ensure that measures are taken for everyone and that the problem is not merely shifted from Brussels to Flanders. We will watch over that. You said you wanted to comply with the government agreement. That is a good start and now we shall do the same. That is to say, we will anchor wind standards, as defined in the 2008-2010 airport agreement, into a flight law. We shall make it, Minister. What we will not do is interpret, bicolate, adapt as we wish. Minister, we are always your partner in reaching a global agreement, but not if you want to light up bits and pieces of the puzzle to hand them out first and then spread the chunks on the Flemish Edge. We certainly don't.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip194x.u62	Minister, you've been confirming what we've been thinking for some time. The Catalan crisis has shown that Prime Minister Charles Michel is the hostage of the N-VA. Yesterday, Mrs De Coninck was very eloquent on the issue of the overflight of Brussels and the surrounding area; today we heard Mr Wollants, and you are the hostage of the N-VA in this matter! The MR promised everything to the Brussels people during the 2014 election campaign, including the end of the overflight of the most densely populated areas. Today, we understood that Ms.Galant did nothing, even though she told us that 2016 should be the period of action. You're not going to do anything, either, minister. We understand that you are not going to touch on this issue in which the situation is completely unbalanced for Brussels, as you know. Neither you nor Mrs. Galant have spoken the slightest word. I asked you several times if you were finally going to take into consideration the most densely populated areas in your choice of tracks. You never quoted that! In your general policy note, we don't find it either! This means that you are leaving the Brussels people and that, tomorrow, nothing will be done for the most densely populated areas. It is an absurdity for the health of Brussels; an absurdity in aviation safety. You know that, but you are the hostage of the Flemish parties!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip194x.u63	Minister, this government has been committed to activation from the outset. That is, as the Prime Minister has always said, the binding force of this government. At first, the motto was: getting jobs, jobs, jobs, people to work more. That is also the only way to secure our prosperity, to get our budget in order in the long term, and to ensure that there is sufficient public revenue. I was therefore pleased yesterday through the newspaper De Standaard to learn about the study in which the PPS Social Integration announced what the OCMW's are performing and what they contribute to the activation of people who were not active until recently. I could read that a small half of the living wagers are effectively brought to work. There was even better news: 70 percent of these people apparently do not return to the OCMW within four years. I believe that all social workers deserve a plume. After all, they devote every day to the activation and integration of life labourers. The policy also deserves a compliment. The policy also focuses on activation. Especially in a region such as Flanders, where the labour market is already tight, we need everyone to be able to dust the labour market. Mr Minister, I have taken note of these figures through the newspaper. Can you confirm the numbers? How big is the flow exactly? Is it different from previous years? Is it better or worse than in previous years? What conclusions do you draw from that? I would remind you that this government has generalised the GPMI contract for wage-earners. Does this have an effect on the numbers? Does that make us do better? What can the OMCW's possibly do better?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip194x.u64	Thank you, Mr Lachaert, for your questions. They are important because they allow me initially to remind you of the fundamental role of the OMCWs in the reintegration of their beneficiaries. The PPS Social Integration has indeed proposed a study on the beneficiaries who leave the OCMW. The study carried out by the PPS Social Integration and presented here today shows that over a four-year period, 70% of the beneficiaries who leave the OCMW have finally done so. Of that 70 %, 42% of the beneficiaries left the OCMW with a job. This is a positive finding: it also stresses the importance of working. A negative spiral is not necessarily the case. As you know, the government pays a great deal of attention to this important social role. It is in this spirit that we have made the individualised project for social integration (GPMI) mandatory. In doing so, additional resources were provided to the OMCWs to support them. This reform is already starting to bear fruit; 81 275 commuters have already enjoyed a GPMI between November 2016 and August 2017. I am also working on the reform of the socio-professional exemption which will further support the transition to work. The objective is clear: to guarantee a higher net income for those who make progress on the road to professional reintegration. It concerns me, and I also think for you, Mr Lachaert, two important measures that will enable us to go further in supporting the OMCWs. In this way we can ensure that they can continue to play their fundamental role in the field of reintegration.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip194x.u65	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. You actually confirm the figures we have read in the newspapers. In the four-year period under study, 42% of the living wage-earners have actually started working, and 70% of them do not return to the living wage system, so those people have actually left on their journey. In my opinion, this is a very positive bilan for the work of all our OCMWs, at local level in the cities and municipalities. I believe that we should continue to support the OMCWs so that they can continue to carry out their tasks. This government has already done so, including by imposing a unique vision with the GPMI contract for everyone. However, it is the merit of every OCMW to give this concrete and good form and to effectively deploy it on the activation. As a federal government, we must also ensure that every OMCW applies this in a clearly consistent way. We can follow that from the Chamber. We will also support you in that. In addition to the creation of jobs in the labour market, poverty policy has been an important social theme in recent weeks. I do not think we should let go of this debate. Anyone who believes that people who are sent to the OCMW have been lost will today be proved wrong. The OCMW is actually a new step, a safety net for those who are struggling, but at the same time it is also the first step towards reintegration. We need to work on this together, by strengthening the OCMWs in that individual approach to reintegrate all those who are struggling into society.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip194x.u66	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, on the need to strengthen the requirements of the organic label, I take note of Belgium's decision to abstain, including the compromise text from the European trialogue (Parliament-Council of the European Union-Commission). As far as we are concerned, we are opposed to this compromise in that it brings us increasingly to a low-end organic label by relaxing the conditions for obtaining it, mainly for two reasons. The first of these reasons, Mr Minister: productions contaminated with pesticides will no longer necessarily be declassified from the organic label because each state will be able to decide on a threshold that it will tolerate in this respect. And under the principle of free movement of goods, this may lead to Belgian consumers finding products that have only the label on their plate. The second reason, Mr Minister: quality controls on farms, which currently number two a year, may take place only every 24 months in the future, which increases the risk of contaminated products passing between drops – you know what I mean. Such a reform will only increase the public's mistrust of the quality of their diet. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that citizens are increasingly proactive in the sector, to the detriment of a whole section of agriculture, especially Walloon agriculture, which, however, makes every effort, with great professionalism, to produce and offer consumers a quality product. Belgium's abstention and the refusal of the text by a number of European States, such as France and Germany doubtless, will prevent the adoption of the text. The status quo is not for me either, minister. That's not moving back. The current text, although preferable to the one currently proposed, has already been tested after ten years of existence. Some companies have also learned to exploit the faults of the system, which is quite questionable. I would therefore like to know, Mr Minister, as Belgian Federal Minister for Agriculture and, through this, representative of Belgium in the European negotiations, what your position is on this subject and what actions you intend to implement so that Belgium can work towards an ambitious regulation on this subject, which will benefit consumers as well as producers. Minister, I await your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip194x.u67	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, you are right to be attentive to the development of the organic sector which is growing in Belgium from year to year, as is the case in all the countries of the European Union. That's obviously a good thing. This allows our producers to diversify and respond to growing societal demand. For information purposes, it can be pointed out that in Belgium, in 2016, there were no fewer than 1,923 organic farms. Since March 2014, discussions have taken place at European level. A number of objectives were presented by the European Commission. Let me draw your attention to three essential elements in the discussion. The revision of the organic regulation is a matter which falls exclusively within the competence of the Regions. As Federal Minister for Agriculture, I represent the coordinated position of the Regions at the table of the European Council of Agriculture Ministers. In doing so, as in the case of a number of other dossiers relating to regional matters, my role is to relay regional positions, in this case the amendment of the rules on organic matters. I know that discussions are currently under way between the Commission and the Regions. But when the time comes, I will take my share of responsibilities, which is limited to being the European relay of the regional position.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip194x.u68	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your answer. I know the regional positions, but admit that there is a need for ambition in this sector. My question, therefore, was what were your ambitions and what ambitious regulations you would possibly propose to the Regions to bring this word to the European level, since this is your role as federal minister. For my part, Minister, I consider that the interests of organic and traditional farmers are not particularly antagonistic. These actors must be able to talk to each other and act by common accord. In any case, I would like to draw your attention to the emergence of an interesting diversification, which must be respected. Several professionals work very conscientiously and in a very ambitious way, in line with consumer expectations. They have no desire to have on their plate organic light. That is why I recommend you, Mr Minister, to pay particular attention to these issues and to make you the authentic advocate of a Belgian ambition in the European Council.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip194x.u69	End of oral questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip194x.u70	I propose that a single discussion be devoted to the two draft laws. I propose that you devote one discussion to these two bills.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip194x.u71	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteurs are Mr Klaps and Mr Piedboeuf.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip194x.u72	Mr President, I refer to my written report. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip194x.u73	We shall begin by discussing the articles of Bill No. 2658. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2658/5) We shall now proceed to the discussion of the articles of Bill No. 2658. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2658/5) The draft law has 262 articles. The bill has 262 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip194x.u74	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. We shall begin by discussing the articles of Bill No. 2659. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2659/3) We shall now proceed to the discussion of the articles of Bill No. 2659. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2659/3) The draft law has 3 articles. The bill has three articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip194x.u75	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip194x.u76	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteurs are Mr Benoît Piedboeuf and Mr Rob Van de Velde, referring to the written report. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? ) The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip194x.u77	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2668/4) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2668/4) The draft law has 13 articles. The bill has 13 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip194x.u78	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip194x.u79	A limited general discussion was held in accordance with Rule 116 of the Rules of Procedure. In accordance with rule 116 of the Rules, this bill is the subject of limited general discussion.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip194x.u80	The limited general discussion is open. The limited general discussion is open. The rapporteurs are Mr Gautier Calomne and Mr Georges Gilkinet, who refer to the written report. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The limited general discussion is closed. The limited general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip194x.u81	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2685/1+4) We turn to the articles of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2685/1+4) The draft law has 10 articles. The bill has 10 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip194x.u82	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip194x.u83	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteur is Mrs Maya Detiège, who refers to the written report. Mrs Smaers has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip194x.u84	Mr President, we support this draft law, which essentially aims to protect consumers. During the discussion in committee, we drew attention to the fact that this draft law, which imposes additional obligations on both small and self-employed travel intermediaries and associations in the cultural or youth sector, informs these groups, as well as consumers, about the additional obligations. The Minister has promised to set up a working group to provide some guidance and guidelines in support of the roll-out of the additional obligations set out in the draft law. We call for this to be done as much as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip194x.u85	Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the aim of this bill, which transposes a European directive, is in particular to ensure better protection for consumers by taking into account new trends, such as the increasing number of trips that are now being booked online. The bill introduces detailed regulations for problems that may arise in the performance of one of the travel services included in package travel. From now on, in the event of a price increase of more than 8%, the consumer will have the opportunity to break the contract. Up to now, the increase was expected to reach 10%. The transposed Directive aims at almost complete harmonisation and aims to stimulate a genuine European internal market for consumers which strikes a fair balance between the protection and competitiveness of travel enterprises. We pay particular attention to updating the legislative framework for consumer protection, which is why my group and I support this bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip194x.u86	Mr. Chair, Mr.Minister absent, today we will choose to vote for this bill, as we did in committee, for two reasons. On the one hand, it goes without saying that it was necessary to replace the law of 16 February 1994 which, in many respects, was no longer adapted to the air of time and, on the other hand, it was a fairly faithful transposition of a European directive which, moreover, did not leave us much room for discretion. And, Mr President, it is in this connection that I would like to make a few regrets, because if the above-mentioned directive is undoubtedly a step forward, it is far from perfect and will probably show its limits quite quickly. Indeed, the distinction between related travel services and package travel services seems somewhat unclear, while the classification of a travel service in one of the two categories has very important implications in terms of consumer protection. The situation is not particularly more comfortable for the service provider, for whom the lack of clarity may cause confusion as to the obligations to which he must submit. All of this leads to some legal uncertainty. In addition, there is a risk that a number of service providers may adapt their business model to fall within the scope of related travel services, which would in part deprive the legislation of its substance. I therefore regret – and I am speaking to the minister – that more thought has not been given in committee to alleviate these various problems. These are the two remarks I wanted to make to the minister!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip194x.u87	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? ) The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip194x.u88	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2653/4) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2653/4) The draft law has 88 articles. The bill has 88 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip194x.u89	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip194x.u90	Mr. Chair, has there been a change of jurisdiction within the government?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip194x.u91	I don't think so. I have also noticed that the Secretary of State concerned is not here. I had it checked out.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip194x.u92	If so, I think it's a political signal.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip194x.u93	There is no change in skills.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip194x.u94	That would be necessary!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip194x.u95	I've had the Secretary of State summoned, but I don't know where he is right now. I can suspend the sitting, but I can also have the draft on fipronil examined pending. Is everyone okay with that? [[Assent]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip194x.u96	Then this is settled by consensus.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip194x.u97	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip194x.u98	Mr President, I refer to my written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip194x.u99	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this draft law is a result of the serious crisis in the poultry sector that has plagued our country and the Netherlands since August. Both agriculture and the food sector were and are seriously affected by this crisis. There's been a lot of damage. This has also been demonstrated in the discussions in the committees. During the recess, in August, there were additional committee meetings with hearings and an exchange of views on the crisis. So far, the damage in Belgium has been estimated at EUR 21 million. In the Netherlands the damage is even greater. Our group is very pleased that the federal government immediately reacted decisively and immediately proposed a dozen measures to support the sector, following the damage it has suffered. One of the immediate measures proposed was the granting of federal compensation to the affected companies. They have now been worked out and are ahead of us in this bill. We must not forget, and we also stressed in committee that the real responsible people who caused this crisis and committed the fraud will have to pay for the damage caused in the sector. We therefore fully support the government's bourgeois party attitude towards those who are actually responsible for the crisis. You said, Minister, that the bourgeois elections are currently under way. In order to implement the law, in addition to a European agreement, implementing decisions are still needed. We call for companies to be able to apply for compensation through a simple procedure. I hope that this procedure will be included in the implementation. The application procedure should be kept as simple as possible. There must also be good and rapid communication to all concerned, so that they are properly informed and that appropriate guidance can be provided when submitting the claims files. Thank you for the follow-up. I hope that, at European level too, the compensation system will be properly, closely and wholeheartedly followed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip194x.u100	Mr President, excuse me for my delay, but I think the agenda has been changed. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, as you know, this bill is important to the poultry sector and to our businesses that have suffered significant damage. Last summer, as soon as it broke out, the fipronil crisis was quickly and effectively managed by our government. As early as 10 August, a task force was set up, involving all the players in the sector. Various important measures have been taken – I will not mention them otherwise Mr Nollet will upset me – and the sector quickly realized that this problem was being addressed and supported. One of these measures has obviously been reflected in this bill: the implementation of a compensation mechanism for the affected companies. The aim of this compensation is to enable companies to deal with the damage suffered in strict compliance with European rules. To this end, an amount of EUR 30 million has been isolated from the AFSCA Reserve Fund, which should be sufficient. The latest estimates presented by the Minister amount to EUR 21 million. I would point out that, in addition to the measures adopted by the government, an amount of EUR 10 million is added to enable farmers not to bear the cost of destroying eggs and poultry themselves for the safety of the food chain. Maximum support must be given to our businesses, some of which are in a difficult or even critical situation. Other countries than Belgium have been affected by this crisis and not all respond in the same way. Some do not plan to compensate their businesses. That is why, minister, I welcome this bill. It is to help companies quickly that my group and I will support this project.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip194x.u101	Mr. de Lamotte was included in the discussion, but he is not found.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip194x.u102	Mr President, since you reversed the agenda without warning, Mr de Lamotte is not present for his speech. It is probably occupied by one or the other meeting. Since Mr Delizée wishes to take the floor, I would ask you to pass it first, which will allow Mr de Lamotte time to arrive.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip194x.u103	All right.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip194x.u104	Mr President, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote unanimously, as in committee, on the compensation of farmers who have been affected by the fipronil crisis. I think there is no surprise to be expected from the vote. Nevertheless, I would like to add a few considerations about what constituted a series last summer and the months that followed. We must not consider this crisis to be behind us. It is still very present. To my knowledge, Europe has not yet given its green light for compensation. It appears that elements would not have been passed on by the government to the European Union. Perhaps the minister will be able to enlighten us. Farmers will receive compensation, to see when it can intervene. There is much to be feared that it will be necessary to wait several months before it is effective. Second, which is a direct consequence of the fipronil crisis: rising egg prices. Some egg products have thus increased from 200 to 250%, putting at risk the entire economic sector of SMEs specializing in processed products. Let's think about it, too. The third element is the estimation of the damage suffered. In committee, the minister assessed this damage at EUR 14 million, it would appear that from now on this assessment has increased to EUR 21 million. You will tell me that 30 million have been released, but it would have to be certain that this estimate will be sufficient. Having said that, we will of course vote in favour of this project, while stressing that the dossier is not closed. Of course, and this is another debate, we must continue to monitor the functioning of the AFSCA. There was a panel discussion on staffing reductions and the number of controls. We don't have the same numbers. According to our figures, the number of controls decreased by 6% in 2015 and by 2.5% in 2016. Anyway! Is it worth recalling that the fraud remained for months under radar and then, for another month and a half, in the secret of the investigation? This is part of the file that we have examined in every way. I think the AFSCA file is far from closed. Beyond the crisis, there is the issue of dependence on pesticides and other products which requires a more comprehensive reflection on production patterns. But this is a longer-term reflection. Ladies and gentlemen, in conclusion, we will of course vote for compensation, but bearing in mind all the elements I have just mentioned, because the crisis is still partly before us.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip194x.u105	Mr President, Minister, in August we spent two full days in a "fipronil committee" and it was mentioned the difficulty for a number of companies to be compensated or to survive this crisis. We have also supported in this House the urgency of this bill because the affected companies deserve to be helped as soon as possible. It's an important sector. Minister, we will support the bill as you proposed it, and you can be told that the bill came quickly to help the sector. It's obviously a good signal. While this compensation meets the needs of agro-industry, it should be remembered, however, that agro-industry is at the root of crises and is supported by the state. We would like to stress the importance of supporting small producers who are not at the root of crises and who do not receive direct support from the state. We believe that the AFSCA should draw on its reserves to do so, in particular by increasing the capacity of the small producer unit. Minister, I would like to ask you about this, and I would ask you to understand this request from the small producers, especially since for them – but also for the larger producers – there is an increase in the price of eggs. Minister, there are still lessons to be learned from this fipronil crisis. We will have the opportunity, during the presentation of your policy note, to discover the proposals you will make about this aid to the sector as well as about the retreading of the ASCFA. We have requested an audit of the AFSCA, with the support of Minister Kris Peeters. An audit of the AFSCA, with parliamentary scrutiny, is an important, obvious step, not to sanction but to increase its potential for improvement, to identify malfunctions and to allow everyone to find out more about consumer safety and a certainty for producers to know what they can or cannot do. During the hearings, we discovered a number of difficulties. Minister, we will support your project as it has been tabled because we believe that compensation for egg producers is an important element for the sector.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip194x.u106	Mr President, may I all thank you for the various interventions in this important draft law? I am also pleased that it was unanimously approved by the Committee on Industry and I hope and expect that this will be done in the near future. It seems to me that we were able to give ourselves the means to work very quickly. We absolutely must act quickly. That is your will, Mrs Smaers, but that is also my will. That is why the government has requested and obtained from this Assembly the application of the procedure of urgency. This allowed the parliamentary debate to take place within the best possible time frame. Naturally, the poultry sector needs rapid action from us. As I indicated in committee, after the passage of this bill, we will be able to forward the Royal Enforcement Order for notice to the Council of State. I think that we will then be able to initiate the clearing procedures at the beginning of next year, as far as the legal provisions allow. Mrs Smaers, we also had to report this bill to the European Commission for prior notification. This happened in October after a procedure of pre-notification. This leads me to complete the answer for Mr Delizée. Mr Delizée, I think you are not well informed. We went so far as to pre-notify to the European Commission the arrangements we are making for compensation in the fipronil crisis. The contacts are very close. You will have noticed that, during the debates in committee, we have already been able to vote unanimously for an amendment, carried by the majority, incorporating into the draft one of the Commission's remarks. In a close manner, we naturally make sure that we have all the necessary exchanges with the Commission, so that we can work with the widest possible margin of safety. I really have to tell you. We had already talked about this during the debates in committee. Mr. Delizée, the crisis is over. It's also obvious. We're out of the fipronil crisis. We now manage compensation to help the sector recover. I'll meet you and Mrs. Cassart. But I still wanted to point out that we did not wait for this bill to provide financial assistance to the poultry sector. On the basis of the first reserve of EUR 10 million, we have already been able to estimate aid of EUR 7 million for the sector. The aim is to help the sector meet operational costs associated with the crisis. While the EUR 7 million in question, estimated at the beginning of the EUR 10 million envelope, have not yet been liquidated, we are already at the level of almost EUR 5 million. I would point out that concrete aid has already been provided to the sector before we can provide, in a second stage, the aid provided under the bill and, technically, within the framework of the support key inspired by the Health Fund. I will not go into the details, but I will make a point: there has been no change to the estimates. I read in the press and heard comments that we would have gone from 14 million to 21 million... no! At the start of the first allocation (reserve of EUR 10 million), we have 7 million plus 14 million, which is estimated as part of the project, for a total of 21 million. This clarification will provide some clarity on these elements. If any changes had been made, I would have informed Parliament. I would like to make it clear once again that the work carried out, in collaboration with the European Commission, was also done on the basis of consultation with the poultry sector and the Agrofront. Thanks to this consultation, we were able to draw up this project and these royal decrees according to the impact of the financial crisis of the fripronil. Mr. Delizée, you are absolutely right. It is clear that, in the light of the European tables on the increase in egg prices, increases in the price of eggs, sometimes very large, are observed throughout Europe. Despite the fipronil crisis, the increase in Belgium leads us to a cost that is still below the European average. I thank you for highlighting this aspect because it allows me to indicate it. In terms of the cost of eggs in Belgium, despite the fipronil crisis, we are below the European average in terms of the cost per euro per 100 kilos of eggs. There are also a few comments about the AFSCA. It is clear that after the crisis we have encountered, an evaluation is under way. This is not an evaluation in the negative sense. It is an evaluation that we carry out after each crisis. The way in which the crisis was managed is assessed. From my point of view, it has been well managed. Nevertheless, we can no doubt, on a number of axes with the AFSCA, further improve the processing of certain operations. That's the will of AFSCA and mine. We will soon be able to look at the evaluation of the work that has been, as I indicated, well done. I think we must collectively recall that we are one of the only European countries to have exercised control over the whole egg sector. It is obviously a guarantee of confidence for the consumer. This is an element on which the poultry sector can rely in order to return better and, indeed, Mr Delizée, hope in the future, in the light of these constructive policies brought by the government but also by this whole assembly within the framework of this project, a reduction in the cost of eggs. In any case, I thank you for the exchanges on this subject, as I thank you for voting unanimously, as you were able to do in committee, on this important project for the poultry sector.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip194x.u107	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? ) The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip194x.u108	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2693/4) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2693/04) The draft law has 11 articles. The bill has 11 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip194x.u109	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip194x.u110	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip194x.u111	Mr President, in view of the very extensive report, more than 200 pages through the lengthy discussion and hearings, I would refer to the written report, since I would not be able to adequately reflect all the subtleties. I'll make an intervention later.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip194x.u112	I call Mrs Smeyers. We are following the order of magnitude of the groups. It's never been any different, Mrs. Temmerman.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip194x.u113	Mr President, I did not stand by to intervene, but to be put on the list, because I was not yet registered. I don't care. Mr Pivin and I will not argue about that. The sooner I start, the sooner it's up to the others. Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, it was a while before these draft laws could be dealt with in plenary. I think it was a summer design, maybe even a spring design, in committee. UNHCR's opinion was only delivered at the beginning of October, and recently an opinion was delivered to the Chairman of the Home Affairs Commission on his own initiative. Afterwards, of course, you had to provide additional explanations for both opinions. Today, in plenary, we will transpose four directives and a regulation into national law. That is the procedure directive, the reception directive, the return directive, the qualification directive and the Dublin III regulation. Quite a sandwich, but these directives and the regulation have one goal, namely the pursuit of a common asylum and return policy, and that is the goal that our group has been fully supportive of for a long time. Mr Secretary of State, there are a number of measures in your draft which deserve our particular attention. A very important obligation and a very great improvement is the reporting obligation introduced for the recognised refugees and the subsidiary protected. The recognised refugees will now be obliged to report to the municipal administration that they will leave the country and return to the country of origin. We remember the coverage of the refugee-vacationers. Article 44 of the 2013 Directive provides that Member States may initiate an investigation in order to withdraw the international protection of a particular person when a new element or new findings emerge showing that there are grounds for doubting the validity of that international protection or to at least re-examine it. Let us be honest, going on a journey to the country from which people have just fled may well be such a reason. We are not saying that this is automatically a reason, but we owe it to ourselves, our administrations and our society to carefully investigate exactly what the reason for protection is when, shortly after they have been granted the status of recognised refugee or otherwise protected, they travel to their country of origin. If it turns out that someone no longer needs protection, that protection could of course also be lifted. The recognised refugee is also obliged to give his valid national passport into custody with the Commissioner-General for Refugees and the Stateless. This important reporting obligation is now becoming national law. Mr Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, there is certainly a risk of language shopping. Whether asylum seekers sometimes want to change their language role, I leave it in the middle. Anyway, I can appreciate my experience in Aalst. It turned out that people who spoke perfectly Dutch and were perfectly settled applied for regularisation.It is logical that they do so at that time.In French and that is strange, all the more so because they wanted to show that they were perfectly settled and integrated and spoke the Dutch language. My question as to why they submitted that application in French was the fair answer, which is generally known that requests in French are easier to proceed and may be treated more flexibly. Whether that's true or not, I'll leave it in the middle. It may be a rumor, but it's not good for administration, it's not efficient and it's time-consuming, when people gradually change language roles. That language shopping will be remedied by stating that successive applications for international protection will be examined in the same language as the previous investigation. A second or later application for asylum will therefore no longer be possible to choose another language. The language of the first asylum application shall be retained unless the Department of Foreign Affairs decides otherwise for certain reasons. This will also put an end to attempts to achieve a positive result by changing language roles, a very important achievement if we adopt the draft in the near future. At present it is also possible to submit a new asylum application, while the appeal procedure with the RV is still pending. There is no need for further explanation that this may, of course, lead to administrative problems. That will also be remedied. The draft law also lays down additional procedural guarantees for minor asylum seekers. It is stated that the general interest of the child is a decisive consideration, which the Commissioner-General for Refugees and the Stateless must lead during the examination of the application for protection. The rights of the child are central. For example, it will also be possible for the child to be heard separately from his parents. That will often not be necessary, but if the child so requests or if the investigator feels that it is necessary, it can. The child can be heard separately from the parents to talk, for example, about his homosexual orientation, which he does not want or can express in the presence of his parents. Colleagues, I am also very pleased that the concept of safe third country is being added to our internal legislation with Article 46 of the draft law. The term now comes into force in our national law and will be applicable. In addition to the changes in the operation of the Foreign Affairs Office and the Commissioner-General, there are changes concerning Fedasil. A novelty is that Fedasil will now be able to restrict reception on the basis of information obtained by other asylum authorities. For example, there may be a lack of a response to a request for information from the Commissioner-General for Refugees and the Stateless. If a candidate refugee refuses to cooperate, Fedasil will therefore be given the opportunity to limit the reception. That makes sense, too. That shelter is also a service. It is, of course, an obligation, which we fully support, in accordance with the Geneva Convention. But I'll tell you what I'm gonna do. We want the candidate refugee, the asylum seeker, to cooperate in the investigation, because, of course, the number of reception places is not infinite and there must be room for new applicants. The unnecessary stretching of procedures by non-cooperation and consequently the unnecessary stretching of shelter by non-cooperation can be reduced by Fedasil. I would also like to mention an important point concerning the fight against multiple asylum applications. In this respect, too, applications for the application, requests for time to be delayed, will be stopped. The Department of Foreign Affairs is given new and additional opportunities to repatriate an asylum seeker, while the application for asylum is still pending with the Commissioner or the Council for Foreign Affairs Disputes. Mr Secretary of State, I would like to reiterate that it is very important that you have created a better framework for the obligation of cooperation, focusing on the importance of the delivery of identity documents. Now there is the possibility that the Foreign Affairs Office, the Commissioner-General for Refugees and the Stateless and the Council of Foreigners' Contestants may include the identity documents during a procedure and the Foreign Affairs Office even after a procedure. This will facilitate the return procedure for displaced asylum seekers. Afterwards, when the identity documents are kept in custody, the person concerned can no longer claim to have forgotten where he or she is from, which means that the person concerned no longer knows where he or she is to be returned to. All these are points in the draft law which fully support our mantra on asylum and migration, namely a strict but fair asylum policy. We shall continue along this path. Mr Secretary of State, it goes without saying that you have the support of the N-VA Group when we vote on the draft law.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip194x.u114	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, I will not go back here to the history of the case – many of you still have it in memory. I would just like to recall that the opposition had to fight for the opinions of the specialized associations or those of the Office of the High Commissioner for Refugees. I shall confine myself today to setting out in a few words the reasons why the Socialist Group is resubmitting an amendment and voting against the two texts submitted to the vote of today's plenary. The first is the opinion of the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees and that of the Commission for the Protection of Privacy. These are two independent bodies that scald the projects as they stand, the majority of which, unfortunately, felt that they could be swept away with a back of their hands. For us, as for these bodies, the situation of applicants should not restrict their rights or access to them. This is the basis, the substance of their criticism, especially with regard to privacy. We obviously agree with them on this point. No, wanting to protect his privacy does not mean failing to cooperate with the authorities and therefore no, it is not, Mr Franken, a suspicion of fraud! With UNHCR, we also find it unreasonable to place the burden of proof on applicants alone, whose material and psychological situation is necessarily fragile. With him, we have proposed to move the text forward in order to bring it more in line with the recommendations of the United Nations agencies in this area, especially with regard to the benefit of the doubt, which your text leaves behind. So today we are resubmitting an amendment in this direction – we will probably come back to it later. The second reason is the way in which you transpose the European directives. You only do so with regard to the "hardening of access conditions" component. You do so much less when it comes to the protection of applicants, the protection of political refugees, which includes the right to an effective remedy. This right, through these texts, makes it difficult, if not impossible, according to the actors on the ground, since you significantly reduce the deadlines. Finally, we are very concerned about the possibility of enclosing applicants in your text. It refers to objective criteria as justifications for a risk of leakage and therefore an internment, covering almost all situations in which an applicant is likely to be in. This policy seems to us not only excessive, but above all counterproductive, since many cases will lead to recognition. For us, a policy designed to integrate the people concerned harmoniously into our society in the long term cannot be based on a logic of almost systematic detention.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip194x.u115	Mr President, I would like to repeat briefly, in order to bring some life into the debate. I have just stressed that the possibility Fedasil has of reducing reception if the asylum seeker does not cooperate is very important. That is the case in all branches of society. If people don't cooperate for what they hear, then all the services that are set up, all the facilitations that are set up, don't have to wait blindly. If the asylum seeker refuses to cooperate in the search for his identity, if he deliberately withholds it, then it is normal that there should be some reprisal. And I do say "consciously," because it is also often the case that he really does not know, but the services also feel when the identity is deliberately withheld. For what hears what, the asylum seeker himself has to help, is himself responsible for publishing, for finding out his identity. This is not just the responsibility of the various asylum authorities.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip194x.u116	I can understand that there must be cooperation between the authority, the administration and the asylum seeker. But put yourself in the position of an asylum seeker for a moment. Let us admit that Belgium is experiencing a dramatic situation and that you have to leave the country overnight, Madam, without having time to take your personal belongings, without having the opportunity to take your passport or identity card with you. You are welcomed by a country that has subscribed to the Hague Convention. You are applying to the administration of this country for asylum. With the text that is tabled by the minister, the administration will consider tomorrow that you are fraud because you are not in possession of a document and you cannot prove it. That is what is dramatic.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip194x.u117	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip194x.u118	Let me finish, and then you can answer, Mr. Franken. We have already had this debate in committee. You start from the idea that a person who is not in possession of an identity document must prove it. To date, the law provided that the administration should make every effort to prove it itself. This balance is now broken. This is, in any case, what the Office of the High Commissioner for Refugees considers. That is why I am tabling an amendment today to meet the request of the Office of the High Commissioner to develop a guide, standards and ways of working on the reception of asylum-seekers for all countries of the world. Mr. Franken, as he had done in June when he refused to listen to the comments of the associations, bowed down and refused the remarks of the Office of the High Commissioner for Refugees.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip194x.u119	Mrs Smeyers, this draft law effectively reflects the fair opportunities for protection in Belgium that every asylum seeker should have. Everyone deserves a fair chance. The answer may be yes or no, but everyone must have a fair chance. The Secretary of State goes quite far when he even starts questioning the right to receive an asylum seeker when there is no cooperation. You yourself say this: if there is no cooperation, someone may lose their place in a shelter. What does that mean, not cooperating? Who's that gonna depend on? Who will define that? Who's gonna fill that out? We get the right to live here, it's as simple as that. We must not make the right to a roof over the head dependent on such a very vaguely defined interpretation and application of 'non-cooperation'. If an asylum seeker refuses to cooperate, this may have a negative impact on the final assessment. Of course, this can be an element in the consideration, in the procedure, but it should not have an impact on the right to receive care. The shared burden of proof is a very nice principle. We should be guarding that. We should continue to do so. This bill doesn't do that. This draft law increasingly places the burden of proof on the asylum seeker. Mr Kir is right: it is not easy to prove his identity as an asylum seeker. But what does this bill say? It says that the lack of evidence is a negative indication for the asylum seeker in question. That's literally what it says: the lack of evidence is a negative indication. Only those who can give a satisfactory explanation of why they have no proof can be compensated, this can be forgotten. In this way, you disproportionately place the burden of proof on the asylum seeker. The asylum seeker must bend himself if he is not able to prove his identity immediately. These are immediately two examples of fairly fundamental violations of the fair opportunity that every asylum seeker should have in Belgium.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip194x.u120	Mr President, Minister, I would like to take this opportunity to speak on these two projects to recall the importance and quality of the work, which has often been difficult – especially in recent years – for officials from bodies such as the CGRA, the CCE or Fedasil. The expertise of these people is recognized in Belgium but also by international bodies such as the Office of the High Commissioner. This expertise is valuable when it is known that the files that are submitted to these officers must be processed and analyzed on a case-by-case basis because each case is different. These people therefore have to deal with cases on a case-by-case basis, taking into account facts that are often humanly very sensitive. Added to this difficulty is the fact that one is in a cross-cutting challenge because the management of migration reception can only be effective through international coordination and harmonisation. Initiatives in this area have been taken at European level for a number of years, as the Belgian Government has taken over the last three years to supplement our host legislation. This legislation is based – we like to remind you – on a clear philosophy: a firm but human policy that respects the international rules and those of our rule of law. These rules are clear and firm because we must also be able to combat abuses.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip194x.u121	Mr Pivin, you are talking about compliance with international rules. I draw your attention to one aspect of the Privacy Commission's opinion. This opinion makes it very clear that there is a negative obligation on the Head of State to comply with the general data protection regulation which will apply in May 2018. The Privacy Commission says that with this bill, the government is failing to comply with a data protection regulation that will apply in May. Contrary to what you are saying, I consider that Belgium is not complying with its international commitments.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip194x.u122	Mr Hellings, we could disagree if the Secretary of State had not himself spontaneously indicated that he would supplement the scheme by means of a royal decree. Therefore, Mr. Hellings, let us come back and talk about it again in the light of the initiative that will be taken. The projects that are being debated respond, it seems to us, to the challenges that I mentioned as an introduction. They consist of transposing directives, thus providing essential answers, while taking into account – at each stage – the diversity and complexity of cases and files. Similarly, this transposition provides a clearer framework for the bodies responsible for our asylum policy. The rationalization of certain procedures is in line with the government agreement. It also responds precisely to a priority of the Reform Movement: the guarantee of the balance between rights and duties. There was a need to clarify the procedure and role of the CGRA. Similarly, it was important to ensure full recognition of the protection of vulnerable persons. Their consideration seems to me to be real. I am thinking more specifically of unaccompanied minors, to whom this transposition offers the possibility of submitting an application on their own behalf and of being heard personally. I am also thinking of the text which now lays down faster, therefore necessarily more efficient and better-quality procedures, whether before the Foreign Office, the CGRA, the Litigation Council or during the new phases of the asylum procedure or, finally, in the application of the Dublin procedures. In this area, I note the acceleration of the processing of certain cases, the simplification of procedures and the harmonisation of deadlines. All of this is established, and I am very attentive to it, by maintaining the right to counsel at every stage of the proceedings and by ensuring the possibility of completing in the course of the proceedings the files of applications for new elements. The Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees recognizes some progress. However, let us be careful, he also makes some criticisms. It makes criticisms and it is true that new issues, important issues have had to be resolved or will still be resolved through the royal decree which I mentioned the coming in the coming months. Thus, the burden of proof – a subject that has been debated between us – that is called into question by the opinion sought and for which positions are obviously decided, is not without a nuance. Indeed, to read the text, it can be seen that, if the burden appears to be placed on the applicant's head, the parts of the text which mention on several occasions the obligation of the CGRA to investigate and collect so-called relevant information concerning the credibility of the situation of the applicant for protection cannot be ignored. If, in theory, it can be said that the burden of proof is placed on the applicant's shoulders, in practice, it is shared with the administrative authorities. The question is what is the degree of good faith of the person who comes to Belgium. It is not a matter of making a trial of intent to the person, but of verifying his identity and the circumstances that led him to make a declaration. Colleagues, it still seems to us normal that the applicant should do everything possible to prove, with the services of the CGRA and with the Office of Foreigners – not against but with them – the elements that carry his application. It seems to us that this is also collaboration. Can this not be done through the issuance of digital personal documents to bodies? Can't this go through searching for information on a computer, on a phone? They must be able to ask the complainant to complete his file and Myria, in her latest annual report, pleads for greater involvement of social media services in combating trafficking in human beings. Myria's right! We must do this, and I want to say that we must be able to do so in all matters. But it must not be systematic.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip194x.u123	Mr. Pivin, I can hear you. The electronic search, which you're talking about, is useful in combating trafficking in human beings. I would even say that it is useful in the fight against major tax fraud, for example. And it is also true in the fight against terrorism and in the fight against serious crime. But what are we talking about here? We're talking about an electronic search for asylum seekers. As I know, asylum seekers are obviously not Belgian citizens, nor are they European citizens. And they're probably not people you'd like to have on the territory. But they are still human beings. Electronic search involves entering an electronic device with ultra-personal data. This must be reserved for the most serious criminal acts, not for asylum applications. That is what the Office of the High Commissioner for Refugees is telling you, is what the Privacy Commission is saying: it is contrary to the fundamental right to privacy, it is disproportionate. You cannot relate trafficking in human beings, prostitution, terrorism on the one hand, and asylum on the other. This has nothing to do with it. That's disproportionate.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip194x.u124	Mr Hellings, you say that the advice given by the Privacy Commission, among other things, would say that it is disproportionate. That's not what they said. They have said that there must be a framework. The advice of the Privacy Commission does not say that reading a mobile phone or viewing social media in the context of checking the authenticity of an asylum story or the identity of an asylum seeker is disproportionate. Show it in the text. Show that in the UNHCR text, show that the text of the Privacy Commission would say that it is disproportionate. That's not true! They didn't say that. They say that it is necessary to have a framework to retain information. That's what they said. What have we decided with the majority, in consultation with colleagues? We come with a royal decree. Exactly to give that framework. I don't understand. In fact, you have also won a political victory. In fact, you and Mr Hellings have achieved a political victory, I honestly admit, I have no problem with that, I respect Parliament, I was also very active in Parliament, but you sell it as a defeat. You say it's still not good enough. If I were you as a Member of Parliament, I would say: thanks to me, there has been an opinion from the Privacy Commission and thanks to me, Secretary of State Theo Francken has changed his course completely, the man who depicts your youth department as a Nazi. He comes up with a royal decision that actually responds to the biggest criticism I have made in the committee. You said you can't just do that, or you can do it, but you have to frame it. Now you're selling it as a defeat. I think that's incredible. Everyone's strategy. Whatever you say. Mr Pivin, I can only confirm to you that we have made it very clear in the majority that, with the advice of UNHCR and that of the Privacy Commission, there is a need for a framework. We're not going to change the law, but I'll come with a royal decree in a few weeks or months to set up a framework. This is the result of the opinion of the Privacy Commission that you individually asked for. That's clear. I really don't understand what the problem is here. You say that it doesn't go far enough, that they said it wasn't right, that we couldn't do that, and that's disproportionate. They didn't say that. They say we need a legal framework. I have committed myself on behalf of the government to come with a legislative framework in the coming weeks, and I will do so. Congratulations, I'd say. ge
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip194x.u125	Mr Secretary of State, you said that you would come up with a royal decision to create that framework, but it is not there yet. I can imagine that you will come up with that, given your unbridled strength, but we have to wait for that. We do not yet know what that framework will be. That is why we have tabled an amendment that, if the person concerned does not want to give access to his mobile phone or other products for the purpose of providing information, he should have it recorded in the file as an observation, but not as a valuation. If they do not give their consent, they will always be noted as negative. That's the problem. I do not think that is appropriate in certain cases.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip194x.u126	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I myself have been in the opposition for a while, just like the people of the N-VA. That happens to all of us sometimes and so we know:it is the duty of the opposition to oppose. Well, I'm asking for a little intellectual honesty. Mrs De Coninck, in the previous legislature, under a government in which you were a minister, has already done what is now described in the law, in particular that the Commissioner-General for Refugees and the Stateless can ask, for example, to support claims that one has passed through a certain place through the control of the mobile phone. This has been happening for years and is not new; it happened during the previous legislature in which you were Minister. The only thing that's changing today is that it's being incorporated into the law. That was suddenly noticed by the Privacy Commission, but actually there is nothing new under the sun. This has already been done, albeit by the Commissioner-General for Refugees and the Stateless. From CD&V they were asked to leave it with them because we have full confidence in the Commissioner-General for Refugees and the Stateless as an independent body. It remains with them, but they do not always apply it; they see when it is necessary. Sometimes it is not asked and the asylum seeker presents it himself, because he sees it as evidence. In that case it is not even asked and it is the person himself who does it. Now that's settled by law, but it's just writing down what happened before. It is therefore hypocritical that an amendment should now be requested. It happened before, Mrs. De Coninck, and you were part of the government then. It happened under that government and under the previous one. So please don't be too hypocritical.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip194x.u127	Mrs. Lanjri, I'm not a hypocrite. I'll even go into the intellectual honesty you're asking. I didn't suggest that we shouldn't. It's true that people need cooperation. I only ask that, if people do not want to do so, their refusal is recorded in the file. I have no problem with the practice that is now registered in the law. All I ask is that a refusal not always automatically be regarded as negative. It depends on the context, on the content of the file. Let me give you an example. Someone comes from a country where homosexuality is a very big problem and risks his life there for that reason. Maybe there's evidence of that on his cell phone. He comes here from a certain culture and background. It is not obvious to him to testify on this because he may not know what attitude towards homosexuality is being taken here. It's possible he'd rather not have his cell phone checked. That's human. While, should he allow his cell phone to be checked, which would allow him to provide evidence, his file might be in order much quicker. In that case, therefore, that person cannot be accused of bad faith. That is why I ask you to be careful about the valuation of non-cooperation in such a case.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip194x.u128	Mrs De Coninck, we have already had that debate in committee. At that time we also made it very clear that the fact that someone does not cooperate and does not want to be looked at in his mobile phone does not automatically lead to a refusal. It has always been said that it is one of the elements. For example, if the Commissioner-General for Refugees and the Stateless have many other elements that allow us to conclude that there is a lie or fraud, then this may be an additional element. However, the benefit of the doubt will always be given; this has happened in the past and will continue to do so now.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip194x.u129	Mrs De Coninck, homosexuality is one of the most delicate issues when it comes to asylum applications and is extremely difficult to prove. According to our protection officers at the CGVS, in the asylum service, in the cell Homosexuality, those are the most difficult profiles. That is the case in every European country. Some European countries have even been condemned in Strasbourg for dishonoring and disrespecting the burden of proof. Belgium has never been convicted. It's gonna stay that way. The degree of recognition of homosexuals, especially from black Africa and the Arab world, is particularly high in Belgium. We also have many requests. We are dealing with this in a very conscientious way. I can understand you and the example you mentioned is a particularly striking and correct example. I understand that it is not easy for someone who is gay and who has fled from a black-African country, I do not mention countries, because then there will be another diplomatic incident of "gay rights' that does not take it so close to gay rights. If the person concerned is only here for a few hours or days, it is not easy to show certain personal photos in his first interview. Everyone may realize that something like this doesn't feel right. Involved is wondering why he should do that for a person he doesn't know. He may be assisted by a lawyer, but he doesn't know that lawyer either, and no one understands his language. He wonders where he is and why he needs to show his personal relational photos, with possibly another man in a black-African country. I understand that is indeed very difficult. I also understand that at that time, Mrs De Coninck should not immediately say to the CGVS or the protection officer that the person concerned refused to show his photos during his first interview and to give access to his personal affairs. First of all, the protection officer must already express doubts about the mode of action. If someone then answers to the question to see the photos, he answers that he really does not feel comfortable with them, that he is so private, that he does not do so and that he does not have any business with them, then it is obvious that the CGVS considers that as an element, but not necessarily as a negative element, as Mrs Lanjri said just now. I repeat, as Mrs Lanjri said, that this practice has been applied de facto for years by our independent asylum service CGVS, also for gays. That's very sensitive. In Belgium, we always try to be very progressive and stand on the barricades in the field of homosexual rights. So this is happening in a very conscientious way by our people on the ground. There are no abuses there. I will not be the Secretary of State who says that someone who did not want to show his personal photos will not receive asylum shelter. So I won't be like that. There will be a royal decision, Mr. Hellings. Congratulations! I will therefore be presenting a royal decision and we will be able to discuss its content further in this House.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip194x.u130	If I understand correctly, we actually agree. For the record, I'm not intellectually unfair, Mrs. Lanjri. I believe, however, that this could be included in the texts as well, because it is precisely the intention to make laws that incorporate the practices that exist today into the regulations. So one could perfectly say that it is simply noted, that it is an element in the recital, but that it is not necessarily negative if it is refused. Punt.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip194x.u131	Mr President, I think we should take into account the opening made in committee on the Commission's report on the protection of privacy, on the initiative of our colleague Benoît Hellings. But it's still Theo Franken who holds the pen. It is necessary to be very careful, because he is late on the transposition of the European directives, he comes with a text of 4 to 500 pages, he leaves us just a few days to read it... The texts were received at the end of the week to be debated the following Tuesday. In committee, the opposition asked for a period of time to be allowed to work. As a first step, Minister, you refused to hear from civil society. She wasn't even consulted before. You have submitted a founding text on asylum policy, with elements that push everything, without consultation with civil society. Do you dispute that? This is because the opposition requested hearings or opinions. And after a vote – because the majority wanted to vote – we obtained the opinion of the Office of the High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR). What does this opinion say? He said that "the text contains four main elements: protection, simplification of procedures, combating abuse and return policy." For UNHCR, "the last two parts largely take precedence over the other two recitals." They say very clearly that "your text is not balanced in terms of the protection of asylum seekers and that it sets the stage for return policy and the fight against abuse." The UNHCR representative, Vanessa Saenen, said that "you put forward objective but vague criteria." I am happy when - I hope this will appear in the transcript - you say that "if the person concerned does not want to have access to his gsm, we will not go." But in the law, it's not registered. UNHCR said that "the criteria are so vague that almost all applicants can find themselves there and be considered as not cooperating." In case of lack of cooperation, what does your text provide? Locking up in closed centres and thus a worsening of the situation of asylum seekers! I would like to see an opening, but basically the text is not at all balanced.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip194x.u132	Mr Secretary of State, earlier you tried to make me say that the text of the Commission for the Protection of Privacy did not mention the word "disproportional". If that is absolutely true, it clearly shows that there is a disproportion. I'm going to go back to the extract in question about consent. When you want to have access to a tool that shows the content of privacy, it is fully respectful of the principle of privacy law in the event of consent. And what does the commission say? "The person concerned", the asylum seeker, "is therefore in a situation of submission, where the CGRA employee's request to access the smartphone or private information on his Facebook page will be quickly considered by the latter as an injunction and an obligation". This perception of the asylum-seeker will be reinforced by the fact that the asylum-seeker is informed that "in the absence of satisfactory explanations of his refusal to give access to his digital information systems, it will be considered a breach of the obligation of cooperation". The committee concludes: "This lack of cooperation can be considered as a negative element in the examination of the application for international protection". (Pages 34 to 36 of the explanatory memorandum). It follows that such consent is not dissociated from the obligation of cooperation in respect of the asylum-seeker. This, Mr Pivin, is indeed disproportionate, Mr Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip194x.u133	Mr Secretary of State, you are actually saying that the current draft law has its flaws, but that you will restore it with a royal decision. It is clear that it has its flaws, because otherwise there would have been no negative advice from the Privacy Committee. You try to reassure us and say that you will do so carefully, that you are not going to have too serious consequences if, in specific cases, an asylum seeker refuses to give access to, for example, his smartphone, that you are going to deal reasonably with it. Except you're asking us a lot of questions right now. After all, the Privacy Committee says the following in point 18: "Guarantees must be provided against arbitrary measures and decisions. This is not the case in this case." In other words, a good law must provide guarantees against arbitrariness and abuse. I think we all agree on this, including Mr Pivin. Mr Pivin, the Privacy Commission says that these guarantees are not provided by your Secretary of State's bill. Will you really approve that bill as a Member of Parliament? The Secretary of State says that this will be settled in a royal decree. Mr Secretary of State, if you want to offer guarantees against abuse and arbitrariness, you will simply arrange it in the draft law itself. Why didn't you amend your bill? There was sufficient inspiration for this, because we have put enough arguments before you in committee. However, the legal text was not amended. So you're actually asking us for a blank cheque. You ask us to approve a bad draft law with the promise that you will fix the legislative text with a royal decree that will be approved by you in the coming weeks and months. We may then be able to discuss this royal decision with you in committee through an oral question. So you're asking very much. We will not approve of that. Mr Pivin, you are in the Chair as a Member of Parliament. I ask you not to give a blank cheque to the executive either. I would ask you not to approve a bad bill that may have to be repaired afterwards. Come on, what are we doing? I thought we should focus on good legislative work. We will not, I hope, approve bad draft laws here, will we?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip194x.u134	Mr De Vriendt, I am not asking for a blank cheque at all. In any case, you are voting against what we know in the meantime. There was therefore no blank cheque given to the parties of the majority. The majority of the parties, including Mrs Lanjri and Mr Pivin, have stated that we must take account of the UNHCR's advice and the advice of the Privacy Commission in a conscientious manner. A royal decree negotiated in the government will be issued. As with everything I have submitted here over the past three years, and also before as a Member of Parliament, that royal decision will be in line with European law, international law and the basic principles of our Belgian Constitution. So we will know in a few months' time what the legal practice will be in transposing the European Asylum Directive, because that is what we are talking about in the end. I can only say that the Council of State did not make any comments. Like all the other draft laws I have tabled, my royal decree will also be judged by the majority. By the way, I don't think I'm just gonna get a blank check, do I, Mrs. Lanjri? That's gonna be hard. I am not under any illusions about that either. Everything is very well talked through and viewed from all sides. It's international law correct. I just want to say that all the matters that I have so far submitted in the Chamber, including as a Member of Parliament together with Mrs Lanjri and others, are all based on constitutional and international legal bases and have passed the legal test with ease. Easy. We shall see, Mr De Vriendt. The NGOs may make another complaint. I wish them good luck, but as always we will try to defend it well. We will wait and see what European law says about this.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip194x.u135	Ladies and gentlemen of the majority, the Secretary of State confirms what I have just said, namely that a bad draft law is being adopted and that we will see 'what the Royal Decree brings us'. I don't want to see that. I want to approve good draft laws. Convince me, give me the contents of your KB. What's it gonna say in that KB? Then we'd like to think about approving your KB. What will it say in your KB? You can't tell me. You cannot tell Mr Pivin either. The difference is that we will not approve this and Mr Pivin will.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip194x.u136	Mr President, I really feel like I am reliving the debates that we have had in committee to the difference that they are more serene here. Without wanting to break this serenity, I must say that I will never agree with those who consider it disproportionate that an asylum-seeker should cooperate in his identification or in the preparation of his file. I can never agree with those who consider it disproportionate. The reason is that I consider, Mr Hellings, that this cooperation is the least of all and that if Belgium is a land of asylum, it is above all a state governed by the rule of law. To repeat according to the way in which you called me by saying that "these are people you probably don't want to see", for my part, Mr Hellings, I honour myself to welcome them to my territory – I don't think you were aiming at me personally – and just as much to be a citizen of a country whose rules allow me to verify that the person has the right to be in my territory and does not pose a risk to public order. That's what I'm talking about. I will conclude my speech with the following clarification, which no one will be surprised by. Within the MR Group, we believe that these projects allow for better European harmonisation through clear and more effective procedures, which is both for the State, for its administrative services and also for asylum seekers. For this reason, our group will support these two projects. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip194x.u137	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as has already been said, there are two draft laws for discussion today, which are very large and which were requested by Europe, namely the draft laws transposing the asylum procedure directive and the reception directive. We discussed the texts before the summer in committee and then approved them. However, since both UNHCR and the Privacy Committee have recently issued opinions, it was rightly decided a few weeks ago to examine the opinions in the committee thoroughly and to allocate extra time to the texts. Mr Kir, it is true that the directive should have been transposed by June 2016, as agreed in the coalition agreement. We are pleased that the text on this subject can finally be approved in Parliament, albeit with delay. The present designs are really important. They are important because the directives contribute to the development of a common European asylum policy. We have always been in favour of harmonisation at European level. If not, we will have a bid between the different countries. One country is doing one; the other is doing a little bit on top of it, with the effect of sucking up and shifting asylum seekers from one country to another. The European directives ensure that a number of minimum standards are met everywhere, including in reception. The reception must be dignified, wherever one is received, whether with us or in another Member State. There's got to be a minimum everywhere. That's important. After all, we do not live alone in the world, we live in a European context anyway, and so this harmonisation is important. What we are now doing in concrete terms in the two designs is the following. Firstly, we are putting into practice what we are obliged to do. Secondly, we are making use of the possibilities offered by the directive, which is not mandatory, but may be. Thirdly, we are responding to some of the critical comments made by the European Commission. We have not gone further, as has been said. There has been a long debate in the government on this subject, for a very long time. It is also an important issue. The text then came to Parliament. It is true that there have been long discussions in the government, including on the reading of mobile phones and whose job that is. Mrs De Coninck, as I have just said, is already doing so by the Commissioner-General for Refugees and the Stateless, and this competence will continue to be with the Commissioner-General for Refugees and the Stateless. In any case, we did not agree to any extension to DVZ. We felt that this should continue to work in the same way and possibly be incorporated into the law. After a long discussion in the government, the text was submitted to Parliament. In Parliament we have, perhaps rightly, addressed the opposition's request for hearings with the sector. Many organisations in the field have chosen to deliver their opinions in writing, rather than come to the hearings and engage in dialogue. UNHCR stated that there was a shortage of staff, which meant that it could not give its advice until after the summer. That was also awaited. That was right, because the Agency has given important advice. After the recess, we were confronted with the new advice from UNHCR. Following a question from Mr Hellings, there was also an opinion from the Privacy Commission. I was somewhat surprised, by the fact that the Privacy Committee had never had a problem with these existing practices in previous years and suddenly did. In any case, we do not think it is bad that things are now being done transparently and that they are being defined in the legislation. If the Privacy Commission believes that this should have been communicated earlier, then we need to rectify the problem now and we need to set up a KB to clarify it. I assume that the KB will mainly describe how it is happening today. Why do we put that in a C.B. and not in a law? Mr De Vriendt, social media is extremely volatile. Everything's changing so fast. Instagram's not five years old. Snapchat was in and out for a while. If one uses a KB, one can easily follow developments closely and adjust texts if one finds that something is not working or not working properly. CD&V will ensure that such matters are done correctly.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip194x.u138	Mrs Lanjri, Mr De Vriendt asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip194x.u139	Mrs. Lanjri, you're making it a caricature. This is not about the fact that social media is evolving very quickly and about whether we should put Snapchat and what comes next in the law. No, the Privacy Committee asks for a legal framework on much more fundamental issues. I'd like to present it to you. It is about who will carry out the investigation, with what form, about the fact that the Commissioner-General's staff member has a great deal of freedom, that there are far too few guarantees as to how far access to private data can go, how they can access it, how the data is ultimately stored, who translates and interprets the data and how to guarantee authenticity. The conclusion of the Privacy Committee is that the legal framework is severely inadequate. It is often the case that a royal decree follows a bill and a law, but the legal framework must be sufficiently strong. The Privacy Commission considers that this is clearly not the case here. I just wanted to improve that. It's not about WhatsApp, Snapchat.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip194x.u140	Mr De Vriendt, it is right that the Privacy Commission should ask those questions, because apparently she was not aware of the fact that it had done so before. It has been explicitly stated in committee that the royal decree will be drawn up and that it will also be delivered to the Privacy Commission. If there is anything missing, it may even make comments on this matter. That gives us more legal certainty than if we put something into a law and then find that we still have to adapt something. A royal decision is also a legislative framework. It is important that it is properly worked out. Now there's already some in the law, which wasn't the case in the past. There used to be nothing in the law and yet it was done. Now the law contains a framework and that framework will be specified in a royal decree. The advantage of a royal decision is that, if necessary, we can adapt it in all directions after evaluation. In addition to the royal decree, which comes before the Privacy Commission, there will be a royal decision to respond to a request from UNHCR. I welcome the fact that this opinion has been taken into account. UNHCR had noted that if an adult who has applied for asylum dies, the application for asylum for the minor could be cancelled. That problem is now being addressed. A Royal Decree will clarify that the minor's file is not intended to be dealt with further. That too is a good thing, because we have to rely on the protection of the weakest, which minors are certain of. In substance, the drafts will introduce clear, rapid, efficient and quality asylum procedures. The same goes for the shelter. What is important to us is that specific measures are also taken to protect vulnerable people. That has always been a battle point for us. If you need protection, you need protection. For those who are not eligible for protection, a return policy must be pursued. However, this must always be done with the necessary safeguards and with respect for fundamental rights. Besides, there's no other way. The European directive would not allow it.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip194x.u141	Mrs Lanjri, Mr De Vriendt has been asking for an interruption for some time.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip194x.u142	Mrs. Lanjri, I'll be back at the KB. If I understand correctly, CD&V here will adopt a draft law that has a far too vague general legal framework and has received a negative opinion from the Privacy Commission. Then you say that this is no problem at all and that the KB will solve all that. However, the difference is, of course, that a law requires a majority in Parliament. The control of the creation of a law is therefore much tighter. It has been worn much wider than a KB, which can or cannot be changed. You will therefore approve a draft law which gives the Secretary of State a great deal of freedom, including a secretary of state of another government. We can then do what we want at KB, without Parliament interfering, with that far too broad legal framework. That is a particularly heavy responsibility, which you bear as a government party. You're handing over a free pass to the executive.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip194x.u143	Mr De Vriendt, I have already answered your question twice, and I will not do that again. I'm moving on. As has already been said, the asylum procedure is being adapted in several respects. For us, it is particularly important that adequate attention is paid to vulnerable people. In the design we find several examples of this. For example, there will be systematic identification of whether someone needs an adapted procedure. For example, a female interpreter can be asked for someone who has been genitally mutilated or who has been raped. There may also be an on-the-spot interview of the asylum seeker as a result of illness or appropriate methodologies may be used. Secondly, the best interests of the child will always be taken as a starting point. It is also new that accompanied minors themselves can be heard in the procedure. The possibilities for placing asylum seekers in detention are limited simply because they have applied for asylum. The definition of vulnerability in the context of reception will be extended. It is also clarified that there must always be medical assistance and a decent standard of living. Mr Secretary of State, I have already questioned you about this in the past. I am glad that this is now further clarified in the law. I am also counting on you to ensure, particularly in the practical application, that when people are expelled from care for some reason, their vulnerability is always assessed, and that they are always entitled to medical care and to a decent standard of living. From now on, applications for asylum will be made in two stages. First there is the registration, then the application is submitted within a maximum period of 30 days. The criticism was that this period was too long. For the record, this is a maximum period. One can apply if one wants to apply much earlier. On the positive side, the law clearly states that there must be a decision within six months. The entire route must then be completed. Again, we are calling for rapid procedures of up to six months. It is important that it contains the principle of "within six months." In addition, for specific dossiers, such as for people with multiple applications or for people coming from safe countries, an accelerated procedure is possible. It is also important to ensure a personal interview for all asylum seekers. They must be heard at least once by the Commissioner-General for Refugees and the Stateless. In the past, this did not always happen to accompanied minors. Now the obligation to cooperate is also clarified. It is based on the principle that the applicant himself brings the necessary elements. We had the discussion. It may be that the asylum seeker himself shows his cell phone or Facebook account. This can be done on your own initiative, on request. He can also refuse. That has been said in committee, and that has been said again today. For the record, this is not the only element. One always has the benefit of the doubt. It is important that this will certainly not automatically lead to a refusal. Sometimes people are placed in detention because they pose a risk of hiding. This is now clearly defined in the law. Twelve criteria have been agreed, but it is not the case that, if one of these criteria is met, one is automatically placed in detention. The risk of hiding must always be current and real. This means that DVZ must always individually motivate why someone is placed in detention. It cannot be that after the list has been ticked off and the person concerned met one of the criteria, he is placed in detention. That's not how it's gonna work. What is also important and very often asked by the sector is that in future the Council of Foreign Ministers will be able to deal with all appeals against a decision of the Commissioner-General for Refugees and the Stateless. They will in future be dealt with in full jurisdiction. This means that the Council of Foreign Ministers can confirm, cancel or reform them. I have been in Parliament for 13 years and I have been asked by the sector many times. I am glad that it is being implemented everywhere now, because there used to be a lot of exceptions. The present draft law also introduces a number of new concepts, such as the safe third country, which is not the same as safe country of origin. For example, in the case of safe countries of origin, we have a list drawn up on the advice of the Commissioner-General for Refugees and the Stateless. Here there will be no working with a list. The Commissioner-General for Refugees and the Stateless will always check whether someone still has the right to apply for asylum and whether they could have obtained protection in the safe third country. The fact that a safe third country passes through does not automatically lead to the rejection of an asylum application. These guarantees are very important to us. Finally, we are also working on an effective return policy. That might be the hardest part. A while ago, we had discussions about this in Parliament. However, every policy on asylum and migration needs to be brought to a close, and that is the end of the road to return policy. However, that must always be correct and humane. The previous and current governments have always said that return policy must be based on the principle of "voluntary if possible, forced if necessary." That's what we're going for. Within that framework, we agreed to the proposed amendments. The draft law contains a number of new provisions to prevent abuses of multiple applications. There is also a carousel clause that prevents people from submitting new applications over and over again, just to prevent a removal. For the record, everyone continues to have the right to submit a second, third or even fourth application if there are new elements, if that is permitted. Against abuse, if only to prevent the expulsion of the country, we must, of course, act. At the last committee meeting a few weeks ago, in response to the UNHCR's opinion, I expressed my concern that a number of cases were described in the explanatory memorandum but perhaps better reflected in the legislative text. I have asked questions about the burden of proof and the obligation of cooperation that applies to the CGIS. The Secretary of State has assured us that the explanation in the explanatory memorandum is sufficient that it is not necessary to include it in the legal text itself. We can live with that. The two draft laws before us form a balanced whole. We are particularly satisfied with the additional protection measures for vulnerable persons and the guarantees of proper treatment of asylum applications, as provided for in the European Procedure and Reception Directives. We have no choice but to apply it in this way. We shall vote in favour of these two draft laws, as we did in committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-09-54-plenair-ip194x.u144	I'm gonna close the meeting for a little technical break. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Thursday 9 November 2017 at 6.30 p.m. The meeting is adjourned. Next sitting on Thursday, 9 November 2017 at 6.30 p.m.
