ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-18-54-commissie-ic567x.u1	Mrs Van Hoof and Mrs Dierick are not present.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-18-54-commissie-ic567x.u2	Minister, booksellers, in the sense of "newspaper dealers", are worried about the decision of the National Lottery to reduce the commission on its products from 6 to 4.5% from April 2017. Such a change could threaten the viability of the weakest bookstores, given that this sector is particularly precarious, with a particularly high bankruptcy rate. The periodical of the Union of Middle Classes classified this information in its section of bad news and the president of the Neutral Union for Independents (SNI) also expressed concern about the decision. In a letter to the booksellers, which wants to be reassuring, the National Lottery specifies that this decrease of the fixed commission is accompanied by additional bonuses and commissions which in many cases would "compensate" this decrease. I use the conditional here. This letter indicates that "the new point-of-sale payment system will be more favourable for those of you who are making real efforts as shown in the following table". This table presents seven segments. For the first five segments, the percentage of future compensation would be higher than the current percentage of actual compensation, while it would be lower for segments 6 and 7. On what basis are these seven segments defined? It seems to me that it is based on the turnover Lottery of the booksellers. Do you confirm that? How are the above-mentioned two percentages of remuneration, current and future, determined? What proportion of the total library population does it represent in segments 6 and 7? Will this new system not penalise the weakest booksellers, those whose situation is already particularly precarious? Will this penalization of the weakest bookstores not be accentuated by the fact that the National Lottery removes certain products from them? Is this new pricing not yet going to add to the administrative and commercial tasks of the booksellers, including the "mapping" of customers? The increase in the share of bonuses and the "real efforts" demanded of the booksellers will not encourage them to push customers to spend more or too much money in the games of the National Lottery, which could lead to drifts for some people suffering from gambling addiction?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-18-54-commissie-ic567x.u3	Colleagues, with regard to the new remuneration policy, the National Lottery has indicated to me that it is intended to encourage outlets to participate actively in the promotion of lottery products with a view to channelling. To achieve this objective, the National Lottery introduced a variable element in the calculation of basic remuneration. The objective is also to empower resellers in the payment of earnings and compliance with the operational instructions required for the activity. Like all other sectors of activity active in retailing, the National Lottery segmented its outlets according to weekly average turnover from a given reference period. In this case, it divided them into seven segments. The lowest segment, segment 7, corresponds to the minimum contractual commitment to which points of sale with a conventional sales terminal have committed themselves. The National Lottery wishes to continue to give the outlets a commission. This 6% commission – this is a new element – is now divided as follows: a fixed commission of 4.5% and a so-called service commission of 1.5% or 1% – only segment 7 is concerned – which corresponds to the correct payment of the earnings and the practical exercise of the operational instructions that are given by the National Lottery. The other novelty is that a calculation for the commission is made by segment. A minimum threshold must be met. For an average point of sale, located in segment 4 and equipped with a normal terminal, this 6% commission (4.5 + 0.75 + 0.75) will yield at least the same result as before. In parallel, the National Lottery also intends to support its resellers and devote a certain amount to the organization of temporary promotional actions, thus giving the outlets the opportunity to collect - with active participation -, in addition to the fixed commissions, the variable commission I have just mentioned to you. It is important to distinguish between outlets: supermarkets, bpost, gas stations, supermarkets, bookstores. The new system is beneficial to the latter, since they are over-represented in the segments of the National Lottery with the most profitable turnover – i.e. the segments ranging from 1 to 5 – and under-represented in segments 6 and 7. The number of bookstores that, prior to the introduction of the new remuneration system, did not meet the contractual threshold to which they had committed is small compared to the total number of outlets. I repeat: this is segment 7, while most bookstores are in segments 1 to 5. We're talking about less than 4% here. Adapting the supply of products put on sale will, according to the National Lottery, allow small outlets to reduce their costs, since the offer is adapted, and also reduce their workload because they will no longer have to follow the whole range of scratch games and will have less inventory to manage. Points of sale may at any time, via the sales terminal, take notice of the weekly sales made. I think I also mentioned this in the proposal for the management programme. We also talked about the commissions. Here, this new committee system was made in consultation with a number of sectoral organisations such as Vlaamse Federatie van Persverspreiders, Prodipresse, Perstablo, UCM-Unizo. For the moment, as was already the case in our discussion of the management contract, each bookstore or point of sale is contacted individually to explain in the most educational way possible, of course, what the consequences of this new remuneration model are and what it will be for them in a more specific way.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-18-54-commissie-ic567x.u4	Minister, thank you for your answer and for your direct translation. However, you have not completely reassured me. It is true that you are quite logical in the direction of the Lottery which is very reassuring towards the booksellers. I have echoes of booksellers who are worried and who are in segments 6 and 7, so devalued in the new system. You didn't tell me exactly how much segments 6 and 7 represented. You told me that segment 7 was less than 4%. Segment 6, I don't know. I read in a brochure from the Lottery, in their guide, that segments 6 represent up to 3,000 euros of average weekly sales. Three thousand euros a week: I don't know the bookseller sector well, but I think it's already pretty good in terms of selling Lottery products. So I felt it might concern a lot of booksellers who would be in the segments, maybe not 7 but 6. I regret that I did not have a specific answer to my question 3. I remain with the idea that the sector is very sensitive, and the bankruptcy rate very important. It is precisely the weaker bookstores that will be disadvantaged in this new system, while you tell us that it will reduce their costs for segment 7. But it'll reduce their recipes too! So, I think that for the bookstores that are on the steep rope, that might be the factor that will rush them to the wrong side of this stiff rope. I am therefore afraid that this decision of the Lottery that you seem to support will ultimately have quite negative effects for a whole series of booksellers.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-18-54-commissie-ic567x.u5	Mr President, Madam Minister, this question was actually meant as a written question, but we have had a mistake, and since I am here, I may as well put it orally. Traditionally, the final balance for the previous financial year will be published at the beginning of January. So far, that hasn't happened to my knowledge. Why hasn't that happened yet? Can you give the final balance of the 2016 joint budget? In particular, what is the final balance of Entity I's budget? When will this be communicated?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-18-54-commissie-ic567x.u6	Mr President, Mrs Temmerman, I thought that oral questions have more weight in the classification, so it is better that it is an oral question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-18-54-commissie-ic567x.u7	That depends on the answer you will give, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-18-54-commissie-ic567x.u8	This is of no interest to the classification of the Member of Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-18-54-commissie-ic567x.u9	Give us a scoop.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-18-54-commissie-ic567x.u10	No, no scoop today, Mr President. [[Laughter]] Mrs Temmerman, when you say that traditional communication is taking place at the beginning of January on the balance for the previous financial year, you refer to a somewhat further past. In the past, when cash figures were still used, it was indeed customary for the estimate of the balance to be published in the first days of the year. Working in ESA implies that the closure of the year does not coincide with the calendar year, but that for certain categories of revenue or expenditure it is necessary to wait until the end of January, February or April to have definitive figures for the previous year. In recent years, therefore, communication on the balance has been postponed until the end of January. We're almost there, but not quite. Last year, for example, a press release was distributed on 27 January. The postponement of the estimate to the end of January means that it is still an estimate, but that the uncertainties are already much smaller than when we come out with a figure at the beginning of January. During January, figures will be available on the results for December of the previous year and forecasts for the current month of January and possibly subsequent months will be updated. It is important to be able to take these data into account in order to be able to come out with stabilised figures. No one will benefit from a figure that needs to be adjusted the day after its publication. We know that. I would therefore prefer to give some time to my administration to stabilize the figures before communicating on the estimated balance. I can already give you no scoop, but nevertheless an information that the trend in the figures is rather positive and that the estimate is likely to be more positive than expectations a few months ago.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-18-54-commissie-ic567x.u11	Are you satisfied with the answer that there is a prospect of staying below 3%, Mrs Temmerman?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-18-54-commissie-ic567x.u12	I am for the good of our country. Of course, Mr President, why should I find that negative? We'll check the numbers when we get them.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-18-54-commissie-ic567x.u13	Thank you. In this good atmosphere we close the meeting. Mr Dispa, you have set the tone, just like Mrs Temmerman. I think we're going to have a good year, in a positive way between majority and opposition.
