ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-23-54-plenair-ip159x.u1	The meeting is open. The meeting was opened.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-23-54-plenair-ip159x.u2	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 22 February 2017, I propose that you enter on the agenda of this afternoon's plenary session: - the draft law amending the Law of 26 July 1996 on the promotion of employment and the preventive safeguarding of competitiveness, Nos 2248/1 to 8. - the draft law on workable and manoeuvrable work, Nos 2247/1 to 8, and the proposals attached thereto: - the legislative proposal (Mrs Sybille de Coster-Bauchau, Mr Olivier Chastel, Mr Denis Ducarme and David Clarinval, Mrs Stéphanie Thoron and Mrs Kattrin Jadin and Mr Benoît Friart) to allow the granting of leave to a parent of a seriously ill child, Nos 1501/1 and 2; - the motion for a resolution (Mrs Catherine Fonck) on the modernization of the organization of work, No. 1909/1. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 22 February 2017, I propose that you include in the agenda of this afternoon's plenary session: - the draft law amending the Act of 26 July 1996 on the promotion of employment and the preventive safeguard of competitiveness, Nos. 2248/1 to 8. - the draft law on feasible and manageable work, Nos. 2247/1 to 8, and the attached proposals: - the bill (Ms Sybille de Coster-Bauchau, MM. Olivier Chastel, Denis Ducrame and David Clarinval, Ms. Stéphanie Thoron and Ms. Kattrin Jadin and Mr. Benoît Friart) to allow the donation of leave days to a parent of a seriously ill child, Nos. 1501/1 and 2; - the motion for a resolution (Ms Catherine Fonck) to modernise the organisation of work, No 1909/1. I have received amendments from the PS and sp.a groups to the Bill No. 2248/1 to 8. If other groups want to table amendments, I ask them to send them as soon as possible. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-23-54-plenair-ip159x.u3	Mr President, would it be possible to warn groups that are not represented in the Conference of Presidents when changes of agenda are decided on Wednesday? It would make sense for us to be kept informed, whether by telephone or by e-mail. The deadline is short.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-23-54-plenair-ip159x.u4	We shall pay attention to this, Mr Hedebouw. We will pay attention to that. Does anyone else want to speak on the agenda?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-23-54-plenair-ip159x.u5	Mr President, I have a question about the amendments that are being sent to the Council of State. We have indeed discussed this at the Conference of Presidents. I understood that both the amendments to the draft law reforming the financing of social security and the amendments to the draft law on workable and manoeuvrable work would go through you to the Council of State. I think I just heard you mention one of them.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-23-54-plenair-ip159x.u6	That wasn't part of the deal. The agreement was that we would limit it to the amendments to the draft law amending the law of 1996 on competitiveness. To that end, the agreement was limited. It was not about the draft law on workable and manoeuvrable work.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-23-54-plenair-ip159x.u7	(...) draft law reforming the financing of social security.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-23-54-plenair-ip159x.u8	That's something else. This item will not be added to the agenda. It was already...
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-23-54-plenair-ip159x.u9	And the amendments to the 1996 law go to the Council of State?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-23-54-plenair-ip159x.u10	That's right. Everyone agrees on that? [[Assent]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-23-54-plenair-ip159x.u11	Prime Minister, the last few weeks have been proof that a full-fledged Brussels region was a terrible mistake. The Region, which is not even able to maintain itself, chooses, with the abolition of the tolerance thresholds for noise standards and with the massive imposition of high fines, to abolish the airport at Zaventem. The Brussels government is wiping its feet at the federal loyalty. She even goes outside the law in order to be able to issue fines, with the new "Madame Non', Minister Fremault, in the lead, slaves followed by the Flemish ministers in that Brussels government, Debaets, Smet and Vanhengel. What CD&V is about to come here and the views it takes in the Flemish government are diametrically opposed to what it does in the Brussels government. That is what medication is for, ladies and gentlemen: it is very schizophrenic to file a conflict of interest against yourself and to say that it is not legal. Prime Minister, several airlines have already indicated that they want to leave Zaventem. We are talking about 60,000 jobs that are under threat. The Brussels Minister for DéFI, Didier Gosuin, sees it as a purely Flemish problem, because only one employee out of ten comes from Brussels in Zaventem. He should be very concerned, given the high level of unemployment in Brussels. However, he only sees it as an opportunity to relocate flights from Flanders to Wallonia, passenger traffic to Charleroi and cargo transport to Bierset near Liège. Prime Minister, at a working meeting this morning, you agreed to move this dossier to working groups for the next three weeks. Afterwards, you will quickly come to a solution. Everyone agrees that the 60 days that we have before Brussels will impose these disastrous fines are very tight to come up with a structural solution. What are you gonna do if you can't do that, which seems likely? What will you do if the 60 days of the second conflict of interest of the Flemish Government have expired? Will you then file a conflict of interest yourself? What's your plan B?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-23-54-plenair-ip159x.u12	Mr President, Prime Minister, on 22 February should have been synonymous with tranquillity and tranquillity for the inhabitants of the Brussels Region and its immediate periphery. The Brussels-Capital Region intended strictly to apply noise standards not to be exceeded by aircraft on arrival and departure from Brussels-National. We finally reached the end of a period of tolerance. But that is not the case. The overflight file continues to be poorly managed. This time, more than any other, you and your government are fully responsible. In this regard, I would like to retrace a small history of this issue. You'll understand what I'm getting at. When you answered my question in plenary on 26 January, you said: "There is no question of extending the deadline for the suspension of the application of wind standards by 60 days." You were right: from now on, it is no longer a suspension of noise standards, but fines in case of infringement of them. In other words, the aircraft will continue untiringly, but above all illegally, to fly over the Brussels Region without worrying about the respect of noise and wind standards, but also in disregard of sanctions. The Flemish Government has once again launched a conflict-of-interest procedure without taking into account one of the inalienable and most essential rights: the protection of the environment, from which the right to a healthy and quality environment for the Brussels people and the inhabitants of the periphery derives. As far as this is necessary, I would remind you that this right is recognized by our Constitution in Article 23. It is also recognised by European legislation, but also by the case law of the European Court of Human Rights. I would also point out that the only weapon of the citizens and the Brussels-Capital Region in this case is the Gosuin Decree, also known as the "noise" decree and which entered into force on 1 January 2000. Seventeen years have passed. Despite the constant appeals, the highest courts in that country had ruled in favour of compliance with that text. Is it still reasonable, Prime Minister, to consider that a solution can be found? Can the inhabitants of the Region and its periphery still hope for a lasting and equitable solution? Finally, will your government continue to sit down on the basic rules of our state by refusing again the application of the Brussels Region's "noise" order? Thank you in advance for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-23-54-plenair-ip159x.u13	Mr President, Prime Minister, you understand the seriousness of the situation very well. It concerns the employment of 60,000 people at and around the airport. Everyone here in the Plenum can see that you've been sticking your neck out for this file in the last few weeks and that you've shown leadership to offer a solution to it. In addition to a dossier on employment, ladies and gentlemen, this is mainly a safety dossier. Planes still don't take off vertically. They must rise up against the wind to have enough strength to get safely into the air. So, ladies and gentlemen, it is about the safety of the people on that plane, and also about the safety of the people living under the routes. Now there is time to work out a negotiated solution. We believe that this can best be done by a group of experts from the aviation sector. In that context, I am thinking of people from Belgocontrol, pilots, sound engineers. They should give advice in all objectivity on the best flight routes to be followed, based on the safety and public health parameters. Our party really hopes that the Regions will come to solutions in an adult way, in all reasonableness, in the interests of all the inhabitants of this country. We, the Flemish Liberals, Prime Minister, will support you in this. At the same time, ladies and gentlemen, we must not be blind to the real problem of two different noise standards at a few kilometres around Zaventem. That fact means that the safety of the people living around is compromised and that our economy is also thwarted. If we want a structural solution, ladies and gentlemen, we must dare to think about removing these noise standards from the regions in the future and reorganising them at federal level. So, uh, reinstating. In this context, I have the following questions for you, Prime Minister. Will you encourage the various regions to be advised by the technical working group, without cabintards, but with aviation technicians? Was there a timing scheduled this morning? Do you have any guarantees from Brussels that they will not start collecting the fines?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-23-54-plenair-ip159x.u14	Mr President, Prime Minister, aviation jobs are still under pressure. Making hallucinatory statements about which conflict of interest one may or should be allowed to accept is not helping. Nor does it help that Brussels wants 100% of the nuisance to go to Flanders. That way we won't get out. We know that the Brussels parties, both on the Flemish and French-speaking sides, no longer care about the federal loyalty of which they used to speak. I am pleased that Mr Vandenput is calling on his colleagues from Open Vld in Brussels to be reasonable and calling them on the finger, because it is there that things are going wrong. The fact that he goes so far as to deprive them of even the power to make a decision on this matter is even more punitive to me. Prime Minister, we must move forward. We have a good basis for this. We have signed an airport agreement of 2010 by many parties, by the PS, by the cdH, by the Flemish parties in Brussels. That must be the basis, because it says very clearly that it cannot be that flights are concentrated over densely populated areas such as the Flemish Rand. This means that we must proceed to a fair and fair distribution of the nuisance. And there are also the jobs that provide prosperity both in Brussels and in Flanders. Prime Minister, we must sit together around the table to work out a solution that is supported by everyone. Of course, there can no longer be any question of meeting with the knife on the table, but we need to know how to deal with this dossier in a targeted and mature manner, without saying anything different in Brussels than in this Chamber, so that steps are taken to protect the jobs concerned. We have asked you to take over the file and you have done so. What do you think is the path to be followed to find a solution that ensures that the jobs are protected and that at the same time the aspirations of the inhabitants are met?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-23-54-plenair-ip159x.u15	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, there is a start to dialogue and that is a good point. But a lasting solution will only come if the government changes its method and software. The issue of overflight is not a community issue. It's environmental. Brussels Airport, which manages the national airport, and its supporters that we have just heard, makes the airlines, its customers, believe that Brussels and the two Brabant are the Far West; a desert without faith and, above all, without law. No! For economic activity to be sustainable, rules must govern it. Mr. Bellot, the impotent mayor of Rochefort, knows that. A multi-national lime company would like to exploit more deeply a career in its municipality or an entity in Jemelle. If this quarry were to exploit lime in an uncontrolled manner, the water of the Rochefortois as well as – I turn to the cdH benches – the rock-forth Trappist would be impacted. What I mean, Prime Minister, is that the respect that we owe to the environment of the Rochefortois and the Trappist beer, we owe it to the citizens who fly over Brussels and in both Brabant. This has been well understood by airports elsewhere in Europe. In Vienna and Eindhoven, where airports are comparable to Brussels, they introduced what the Greens call the "environmental night" that one would like to extend to all of Europe. My question is simple: since this is a solution that can be reached in the short term, it is a quick win that Mr Bellot calls for. When are you finally going to apply this night solution?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-23-54-plenair-ip159x.u16	Mr Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, when I heard the news this morning that the government and the Regions have agreed to objectify the dossier, I thought that was the first positive signal in months. We have no interest in a confrontation between Brussels and Flanders. We must ensure that the dossier is subject to a number of parameters, especially technical parameters, in the next few weeks. We are talking about flight routes and runways, but in the end aircraft still have to take off according to certain criteria, taking into account wind standards and the availability of aircraft control technology. One cannot ask that aircraft take off in a different way every hour. It's impossible for the pilots. Belgocontrol and the FPS Mobility have a huge know-how. We have been discussing the use of jobs and routes for 15 years now. If there is the political will to achieve a more balanced distribution, based on the 2010 airport agreement as suggested by Mr Wollants, then I am optimistic. Solutions are possible. In 2010, the Secretary of State succeeded in bringing the various parties to some sort of airport peace, which lasted four years. We must stop playing each other down and turning it into a legal issue. I am pleased, Prime Minister, that Minister Bellot will now take the initiative, as I have read, to make proposals. The two regions are asked to take a positive look at this, in order to solve the two-sided existential problem: the problem of employment and the problem of noise pollution, which affects people. The latter should not be underestimated. Today there is a positive signal. What procedure will be followed? I have heard that working groups will be set up. There is time pressure, but solutions on the ground must be possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-23-54-plenair-ip159x.u17	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this issue raises an environmental question, but more importantly, a question of public health. Tens of thousands of families are affected, whether they live in Flanders, Brussels or Wallonia. Their sleep is greatly disturbed, and their health suffers. At the time of the election campaign, Prime Minister, you made promises. In your government agreement, you made it clear that "the densely populated areas should be relieved". Minister Galant herself had made a whole series of promises, but the only decision your government has taken so far is to send the majority of night flights from the ring road to the canal road. It's a decision your government has made. Minister Bellot, when he arrived, engaged in consultation and, obviously, he also made proposals. Since your government was set up, two and a half years have passed. The Brussels government has made proposals. I heard yesterday that the Flemish regional government had made a proposal, although it should be noted that the latter does not take into account the number of people suffering the impact of the flights and the importance of this impact. Indeed, landings on runways 25 L or R, which take place on areas that are not habitable, are placed on the same foot as take-offs on the canal road at night. I appeal because I regret that the federal government, whose responsibility, role and jurisdiction it is, has not yet made a proposal. However, if we want to get out of it from the top, we must ensure that Minister Bellot's proposals are discussed in consultation with the Regions, and that all levels of government concerned can discuss them. That is how we can find a solution; the challenge is to get out of the crisis from the top and find a solution for the tens of thousands of families who are now directly overrun and penalized.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-23-54-plenair-ip159x.u18	Mr President, my group has sought solutions. We could do all kinds of things. For example, we could set up a language-cross-border intercommunal to investigate that problem that could even make a construction company part of it. We could also ask for proposals from the Telenet Advisory Council, which is also a possibility. However attractive these proposals may be for the four traditional parties, we do not think they are good proposals. My group has thoroughly examined the case law of the Constitutional Court and the Council of State on noise standards. It offers prospects. There are options. I'm declaring myself. When a search party asks a locksmith to open a door, that man is not guilty of breaking and entering. Why isn't he guilty of breaking and entering? Because there is a justification, namely a government order. It would then be logical for an airline to follow the instructions of Belgocontrol, instructions it has to follow for safety reasons, where there would also be a government order. However, the Brussels-Capital Region bypasses that by not working with criminal sanctions but with administrative fines not covered by that public order, Article 70. Are they outsmarting us? Luckily, no, there are other options. My group will put forward a legislative proposal to allow that government order, which is a general principle of law, to apply also in criminal law, liability law and contract law to those who comply with Belgocontrol's instructions. I now turn to all Flemish parties. They're always talking about jobs, jobs, jobs, we're gonna save jobs. Next Monday, you will all find that bill in your mailbox. We'll all invite you to sign it with us. We'll see if you have the guts to do that. Either you have the courage to do it and then we will effectively save thousands of jobs, or you will play along with the hidden agenda of the French-speaking parties, especially Zaventem, and move those jobs to Bierset and Charleroi. Mr Prime Minister, that is why I am asking you. What do you want to do with the file?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-23-54-plenair-ip159x.u19	Mr President, Prime Minister, I could sum up my speech in one question: who in this federal government is still defending the Brussels people? After the lockdown, after the dismantling of the federal museums in Brussels, after the federal police deserted the Brussels metros, we see once again, with this dossier of the overflight of Brussels, that no one in this federal government defends the Brussels! Prime Minister, by accepting the dilatory measures of the Flemish Government and Flanders to refuse to reduce the pressure on Brussels, you are giving Flanders and in no way to the Brussels people! We know about Stockholm syndrome. Prime Minister, we could talk about an Antwerp syndrome in your home, as much as you are now subject to the N-VA Diktat! One wonders when you will still make balanced decisions for the three regions of this country. Stop talking about surprise! It has been two years since the Brussels government said that it will implement the "noise" decree, which dates back to 1999. All the courts had given him reason, international standards gave him reason, and the Dutch-speaking parties also gave the Brussels government a reason. Prime Minister, the only thing that the Brussels people are asking for is respect for their health and respect for their safety! For the last two and a half years, the Brussels government has been asking you for a consultation. There were none! Now that you're back to the wall, at last, you're giving yourself sixty days to conduct a dialogue. Prime Minister, we are facing the wall because of the immobility of your ministers! The MR made an election campaign with the Brusselsers saying that he was going to reduce the overflight of Brussels. When will you keep your promises? When are you going to take action? Did you propose a reduction in the overflight of Brussels? The Canal route has been overloaded by Mrs. Galant. You can unload her! Is it true that Flanders asked this morning to overload Brussels for the night between 23.00 and 06.00?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-23-54-plenair-ip159x.u20	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will try to take stock of this fundamental and extremely important issue, which also puts to the test our institutional capacity to face a challenge in which, as many have said, we must combine legitimate concerns: economic development, employment, investment, environmental issues and public health issues. That's what this is about. The honour of political leaders in a democratic forum is to be able to overcome partisan interests in order to try to get closer to the general interest and to make rational decisions, with cold blood. I therefore do not intend to argue in this rostrum. I regret the last intervention which, in my view, reflects exactly how things should not be approached in this matter. I believe, on the contrary, that it is with rationality and composure that we will come closer to a solution. Two comments. Firstly, the conflicts of interest filed by the Flemish Community. I was informed that a conflict of interest would be filed. I immediately asked for two opinions: an opinion to the Chancellery and a second opinion to a constitutionalist. I made the opinions public for the members of tomorrow's Consultation Committee. Both opinions are extremely clear and effectively conclude that a second conflict of interest could be introduced at the beginning of the Flemish Government, the Flemish Community version. I have heard a few constitutionalists express, a little quickly, a number of more hostile approaches to the federal government's choice on this issue. They will have to choose between being party activists or being constitutionalists. There's a choice we have to make. [[Disputes]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-23-54-plenair-ip159x.u21	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-23-54-plenair-ip159x.u22	Colleagues, we're listening to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-23-54-plenair-ip159x.u23	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-23-54-plenair-ip159x.u24	If you have to call the emergency services, you have to say so!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-23-54-plenair-ip159x.u25	Go on, Prime Minister!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-23-54-plenair-ip159x.u26	So I was saying that cold blood is a great quality to solve a case like this one.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-23-54-plenair-ip159x.u27	Let us turn now to the bottom of this issue, a 17-year-old issue that no government has managed to solve in a sustainable way so far! What method was validated this morning at this meeting with Ministers-Presidents and Ministers of Mobility? Firstly, we have tried to make an objective list of the challenges for which it is necessary to have more objectivity and more rationality. Let me give you a few concrete examples. Some say we should adapt at night. Let us look, in a practical way, at what situations this proves possible or not; what are the constraints or the absence of constraints. Some say that when the "noise" order is applied without tolerance, there will be a very important effect, and perhaps even extremely heavy economic damage. Let us try to look objectively at the economic, environmental and public health consequences! Some say that we need to increase the dispersion of certain flights. Let us look precisely at what this proposal implies! These working groups will meet for a first period of three weeks. Each working group, under the authority of the relevant ministers, will also be able to ask for the support of independent experts or of actors in the dossier, such as the administration, Belgocontrol, ainsi que les experts aéroportuaires, pour essayer d'objectiver le plus possible la situation. In recent weeks, I have come to the conclusion that the various actors have a dialogue of the deaf, that this issue suffers from a lack of rationality and a lack of objectivity. In order to make political arbitrage, we must first reach an objective, rational, shared diagnosis. It is on this condition that we can move forward on this issue. I do not underestimate that in a few weeks' time, after the objectification, it will not be evident and not easy. We need a political arbitration. That's not easy, not obvious. I persist and sign. In a case like this, we will have to show rationality, composure and courage. And when the time comes, when we have succeeded in reaching a proposal for a pact, an intelligent compromise on this issue, courage, it will not be to say no. The courage will be to say yes to a pact, yes to an intelligent compromise, yes to ensure that stability, safety and respect for jobs, health and the environment can be given!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-23-54-plenair-ip159x.u28	Prime Minister, nine ministers in a row have been biting their teeth on the file. You indicate that it will not be easy, but you are convinced that a structural solution will be found within the 60-day period. In theory, that's possible. I'll give it to you, too. In practice, however, you know as well as I do that cooperation federalism is not working. The conflict of interest of the Flemish Community was justified. We did not need two opinions to know that. Although the conflicts of interest are justified, the French speakers simply ignore them. That is the federalism of cooperation in practice. In the BHV file at the time, the French speakers filed conflicts of interest in order to block the file for four years. In practice, it is counter-violence federalism. It's very simple. The Brussels French speakers want to leave the airport in Zaventem. There is only one way to bring them to a reasonable solution. That is to turn off the money supply, increase the pressure and stop transfers to Brussels, as long as they want to liquidate Zaventem airport. After all, Prime Minister, the only thing that will soon fly away from Zaventem airport will be thousands of jobs.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-23-54-plenair-ip159x.u29	Prime Minister, you say that the conflict of interest has the right to be applied. I believe that everything that has been said, in the press and by experts, formally contradicts it. You absolutely do not recognize the Gosuin decree as it should be applied. The inhabitants of Brussels, the periphery and the Walloon Brabant – and there are many who live near your locality – will know what to do about it. Under pressure from the majority's Flemish partners, your government is currently refusing to comply with this order. And your government is becoming a habit, refusing to comply with the decisions of the highest judicial bodies, the jurisprudence of the European Court of Human Rights and European legislation.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-23-54-plenair-ip159x.u30	On the conflict of interest?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-23-54-plenair-ip159x.u31	No, I'm saying that, in the end, you don't respect much!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-23-54-plenair-ip159x.u32	We are not going to start a discussion between each other!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-23-54-plenair-ip159x.u33	Prime Minister, we will continue to ask you questions in committee, but also in plenary. Unlike your government, we will never give up the fight so that the Brussels people, the inhabitants of the periphery and the two provinces of Brabant, can enjoy the calm, tranquillity and health to which they are truly entitled.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-23-54-plenair-ip159x.u34	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I note that some groups still do not understand the seriousness of the situation. Prime Minister, you have proved that you do. I am glad to hear that in this dossier we do not have the emotions, that we will once again focus on the fact that the technical working groups will be advised by experts from the aviation sector. Only on this basis can a negotiated solution be found in the short term. In any case, I insist that the long-term compass in this dossier will point towards re-federalisation.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-23-54-plenair-ip159x.u35	Mr Prime Minister, I think it is important that this is negotiated, because whatever solution one wants, an agreement will have to be reached anyway. This is not only the case with us, but also in other countries. There are airports such as Basel, which are exactly on the German-Swiss border, and there too we have to take steps to work out a mature solution together. Some of them have very bad memories here. I saw Mrs Onkelinx go against the ceiling in response to a number of statements, but one forgets that Mrs Onkelinx is one of the nine excellences that has been involved in the dossier. The Channel Route, which Mrs Lalieux is now fighting, was originally the Onkelinx Route. She introduced it! Let's stop politically milking the airport. Stop writing letters like Mrs Milquet in the last election saying that all those jobs have to go to Charleroi and Liège. Stop telling everyone that the PS is suddenly the party representing the Brussels people in the file, while it has agreed to the 2010 airport agreement for a fair distribution. Let's go to the essence. Let us address the issue objectively and then we have jobs, more than jobs enough.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-23-54-plenair-ip159x.u36	Mr President, the only part of Mr Wollants' intervention with which I agree is that it is true that the CDH and the PS have forgotten that they were the authors of the Wathelet dispersal plan; and it is clear that everything is being done to make this Wathelet plan forget. As far as I know, Melchior Wathelet was cdH. But it doesn't matter. Let's talk about the future! In the episode that will open today, where a method is put in place, a dialogue begins, we have the possibility, each in our political family, to carry out a work of rapprochement. We, the Greens, did it. We did. We have come to the only acceptable solution for everyone: it is the environmental night. And you're gonna make it. I join the MR and the Open Vld, the sp.a and the PS, the CD&V and the cdH – you can always believe in everything – trying to find a point of rapprochement. I do not quote the N-VA, because the N-VA is the democratic orphan of this assembly. Anyway, we all have to take a step, hear us and talk to each other. What we did. The environmental night, Prime Minister, is the solution. Allez-y!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-23-54-plenair-ip159x.u37	Prime Minister, we must indeed objectify. The aircraft dossier is also a matter of safety, of wind standards, of air quality, of aircraft weight and that sort of thing more. We have all the parameters to do that. We've known BHV, Mrs. Onkelinx. There were also contradictions in that. At the end of the day, you took on your responsibilities, regardless of a number of extremes, because the FDF is now called DéFI............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... It was then that the extremes had to be dropped. The MR then dropped the FDF, then a dialogue became possible and a compromise was indeed made in which everyone's principles were respected. Mr Cheron, you have also been involved. I call on the French speakers in Brussels and also on Ecolo not to start with new ideological discussions, but to look realistically at how the various elements can be brought about. I am convinced that solutions can be found if there is political will in this country. If you do not want to do so, Mr Hellings, if you want a clash between Flanders and Wallonia, if you want the airport to go down, if you want the burden to be shifted one-sidedly to one region, then you are actually putting at risk what you always want, especially the pace between people and solving the problems. Prime Minister, if you are working seriously in the next few weeks and everyone is willing to make an effort, then I am convinced that solutions are possible. I'm from Zaventem, I live about a mile from the runway. I am prepared to look for solutions in the name of employment and people's quality of life. That should be possible. If there is no majority in this House, then I am very pessimistic about the future of this country.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-23-54-plenair-ip159x.u38	Prime Minister, are the solutions easy? No! But are solutions possible? Yes! If I were to take one because it concerns all the people flying over, it would be to be able to spend full and quiet nights until 0700. It's vital! Just think about your daily life and think about the reality of people and families flying over! I do not want to have a legal debate here on the conflict of interest. There would be a lot to say. I take note that you have established working groups. That's good! However, it is a pity that these working groups have not been set up in the last two and a half years. The working groups are good! At the same time, gathering them on observations is a little short! What I'm asking you is to be able to bring them together around Minister Bellot's overflight plan. Minister Bellot, since you are here, obviously, you have submitted an overflight plan to Kern. The press has made this clear. Mr. Bellot is a serious minister. He's a worker. I can't imagine he didn't build an overflight plan and he didn't submit it to Kern. Since this plan exists, Minister Bellot, do not keep it for you! Put it on the table during the working groups between the Regions and the federal government, because that is how we will find solutions, if we share concrete proposals and if the federal government joins the Regions in building these proposals.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-23-54-plenair-ip159x.u39	Mr President, the French-speaking Brussels people ignore the conflict of interest and Mr Bourgeois is beginning to complain about an institutional atomic bomb. Shall I explain exactly what an institutional atomic bomb is? An institutional atomic bomb is what the French-speaking people dare and what the French-speaking people do, for example what Philippe Moureaux did in the file on arms licences in 1991, which all French-speaking parties have done for four years in the BHV dossier and what is happening now by disregarding Brussels' conflict of interest. An institutional atomic bomb is what the Flemings dare not do. It is already a miracle that a Flemish government has dared to invoke a second conflict of interest, as proposed by my group here in plenary. Now I hear that the matter has been suspended for 60 days. Who says that and how are those 60 days counted? The BHV dossier did not include all Parliament's receipt periods, so that one of the conflicts of interest lasted no less than two hundred and eighty-five days. So Flemings, show some courage now. Do what the French speakers do, dare you, count it that way. I heard the claim that the Flemish Government could invoke two conflicts of interest. That is not true, because you can call in a third and a fourth, and in due course we will tell you how to do so.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-23-54-plenair-ip159x.u40	Mr President, Prime Minister, this morning, in a concertation committee, the Brussels government did not accept Flanders's thesis. You speak here of appeasement, of cold blood, but your first words are to say: "I agree with the Flemish government on the conflict of interest." I do not find it to be balanced words, words of appeasement to try to resolve this conflict. I would also like to remind you, Prime Minister, that the only people who have made compromises today are the Brussels people. I don't know what you're talking about. I expect what Flanders is proposing. Brussels has had an order since 1999, not implemented. For the past two and a half years, it has been said that the sanctions will be applied. However, there has not been a single coordination meeting between your MR ministers and Brussels. This is total immobilization with Brussels. Brussels agreed to give 60 days before the sanctions were applied and the Brussels people were still in question. Is this the balance you're waiting for? You let it happen, Prime Minister. You have no courage and you are not defending the Brussels people today. As usual, you defend Flanders's theses. Frankly, Brussels voters are still waiting for your campaign promises and I think you still have a lot of work to do!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-23-54-plenair-ip159x.u41	Mr. President, Prime Minister, Leroy complains about his salary. To an indecent salary, Leroy adds the indecency of complaining! What is the amount of compensation for Dominique Leroy, the CEO of Proximus? The government had capped it at €650,000, which is still three times your salary, Prime Minister. However, in a question from the PTB-GO to Mr. From Croo, in 2015, we found that it was not 650 000 but 776,000 euros in 2014. Since then, we have gone up to 814 000 euros, which would not yet be enough when people have to live today with wages of misery that are blocked by index jumps and by the bill that Mr Peeters is still going to table today on the revision of the 1996 law. But 814 000 euros is not enough! I read your answer in the press: "In the current climate, the Prime Minister believes that the award of this bonus would certainly be badly received." In the current climate! Prime Minister, assure me! It is true that the other parties in your coalition want to disappoint these salaries, we know that. The CD&V, the Open Vld, the N-VA want it. Are you waiting for the right time to defuse them? Isn't that right now? What is your position? Secondly, do you not think that in today's discussion by the various parties on political renewal and new ethical standards, we should include the discussion on the salaries of leaders of public-sector companies? Thirdly, we know that the CEO of Proximus complains that he does not receive bonuses related to long-term results. So I looked at the results of the steering committee, the people who work under Ms. Leroy's leadership. I see a total amount of EUR 8,200,000 for remuneration, which would mean that on average, members of the Proximus Management Committee would receive a remuneration of EUR 1,170,000, whereas Leroy receives only EUR 800,000. Is that true? If so, should the remuneration of the members of the executive committee not be reduced?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-23-54-plenair-ip159x.u42	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as soon as it was set up, the government has considered that we should do everything possible to promote good governance, autonomy and independence in order to try to meet the objectives set. Under the previous legislature, political decisions were taken to cap around €290,000 in remuneration for public enterprises, with an exception for companies listed on the stock exchange – that's what you're talking about – in which the ministers responsible could accept derogations. Contrary to what you said when you mentioned the phrase that I am given in the current climate, many months ago, my opinion was actually sought, informally, on the possibility of an increase in remuneration. It was not in the current climate, but in time non-suspecto, and I indicated, in agreement with the minister responsible, that a concern for sobriety should prompt us not to increase them. I confirm this information: this government does not want to increase remuneration. Furthermore, it seems to me – and ministers have already spoken on this – that when a company is formed with total or partial public participation, transparency must be maximum. I have the impression that in the federal context, this is already very much the case. However, I am very much in favour of seeing, through the working groups that will be set up, how to increase the transparency of the remuneration of boards of directors, strategic committees or management – not just the CEO – of companies with public participation. As you can see, we make the choice of clarity on the subject. I confirm that, in time non-suspecto, questioned informally, without any formal request, I considered that the procedure was not appropriate. That is the direction we are in.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-23-54-plenair-ip159x.u43	Prime Minister, first of all, I had formulated my question by talking about the leaders of Proximus. In other words, I wanted to get a response on the compensation of the members of the steering committee, which is apparently higher than that of Dominique Leroy. So that's a problem you should be dealing with. And then, what are these bonuses related to? They are based on the results and profits of the company. This is one that brings benefits, like others – for example, Telenet – but it is because it benefits from a monopoly situation that allows it to achieve profits higher than those found in neighbouring countries such as France, where telecom prices are much lower for individuals. In my view, this problem should be addressed. We were told that liberalization would solve everything. We should then ask ourselves why prices remain so high in Belgium. You may be able to interview leading experts, for example, by asking Mr. Bracke or Mr. Dewael for free advice on this, as we know that they are dealing with this kind of issue. In any case, if there are bonuses, even if I'm rather unfavorable, they should no longer be tied to profits. Rather, let us try to lower telecom prices for consumers.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-23-54-plenair-ip159x.u44	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, over the past week we have discovered that there are fellow politicians who do not notice if there is more or less EUR 30 000 in their accounts. A lot of countrymen have to look day after day to see if there is even 30 euros left in their accounts. These are the 1.6 million Belgians who live in poverty today in this prosperous country, who worry about this every day and who are working hard to improve their position in society, with falling and standing up. The Secretary of State of those 1.6 million Belgians for the past two and a half years was called Elke Sleurs, a Secretary of State with important powers but with a very poor bilan, which was part of the government of a country where the living wage is still 250 euros below the poverty line. That was Mrs Sleurs' poverty policy, also responsible for people with disabilities, the most vulnerable in our society. If they call today to the administration of Persons with Disabilities, they will get the occupied tone and will not be included. A society is recognised as dealing with the most vulnerable. Mrs Sleurs has done nothing and far too little for those people in the last two and a half years. In this sense, the internal N-VA issues, Mr De Roover, are hopefully an opportunity to do more for people in poverty and for people with disabilities. Prime Minister, you run the team, you run the government, normally. My question to you is how you will deal with that replacement. Will that post be filled or not? Our conviction is very strong that these powers are important, but a Secretary of State for Combating Poverty who cannot and cannot fight poverty is a waste of money. Will that post be filled in? If it is completed, I think it is the right choice, but it must be completed in a serious way. What is your response today as Prime Minister?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-23-54-plenair-ip159x.u45	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, 105 000 jobs were created, the welfare envelope was converted into an IPA a few weeks ago, which are concrete results in the fight against poverty. But of course that's not enough for us. It must be a permanent challenge for this government. But not only for this government, also for the Länder, the municipalities and the OCMW. It is indeed our ambition to achieve further results in this area. Simplism is never a good way to do politics, Mr Calvo. Secondly, in a democracy there is a parliamentary majority with support for the government. On the basis of the political balance of two years ago, a ministerial team was formed with ministers and four State Secretarys. I am the prime minister in permanent consultation with one party of the team to see how the succession will be organised. Rest assured, we will communicate the information as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-23-54-plenair-ip159x.u46	Mr President, Prime Minister, your answer gives me the opportunity to reflect on this government's report on poverty. You seem to be satisfied with that and I do not understand that. Ladies and gentlemen, another 1.6 million Belgians live in poverty today, in an incredibly prosperous country. Poverty organisations such as Decade Goals have mapped out the impact of this government policy and government policy across the board. Your measures have made the lives of people in poverty more difficult for 50 euros a month. That's the povertybilan of your government. Mrs. Smeyers, you're shaking your head. If you get the chance, I hope you are convinced of that problem. I hope you have seen what we have experienced with Mrs Sleurs, namely that the allowance for people with disabilities, the most vulnerable in our society, for months...
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-23-54-plenair-ip159x.u47	Mr Calvo has the floor. Mr Cheron, you too must let Mr Calvo speak.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-23-54-plenair-ip159x.u48	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of the N-VA, for months Mrs Sleurs has failed to bring the allowance for people with disabilities to the level of living wage. Those are the hard facts. That is the N-VA poverty policy that is pushing more people towards poverty. Ladies and gentlemen, if Mrs Sleurs' successor will do better, we will be the first to applaud. Mr De Roover, either you designate a Secretary of State who really can and can fight poverty, or that post is better abolished. I look forward to the sequel.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-23-54-plenair-ip159x.u49	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I think it is 20 years since the Prime Minister, Mr Dehaene, called on me and a number of other people to say that there was a great tragedy in Vilvoorde. We are 20 years ahead, and that tragedy has taken place effectively. At that time a shock wave of indignation went through the country because of the brutality with which workers, who were still on the band, heard on the radio that they were being fired. It was also the beginning of a months of social conflict. In retrospect, it was also, above all, an historic social action which resulted in an ambitious social agreement. Moreover, this agreement is still being copied very much because of the re-employment elements. Moreover, this resulted in the Renault Act and also a European directive. I would like to take advantage of this sad birthday to point out that it is more than necessary for the Ranault Act to be thoroughly reviewed. From the outset, the law was a mistake, which also caused a great deal of commotion at the time, in particular that the Renault procedure, the social dialogue and the social agreement to follow never automatically concerns subcontractors or subcontractors. That is exactly what we need to correct today, if only because you were also confronted with it in the files of Caterpillar, ING and Ford Genk, among others. A second element relates to the financial sector, where people work a lot with Franchising and bogus self-employed. This should also be included in the procedure. Minister, I know that this is being done with the social partners. My main aim is that, because of the changing economic reality, we should focus on the need for subcontractors and their employees, and suppliers, to be involved in the Renault procedure in a structural way.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-23-54-plenair-ip159x.u50	Deputy Prime Minister, on 27 February 1997 at about 7 a.m., the workers of Renault Vilvoorde see that the Megan and Clio models are evacuated in abnormal quantities from the storage car park at the Renault plant in Vilvoorde. A few hours later, the press announced the definitive closure of the site with a collective dismissal of 3,000 people. This announcement, of unheard of violence, shocked and indignant. She caused a desire to change things. A few months later, the political power that had taken on its responsibilities, made the Renault law that we know pass. My colleague Bonte just told you about it. The aim was to protect workers by preventing and limiting collective redundancies. It was a law of great modernity at the time. We will be, on Monday, on the anniversary date of this law, 20 years later. And what do we see? Social violence is becoming more and more severe. The workers in Caterpillar, ING, C&A, Blokker, AXA, P&V and many others came to talk about the hardness of the ads that are made. A short-term policy is being pursued, targeting only dividends to satisfy the ever-increasing appetite of greedy shareholders. Not a single month goes by without the announcement of real social dramas. Where did all this lead us? We know, we have to act. One thing: your Prime Minister's statement that "it was necessary to fight Caterpillar to ensure that workers' rights were respected, to support workers and their families". Six months later, where are we? You'll excuse me, but not much has been done! The workers in Caterpillar have just asked you to lower the age of pre-pension below 55: refusal on your part! They have asked you to take measures concerning the dismissal of stock exchanges: refusal! The introduction of a right of information and alert for workers: refusal! What did you do? You have made five proposals to the social partners. I welcome the initiative. But in view of the demands of the workers and the population, these proposals are incomplete and unambitious. The CSC, Deputy Prime Minister, told you, "The mountain will only give birth to a mouse." What are you doing to respond to the legitimate demands and demands of the world of work?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-23-54-plenair-ip159x.u51	Mr President, Mr Bonte and Mr Massin, it is true that tomorrow in Vilvoorde there will be the commemoration of the shock that went through the whole of Belgium twenty years ago, as a result of the closure of the Renault plant in Vilvoorde. Thousands of people then lost their jobs, without announcement, without preparation. This was an important social event in our country, which led to the Renault Act. I believe that this Renault Act has proved its added value over the years. Both from the FOD WASO, the administration and from the trade unions, the Renault Act has been dealt with in many other cases. To date, unfortunately, we have seen many cases in which the Renault Act is applied. As a result of, among other things, the Caterpillar dossier, there was indeed a demand in this hemisphere for an improvement and modernisation of the Renault Act. I sent a letter to the Group of Ten asking them to make proposals to modernize the Renault law. I have put forward five points, one of which was mentioned by Mr Bonte. I'd like to take a quick look at them. First, the obligation to inform Parliament and the authorities in case of closure. Secondly, making compulsory the preparation of an impact analysis of the closure for subcontractors and the formulation of proposals to address the impact of the closure on subcontractors. Thirdly, the strengthening of the role of social conciliator. This, as planned, in the proactive approach. Fourthly, the obligation to draw up a social plan. Finally, provision is made for the legal guarantee that such a social plan applies to all employees employed at the time of the closure notice. I asked them to give an opinion as soon as possible on these five points. The social partners are working on the dossier. They promised to give me an opinion as soon as possible. I have already asked my administration to draw up a proposal for a draft law in order to be able to act very quickly. I would like to add the following. The positive thing about restructuring is perhaps that, if we look at the economic conditions over a longer period, we can see that restructuring occurs at the end of a very difficult period and announces the start of a revival of the economy. It is therefore very important that we listen to these 20 years. It is also very important that the Renault Act be amended. Mr Massin, on the Caterpillar file, I wrote to the Minister-President of Wallonia. I offered him my services and those of my administration to help the workers. You have also raised some points that are currently being discussed by the social partners. It is there that we always try to find solutions, of course within the current legal framework.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-23-54-plenair-ip159x.u52	Thank you, Minister, for your reply, to which I would like to respond briefly. I have indeed read the five proposals you have launched. My plea today is to look at the essence of the Renault Act. Renault was a profitable company in Belgium. It was the ambition of the Renault Act to enforce respectful treatment, to always offer the opportunity to formulate alternatives to dismissal, and to focus on re-employment of workers. One of the proposals to which you referred, and which I also mentioned, concerns the situation of subcontractors and subcontractors. Mr. Secretary, this is not about an impact analysis. We know him. We also knew them at Caterpillar and at Ford Genk. The point is that we need to broaden the law, so that suppliers who work 100% in subcontracting a company are also caught up in the ambitions of the law for re-employment following a social agreement. I do believe, Minister, that this is a very painful history. We will see that today and we will see that tomorrow. This history causes trauma injuries in many families. Let us respect and examine the struggle they have fought for these three principles, on the occasion of the adjustments we have to make to the Renault Act, whether we should take steps in the direction I have just indicated.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-23-54-plenair-ip159x.u53	Mr President, Mr Deputy Prime Minister, obviously you did not listen to the trade union organisations when they came to Parliament. They told you that the Renault law has a lot of weaknesses and that today we are faced with redundancies simply because we want dividends. They told you that you had to react to that. The five proposals you are making do not go in that direction. We're in a dialogue of the deaf. You're not listening! You don't hear! We almost feel like we're in a government of autistics. Caterpillar, ING have clearly shown that the proposals are insufficient. There is no possibility of reclassification. We're closing, don't go to the line! It's a pure and simple closure. You've been told; you have to stop layoffs, but you don't want to hear it. It is up to you to give this answer to the world of work. But, at least have the courage to do it!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-23-54-plenair-ip159x.u54	Mr President, Deputy Prime Minister, saying that employment is a concern of this government is an understatement. The majority agreement provides for more and more satisfactory measures. Nevertheless, a 2016 report by Unia indicates an unprecedented and significant increase in discrimination, mainly in the employment sector. Older workers are increasingly victims of such discrimination, with an increase of 126% over 2015. This signal should not be taken lightly, in the context of an ageing population and longer careers. These figures are not brilliant, although the employment rate for the 55-64 age group is slightly increasing. However, compared to the European average, Belgium is still stagnating, with a differential of ten points. Forty-seven years would constitute the critical age at which a worker would be subject to discrimination. There are many reasons for this: the older worker would be more expensive, would be difficult to dismiss, often on leave, slower, less efficient. The question is not whether these allegations are correct or not, but how employers will be able to reform their judgment. A group of researchers from UCL and the University of Ghent find that the measures taken for this population group are obsolete and need to be modified. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, do you share this finding? What measures will you take to implement a policy to combat such discrimination? For the MR, these discriminations must stop. Does the Government Agreement provide for the evaluation of the 2007 Discrimination Act? Finally, do the social partners reflect on the situation of older workers and pay scales?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-23-54-plenair-ip159x.u55	Thank you, Mrs. de Coster-Bauchau. I take this opportunity to congratulate you on your birthday. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-23-54-plenair-ip159x.u56	Mrs de Coster-Bauchau, congratulations too! You are right: older jobseekers face more difficulties in their search for a job today. The chance of finding a job depends not only on the companies but on all of us. It would not be right to limit the debate to the supplementary business unemployment scheme (CDR); we must broaden it and find a solution, as you mentioned, following various studies carried out by the universities. I have also read the two studies you mentioned and I have already started the debate with the social partners to find fair and lasting solutions. I am also convinced that it is not only at the federal level but also at the regional level that we must find solutions to enable older workers to return to employment. After discussion with the social partners and an in-depth study of all the information, the government will be able to propose appropriate measures to improve the situation of older people. This is the purpose of all the actions I have already undertaken.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-23-54-plenair-ip159x.u57	Mr President, I thank the Minister for his answer. We know the positive effect on target audiences, young or older, when the employment rate improves. Like you, I note that federal jurisdiction is also linked to those of regional governments. It would be interesting to take coordinated action so that we can quickly put in place new measures to combat these discriminations.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-23-54-plenair-ip159x.u58	Minister, next Saturday the new Belgian cycling season will finally start. I hope that we will find cycling together the most beautiful sport, but it is also a dangerous sport. That's not new. We have been aware of this for a long time. I am thinking of the sporting highlights of 1967 with Merckx, who became world champion, with Sercu, who broke the world record, and with Ferdinand Bracke, who broke the world record, but also the unfortunate death of Simpson on the Mont Ventoux. That's what stuck with us. 1967 was therefore the year in which the KB on a better organisation of the cycling races and the safety of the riders saw the light of day. Mr Minister, safety during cycling races, also for the bystanders, is still on the agenda and even burningly topical. Last year was also a very successful year, including Greg Van Avermaet, Jolien D'hoore and Lotte Kopecky. Unfortunately, we also had to deal with the loss of Antoine Demoitié and for Stig Broeckx today it's still a bitch. Mr Secretary of State, security is and remains an important item. However, we note that the KB was overtaken fifty years later by the broom truck of the cycling races. In the provisions of the Royal Decree, the medical aspect is still covered by an auxiliary box and a carrier. It is not clear who should occupy which intersections. There are no mobile signalers in the KB. Nor do we know which articles of the Road Code should be excluded. Road infrastructure has changed. It is therefore urgent, Minister, to adapt the KB. Will you bring the KB into line with the needs on the ground? When can we finally expect that?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-23-54-plenair-ip159x.u59	Mrs Van Cauter, I think Michel Wuyts has a serious competitor to you, as far as cycling cyclopedic knowledge is concerned. I congratulate you on that. All madness on a stick, the problem mentioned is serious. You're right, the KB dates back to 1967. In 1983 it was changed again and in 2008 a new KB was started. For some reason, that's staying in the drawer. In July 2016, the Belgian Wielerbond came to see me asking me to create a new KB. That is what we started with. I have instructed the Crisis Centre, in consultation with the federal police, with the local police, with the organizers, with the Wielerbond and with the FPS Mobility, to provide me with a preliminary draft by March of this year at the latest. We are on schedule: next month there will be a preliminary draft. I will have to submit it to the Regions and to the Council of State for advice, and then we will have a new text. What's in there now? There are many areas where modernisation is taking place. I would like to draw your attention to two innovations. First and foremost, the signalers will also be able to stop traffic for the public caravan and for the publicity caravan. Today that only applies to the cyclists as such. As far as the role of the signalers is concerned, the mayor will be able to determine how many police he has to deploy, taking into account the signalers. So it is no longer happening the other way around, as is the case today. Everything is on course: we will get the text in March and we will submit it to the bodies mentioned, and then we will announce it. In the meantime, of course, the old regulation applies; we are not going to run out of regulation. Like you, I hope that we will have a very interesting, very interesting, but especially safe cycling season.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-23-54-plenair-ip159x.u60	Minister, I am glad that you are not only thinking about the course, but also about the safety of the cyclists. That is urgently needed. You are talking about the end of March and perhaps you will still make it to the Tour of Flanders as a flandrien. In any case, we are in full expectation. The furthest you will come, of course, by working with the people on the ground. I hope that next season the course will not only be sporty, but also safe.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-23-54-plenair-ip159x.u61	Minister, this week we were confronted with shocking images from Kasai, the Kananga region in Congo, where Congolese soldiers murdered unarmed civilians in cold blood. This is another incident in a row in Congo. Kabila is constantly looking for a postponement of the elections. Kabila smothers any resistance in blood. Kabila actually organises the violence rather than the elections in Congo. We must ask ourselves whether crimes in uniform in Congo can go unpunished. Mr. Secretary, the jug's only gonna get in the water until it bursts. I therefore have a few questions for you. France and the United States have called for an international investigation into what happened there. Initially, the Congolese Government dismissed the entire incident as a fake, it did not happen. Today we read in The New York Times that they are changing their course abruptly. They're gonna be part of the investigation anyway. Mr Minister, would you like to support this investigation and call for it so that the substance of the case can be exposed? The coalition agreement states, and I quote, that we will be critically evaluating whether cooperation with Congo should be maintained on a 3D approach, including in the military field. Indeed, after what has happened, we must also ask critical questions about this. Minister, we must ask ourselves whether or not we are staying on the ground. Both one and the other of course has advantages and disadvantages. I would, however, like to hear that consideration from you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-23-54-plenair-ip159x.u62	Mr President, Minister, I would also like to refer to the shocking video that has appeared this week in which civilians, women and children are innocently slaughtered. In the meantime, the images have led to both the United Nations, the United States and France calling Congo into question. The Congolese Minister of Information has meanwhile dismissed the images as fake, but local NGOs and human rights organisations disagree. The result is again a well-known game on the hood of the poor Congolese people, which suffers very much from this. Minister, an army should protect its citizens and not slaughter them. This is actually a gross violation of human rights and I think that Belgium should also ask for an investigation, especially since the Belgian Defence Department in that region, in Kananga, supervised the Congolese military school and the command there. Meanwhile, there is also the non-performance of the Silvester chord. There is a total political impasse. A prime minister should have been appointed by now. In the meantime, we know that Félix Tshisekedi is also a candidate. Since last week, we also know that the Congolese Government says that there are not enough resources to organise the elections in Congo. It is all worrying, Minister. I therefore have a few questions. How do you estimate the security situation in Congo today and specifically in Kasai? Will you also ask for an independent investigation? How do you estimate the involvement of the Congolese military school today, to which the Belgian Defence has given support? Will the project be evaluated and updated? Finally, what is Belgium's attitude to the political impasse today in Congo, with the failure to implement the very strong agreement that was concluded on 31 December last year? What pressure do you exert today on the Congolese authorities? Will you ask within the European Union to apply targeted sanctions?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-23-54-plenair-ip159x.u63	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the situation in Kasai has been very worrying for a few weeks. The UN High Commissioner for Human Rights spoke on 20 February about several credible allegations of mass human rights violations in the provinces of Kasai, Kasai-Central, East Kasai and Lomami. This is accompanied by a sharp deterioration in the security situation and the military targeting of civilians, based solely on their so-called affiliation with the local militia. According to the UN Human Rights Office in the DRC, at least 280 victims would have been killed by now. A few days ago, a shocking video appeared showing how in a village in Kasaiuddin military shoots unarmed women and men without warning. In a series of statements by the Congolese government, the accusations were indeed first minimized and there was talk of an assembly, a fake. Finally, yesterday, following a number of international statements, it was announced that an investigation had been launched. We hope that this will not remain an empty promise. Belgium is very concerned not only by the rapidly deteriorating security situation in Kasai, but also by these elsewhere in the country, namely in the east in Tanganyika and in Bas-Congo. Unfortunately, we are finding a trend in which local conflicts are accompanied by the contestation of central authority and lead to excessive violence by the security services. I ask, along with other fellow Members of this House, that an independent international investigation be carried out quickly. Mr President, I still have some elements of response regarding the responsibilities within the security services. Those responsible must be punished. I say that since April, it was also the case after the September demonstration last year. Measures must be taken to protect the population. First of all, I asked our embassy in Kinshasa to bring this up urgently. Our agent has today carried out a démarche to the Minister of Human Rights to express our concern about this. Secondly, I also asked that the situation in the DRC be addressed at the next European Union Foreign Affairs Council on 6 March, which will also address the issue of individual sanctions. Mrs Van Hoof, I will also press on with the implementation of the agreement of 31 December because there is an urgent need for a legitimate government to respond to the insecurity, lack of governance and the serious chronic problems facing the country. I have been in contact not only with my Foreign Minister but also with the opposition and the CENCO. Thirdly and finally, I also call for the revision of the MONUSCO mandate next month to be used to put forward two priorities: firstly, better protection of the population and vulnerable individuals and secondly, support for the electoral process. My last element is more about Defense. Since 2015, the cooperation between Defence and the Academy of Kananga has been limited to temporary assignments and there is no permanent Belgian presence. At present, there is nothing to indicate that elements from the Kananga Military Academy have been involved in the serious incidents. We will look into this and, of course, thoroughly analyse the results of the investigation together with the Defense Department. We will first monitor the correct implementation of the agreements at the end of 2015. However, we will also identify individual responsible persons and perhaps, if necessary, introduce new sanctions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-23-54-plenair-ip159x.u64	Mr President, Minister, it is indeed strange that the Congolese Government has turned its backs on the investigation and is now suddenly getting involved in the investigation. That certainly raises questions. I am also pleased that you confirm that the Belgian Defence and the training of the soldiers involved in the incident have nothing to do with the events. Minister, it is also very good that you are not only speaking through the embassy in Congo, but that you are also using that Belgian voice at European level. We may not mean much in terms of size, but our voice is being heard symbolically. That is why it is quite right that you should do the same. However, we must ask questions for the longer term, as in Burundi, where we trained the police and at some point decided not to do so anymore. In Congo, too, we must ask ourselves whether or not we will be present on the ground in the longer term. I look forward to your next steps.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-23-54-plenair-ip159x.u65	Minister, I am very pleased with your answer. We must indeed look for the truth and every stone in Kasai must be turned around to see who is responsible for this. Belgium has a specific relationship with Congo. This means that we take a leading position with our diplomacy, including with regard to the international community. We must continue to exert pressure on the Congolese regime for the protection of its citizens and for the implementation of the good agreement reached in December. It is a good thing that you continue to sue this case within the European Union and will plead for targeted sanctions. All this is in the interest of the Congolese citizen, who is suffering greatly from it.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-23-54-plenair-ip159x.u66	Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the lack of the means of justice is once again pointed out by the Brussels Court of Appeal, which, in the absence of judges, has had to postpone a whole series of cases which had already been decided. This court is usually composed of three effective magistrates. Unfortunately, there have been only two of them since September 2016. To fill this shortage of staff, the first president even had to appoint lawyers. This lack of resources has been repeatedly denounced by all actors in the justice system: lawyers, magistrates and, most recently, the Supreme Council of Justice, which, in a report, challenges the State's ability to deal with and prosecute cases of economic and financial crime. The problem is that justice will no longer be done; files will be closed for exceeding the reasonable time or even prescribed; the prosecution of certain offences will be discontinued. The result will also be a lack of financial returns, and above all the impunity of financial offenders, which will confirm a two-tiered justice, low cost, truly unworthy of our democracy. Today we are talking about the financial section of the Brussels Court of Appeal, but his case is not isolated. Despite the magistrates' strike, you still do not respect the law by not filling the framework. Mr Minister, in your policy note, you announced additional resources for judges specializing in the fight against terrorism, but this cannot happen at the expense of the fight against financial crime. Are you going to appoint enough magistrates to fill the framework of the Brussels Court of Appeal, which is necessary for it to fulfil its tasks? What initiatives do you intend to take to address serious deficiencies in the management of fraud and financial crime cases? Do you intend to allocate the necessary means to combat tax fraud and money laundering?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-23-54-plenair-ip159x.u67	Mr President, Mrs Özen, I did not expect the question on the Brussels Court of Appeal. As far as I know, the first president has delegated magistrates from the first instance to the appeal to fill the gaps that you are reporting. There are regular vacancies for judges at the Brussels Court of Appeal, but the first president used his delegation power from the first instance. With regard to the tax substitutes framework, we raised it to 30 in 2016 and a first publication of vacant places took place in July. Sixteen places have already been published, allowing for first appointments in January 2017. Since there have not been enough candidates for some places, last week I republished three places for Liège, Mons and Brussels. Last Friday, the government approved a royal decree on the provision of 15 additional tax officials to the judicial authorities. Indeed, Justice and Finance are working closely together in a task force to strengthen the administrative and judicial fight against tax fraud within the framework of the so-called "una via". A next meeting is scheduled for 9 March. In order to improve the exchange of information in fraud cases, the programme law extended access to the central point of contact of the National Bank. The Anti-Money Laundering Unit, the Public Prosecutor's Office, the head office and notaries now have access to it. Finally, the provision of staff credits for the Judicial Order has been a priority of my budgetary policy since I took office. You will not believe me, but I would point out that we have budgeted a number of 2,487 judges for 2017; in 2014, there were 2,432 judges. As a result, there has been a significant increase over 2014.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-23-54-plenair-ip159x.u68	Minister, I am surprised that you are surprised by my question! You are talking about the delegation of the first president of the magistrates from the first instance to the Court of Appeal. But who performs the functions of the first instance then? A structural problem must be addressed. What amazes me is when your government pays for legal aid, for example, that is to say, it restricts access to justice for the poorest, the most disadvantaged, but does not remove the means to prosecute the big financial offenders. And now I think there's really a way to get money, too. I hear you say that the framework has been increased for 2017 but currently the framework is not up to 20%. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-23-54-plenair-ip159x.u69	Minister of Justice, you have discreetly – in stoemelings, as they say in good Brussels – abandoned one of the eighteen measures that had been announced in the aftermath of the Paris attacks, without too much publicity. That said, you did the right thing. From the outset, we told you that this measure suffered from problems of legality, opportunity and efficiency. The downside is that fifteen months have passed. Today we have three groups of people who can represent a terrorist threat in Belgium. These are, first of all, those who come back from the ground. We know that about 250 FTF (foreign terror fighters) are currently in Syria. In any case, these are the latest figures that the State Security has given us. These individuals now want to come back to save their skin. Mr Raes informed us a few days ago that a memorandum of understanding was being signed. I do not know whether it has been done and whether the security services are in a position to put in place an effective mechanism for the people who come back here, in order to prevent them from being a threat to society. We proposed the establishment of a systematic return control centre, with threat assessment, psychosocial and police follow-up. I do not know what initiatives your government is taking in this regard. The second group consists of persons who have been released from prison and convicted of terrorism. We were told how much they could constitute a threat. The third is radicalised people, who could become terrorized homegrowers. We know that the CSILs have been installed. However, this mechanism is used to track them discreetly. It is, of course, becoming more and more effective, but it is not a device that actually allows them to be controlled. So, Minister, what initiatives are you proposing to reassure us about these three groups?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-23-54-plenair-ip159x.u70	Mr President, Mr Dallemagne, allow me to answer your questions in reverse order. As far as radicalised persons are concerned, their surveillance is carried out in particular through the intelligence services. I refer, for example, to the ongoing work on the methods of gathering information by the State Security and Military Intelligence, the modernization of which is currently being discussed in the Committee on Justice. Judicial intervention becomes only possible when one moves from radicalism to involvement in criminal offences, particularly in connection with terrorism. In this regard, the Criminal Code has been expanded over the past two years by three "terrorist" laws on incitement to terrorism, recruitment, financing, travel and preparatory acts. The extension of criminality also extends the possibility of pre-trial detention or imprisonment. And which says extension of the possibilities of imprisonment or pre-trial detention means extension of the use of electronic bracelet, even before involvement in an attack or departure in Syria, for example. All persons who are currently in or returning to Syria in a jihadist setting are not only subject to criminal investigation but are reported for arrest. This means that they will, as a first step, be stopped when the return is detected. Pre-trial detention remains and must remain a decision of the investigating judge based on the possible situation, but I would point out that the "Terror 3" Act, adopted in July 2016, facilitates the use of pre-trial detention in terrorist cases. The legislative reforms concerning intelligence and criminal procedure have therefore been well implemented. On a more operational level, I would point out that many measures have been taken, including the institutionalisation of local task forces, the FTF data bank or the increase in the budget for the services concerned. Is the system 100% waterproof? No. No national system will ever be, and we still need to improve the situation. For example, the government is working hard on all information flows and additional measures to be taken are updated by the commission of inquiry. Also know that in the National Security Council, including last Tuesday, we discussed widely, with all the departments, the fate of the various returns, which we do every month, or even twice a month. I hope I answered you, Mr. Dallemagne.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-23-54-plenair-ip159x.u71	Minister, thank you for your answer. Indeed, the government did not stand up. When one sees that such a provision is abandoned after 15 months and that others have not been implemented, a review of the 30 measures announced by the government would be useful to verify those that have been fully implemented, those that are timely, those that are less, and those that have not been implemented. I am thinking of certain measures aimed at the closure of certain unlicensed places of worship that could pose a threat to public safety. It's a measure I've been waiting for for many months. It was announced in November 2015. It is time to check which measures can still be expected and which must be definitively abandoned. I also recall the resource and resource measures that are expected in several departments. I will continue to pay attention to this matter, but ask you to come back to Parliament to take stock of all the anti-terrorism measures.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-23-54-plenair-ip159x.u72	Mr President, Minister, the MR has fought to change attitudes and to give our independents a more attractive social and fiscal status. Over the past two years, this government has encouraged self-employed people to hire their first employees, to reduce and reform social contributions, to enhance craftsmanship, to improve social status and to help actors and the sector in difficulty. Three key indicators, relayed by the press this morning, show that the measures taken by this majority are beginning to bear fruit. I'm glad. At the end of the third quarter of 2016, there were 1,050,402 independents, a record figure. The increase is particularly significant among the self-employed as a principal, with a 2.66 per cent jump in one and a half years. Another good news is that the reduction in contributions is accompanied by an excellent cash-flow rate. Finally, the number of self-employed persons in difficulty, having requested exemption from contributions, has decreased by 50% in three years. However, some stakeholders wonder whether the above measures benefit SMEs and self-employed individuals working alone, such as some small traders or professionals. What do you learn at this stage from recent indicators of the number of self-employed, the rate of receipt of social contributions from self-employed persons and the number of self-employed persons who have applied for exemption from contributions? Have government measures also targeted self-employed individuals working alone? Do you have any figures in this regard? Thank you for the answers you will give me.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-23-54-plenair-ip159x.u73	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to give you some clarification on the development of the situation of the self-employed. Over the past few months, we have seen an increase in self-employment, including self-employment carried out primarily. Instead, please, ladies and gentlemen, and I would ask for your attention for a moment. Over the last few months, every month, there are 1,050 self-employed in our country. I'm talking about jobs in my main capacity. For the self-employed, this is four times more than in 2013, for example. In the case of self-employed persons on a supplementary basis, there were 10 000 additional self-employed persons in the course of two years. And, as you pointed out, the amount of the social contributions of the self-employed exceeds the budget forecast by EUR 150 million in 2016. The figure is obviously extremely important, especially since the rate of collection has reached a very large amount and a very large percentage since almost 99.9% of the enrolment is actually cashed. I see it in particular - you have alluded to a few things - firstly, the result of the work of SMEs and self-employed people and of all those who are involved in it. I really want to congratulate them here. Secondly, I believe that we have been able to create both the favourable context and very precise support measures which, of course, also benefit self-employed persons who are non-employers or are active in a company. Reductions in personal social contributions of 1.5% over three years are evident. The doubling of investment deductions, for example, in general, the targeted deductions of 13.5% for digital investment or targeted investments are equally so. And then, there are measures that reinforce, for example, the right to access, the possibility of helping a helping spouse, deductions via the tax shelter for young businesses, all of which must appeal to others. As we know, numbers always speak better than words. I think that this successful meeting of the independents with our society deserves us to make - and I will do so in the short term - new proposals. They relate to the second pillar of self-employed pension, to the further improvement of their status or, of course, to provisions such as the test clause for those who want to hire their first worker. With this, I think I can give you an appointment in a year to share new figures that I hope will allow us to reach new heights.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-23-54-plenair-ip159x.u74	Minister, I really wanted to thank you for your answer. It is clear that the development of self-employment is important: 1 050 more self-employed each month, 10 000 more complementary self-employed in two years, that is not nothing. Is everything perfect? No, of course, but these encouraging results show that we are on the right track. Our measures must continue to benefit self-employed workers and SMEs. At any rate, our group will continue to support your efforts. The SME sector, to which you and we are very attentive, is the one that creates employment. New measures are coming, as you said. Rendez-vous is taken in a year to take stock.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-23-54-plenair-ip159x.u75	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, yesterday the world stood still in Saint-Andries, part of Bruges. A six-year-old child died there on a zebra path. When I read the reactions in the newspapers and on the social media today, I notice that heavy traffic in our villages is a theme that affects everyone. Road safety is extremely important for everyone, for all groups in this hemisphere and in other parliamentary hemispheres and also in the municipal sphere. On the federal level, we have put forward proposals in the Committee on Infrastructure in the context of a hit-and-run. As far as tonnage limits are concerned, I have tabled a proposal and I have once again asked colleagues to impose stricter penalties. We've already done a part. At Flemish level, one examines the consequences of a mileage tax on local and municipal roads and invests in safe cycle paths. At local level, there are initiatives in all municipalities, of whatever political orientation. For example, there are discussions about window times, so that trucks no longer drive through the village centers in the morning and in the evening when the school starts or ends. Minister, I believe that there is a political consensus at every level and both by majority and opposition that needs to be addressed. I have two brief questions. Firstly, on the federal level, do you agree with me that, for example, we should pay more heavily for the infringement of a tonnage restriction? Secondly, do you agree to raise the issue of lorries in the villages at a forthcoming Inter-Ministerial Conference with your colleagues and to put it higher on the political agenda so that we do not have to ask this question in the near future?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-23-54-plenair-ip159x.u76	Ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to mention the tragic death of the little boy yesterday in Bruges. Every victim on our roads is one too many. My thoughts are with the family and the school community. The Road Code already allows road managers to place road signs that prohibit certain vehicles, such as lorries, access to certain zones. For example, signs C21 and C23 may prohibit access to certain roads. It is therefore the road managers who decide on this. The lack of respect for a sign C21 has also been punished more severely since last year. This violation is now placed in the third degree instead of the first degree. Finally, I would like to point out that the Road Code and its sanctions are subject to continuous monitoring. Incidents on our roads, especially those as bad as yesterday, are also taken into account. In this context, I will propose that the working group responsible for the revision of the Road Code, which includes federal and regional representatives, should consider this matter. This item may also be placed on the agenda of the next ECMM meeting.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-23-54-plenair-ip159x.u77	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I think I can emphasise that you are prepared to do something about this. You referred to the sign C21. In this Chamber, the infringement was brought from first to third category. In Flanders the sign C23 is mainly used. I will ask this House to take the infringement from first to third category for this too.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-23-54-plenair-ip159x.u78	End of oral questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-23-54-plenair-ip159x.u79	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteurs were Mr Delizée, Mr Clarinval and Mr Massin.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-23-54-plenair-ip159x.u80	Mr President, at the beginning of the sitting we referred to this reform of the financing of social security. As you know, amendments have been tabled. Earlier, we have already referred to our request to send these amendments to the Council of State for its opinion. This request is supported by the various opposition groups. I wanted to ask you a specific question about the procedure. Very often, noting that we have fifty to ask, you seek the opinion of the Council of State. We agree that in this case the opinion requested is not an urgent opinion. Indeed, the Council of State considers the substance of the case differently depending on whether the request is urgent or not. This is an extremely important area. This is the financing of our social security. The government's project will weaken the entire building we have patiently built to support our entire population, protect it from occupational risks, in the event of illness or after retirement age. The majority, with this project, are in the process of completely weakening the building by providing unbearable conditions for balance, the aim of which is precisely that social security should not be in deficit. All the actors, all the trade union organisations, the mutualist organisations, several professors came to say that this project called into question the social model of our society. It is clear that, for us, this is an essential issue. The amendments we have tabled are not purely formal. They're approaching the bottom. We hope that the Council of State will be able to take the necessary time to consider the substance of these amendments. That is why it is important that you can shed some light on this!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-23-54-plenair-ip159x.u81	I understand you, Mrs. Onkelinx. This project was urgently needed. The government is asking for the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-23-54-plenair-ip159x.u82	Mr President, I would nevertheless like to call for urgency for the opinion of the Council of State on the additional opposition amendments. The urgency of the draft was prompted by the fact that the 2017 budget was submitted on the basis of the draft and also by the need to ensure continuity of social security funding. There have been hours of debates before the debate today, two days before the first reading, two long days, I might add, and a full day committee meeting before the second reading. In between, hearings were held at the request of the opposition. The agreement that has been made and which has been repeatedly repeated by the members of the committee was that there should be sufficient time for debate, but that there should be no delay manoeuvres. One hundred and twenty-nine amendments were discussed in committee, some of them even at second reading. For me today, therefore, it is clearly a delay in implementing an important draft law on the financing of social security. Mrs Onkelinx, as a former Minister for Social Affairs, you should be ashamed of yourself, because with your filibuster you want to delay an important matter for all the citizens of our country. We now know how socialists deal with social security: listen to my words and look at my actions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-23-54-plenair-ip159x.u83	Madam Secretary, I deeply regret your last statement. After the Second World War, all parties sat down together to create social security with the intention of giving everyone in our country security of existence and a decent life. I am particularly sorry that you are dismissing this as party politics. We have made our views very clear in committee. We've heard experts. I might as well say that you didn't listen very much to that. There are many experts and organisations that warn us about social security and about the future. We are faced with an ageing population. We stand for more health care, which must remain affordable. This means that we need to think about the architecture of social security. What is now for discussion is completely ignored. That's what even Danny Pieters from the N-VA says. I agree with Mrs Onkelinx's question. We have a number of amendments here, which are very fundamental and of which we are really awake. We urge the Council of State to deliver an opinion on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-23-54-plenair-ip159x.u84	I understand you're not asking for emergency advice.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-23-54-plenair-ip159x.u85	Madam Minister, you are not soon embarrassed! Seriously, you're the one who's planning the de-financing of the security, you're the one who's putting it in the red, trying to turn it into an adjustment variable, and you're going to say that it's the left who's responsible? You're not ashamed, are you? A substantive debate is taking place today. We had it for two days. The amendments that we are going to table are serious, because we question the quality of the work that the minister is doing. In particular, the Council of State must be able to carry out an analysis. We have therefore tabled two amendments to see whether your'return effect', as you call it, produced by the tax shift will guarantee the financing of the security. That's easy to say, because we have no guarantee of it. There is nothing to tell us that your gift policy is going to bring back money. The tax shift is four billion less for the security. Then you will tell the social partners: "It is your fault, it is you who must make the adjustment variable." You have to be a little serious, minister! A lot of citizens' and trade union organizations that now manage social security are making it clear that what is being undertaken is to establish a total political power over this instrument that was built by the world of work after the Second World War. This deserves an in-depth debate, not a hastily discussion. So it's not up to the government to decide whether the Council of State should mess with its work. We, as members of an opposition party, have the right to introduce good amendments and to submit them to the Council of State for an in-depth debate on a subject which concerns all Belgians. Moreover, Madam Minister, you are very well placed to know how much of the population is in total disagreement with your measures. I think you feel it very well. It's not just in the polls, it's also in the field. People do not understand that they have to pay more and more for medicines while, on the other hand, more and more money is being made in Belgium. So, minister, please respect the opposition, respect our work and respect the advice of the Council of State!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-23-54-plenair-ip159x.u86	Mr President, there are two debates. One has just been opened by the Minister of Health, who suddenly attacks the way I and my predecessors – as well as my successors – on the left managed the security. But I'm very proud of it! Belgian social security is seen as a model throughout the world, which we have patiently built – and not alone. Each time, we have concluded agreements in successive governments, which have accepted our argument to consolidate social security that provides protection to the entire population and without which the already high poverty rate would reach more than 40 per cent. I am also very proud of the fact that we have built a shield against economic crises. Had we not had social security, the latest economic crises would have taken our country into an unprecedented spiral of impoverishment and impoverishment. Minister of Health, you are weak in the Council of Ministers, you accept everything from your partners. You tell us that we will no longer be affected by social security and, after a little trick in the government, you accept 900 million savings in health care! To tell us that it is the left who manages social security in a light way, is to be largely captivated! As far as I am concerned, I am extremely pleased with the way in which the left has built this model and I regret the very irresponsible way in which you manage the social security entrusted to you. Mr President, I was not asking about this, I was asking about the amendments. Pursuant to Rule 98 of the Rules of Procedure, I request that these amendments be submitted to the Council of State. As far as I know, there is no provision in the Rules for them to be accompanied by an emergency request. They are sent to the Council of State, barbar! I ask you to explain to us that this is what will be applied, nothing more. I'm waiting for your answer before I can reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-23-54-plenair-ip159x.u87	Mr President, I would like to return to the reasonableness of the debate. I regret what is happening today. By a majority and opposition, at the start of the work in committee, we agreed on the treatment of three draft laws, namely the financing of social security, on workable work and on the 1996 law. The agreement was that these draft laws should be dealt with in an orderly and normal manner, from committee to plenary, and that they should be voted on within a reasonable time. We do not agree on all the principles set out in these three draft laws, but we all have an interest in ensuring that we have an early conclusion and that these three draft laws are voted on, because they are crucial for the socio-economic balance, and in this case for the financing of social security. We have made clear agreements with regard to the normal treatment of these documents, and I am very sorry that they are not respected by colleagues from the opposition, who want to put matters back on the line again today. It's no good to anyone. The tragedy that you are making about the financing of social security has been wiped out for hours at the two committee meetings. For weeks, you have been constantly claiming that we are undermining the funding of social security and going to an Anglo-Saxon model, but you have not yet been able to make up your claims in any way. In fact, during our hours of discussions, it appeared that we have worked out a final financing of social security, something you have left behind, Mrs Onkelinx. Now an annual deficit has to be adjusted and there is no solution. Well, this bill will provide a structural solution. Mrs Onkelinx, ladies and gentlemen, we all have an interest in this draft law being dealt with as quickly as possible. Each quarter that expires is a problem for the financing and collection of quarters of social security. This must be dealt with urgently. So, if there are any further amendments for advice, it must be done as a matter of urgency.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-23-54-plenair-ip159x.u88	Thank you, Mr Lachaert. Are there any Members who would like to speak on this matter? [[No.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-23-54-plenair-ip159x.u89	Here's what I need to tell you. The Rules of Procedure do not provide for urgency or non-urgency. According to the Rules of Procedure, at the request of a sufficient number of members of the Chamber, it is for the President to consult the Council of State. The President shall decide on the urgency or non-urgency, i.e. the ordinary opinion or the urgent opinion within five days. Ladies and gentlemen, I am of course aware that we are risking some sort of carousel here, because these amendments can still be followed, even if we get them as a matter of urgency. I therefore propose the following. I would like to add a question for the opposition groups that support this request for opinion to the Council of State. I ask them to commit themselves to making these amendments the last on the subject. It's a promise... (...): (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-23-54-plenair-ip159x.u90	May I? It's up to me to decide. I can decide, but I make a proposal: we ask for advice in the normal period, but at the same time we take on board the commitment that this is the last round of amendments.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-23-54-plenair-ip159x.u91	Mr President, I am a little surprised by your question. You have seen, since the beginning of this Parliament, that we have not used dilatory manoeuvres such as those you refer to. At no time, when opinions of the Council of State came back on the basis of amendments tabled in plenary, we did not want to carousel. Never! We are responsible men and women, we are not trying to hinder the normal course of representative democracy.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-23-54-plenair-ip159x.u92	I confirm it.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-23-54-plenair-ip159x.u93	As you can confirm, I ask you to withdraw your question and trust us to continue to work as we have always done, respecting a healthy democracy.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-23-54-plenair-ip159x.u94	Mr President, I can only repeat what Mrs Onkelinx has just said. I find it really inappropriate that you, the President, are proposing this now. We have not used it at any time, and we have had the opportunity to do so, and we have had even more opportunities, because there are also other possibilities for the opposition. I would therefore urge you, Mr President, to withdraw your proposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-23-54-plenair-ip159x.u95	I take note of your words, Mrs Temmerman. I can only say for the sake of clarity that what Mrs Onkelinx has done is correct. The delay mechanisms have never been used in a way and there are many in our Rules of Procedure. Let us be clear about this: there are many, but these possibilities have never been used or abused. Colleagues, I propose that we make a decision, ask the Council of State for an ordinary opinion, reasonablely, and therefore close the chapter. Today or tomorrow, the question for an ordinary opinion, an opinion without urgency and therefore within 30 days instead of five days, can be sent to the Council of State. If we do this, we will still be able to bring this project to a successful conclusion before Easter if I do. That's my decision. It's up to me to take it.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-23-54-plenair-ip159x.u96	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Siegfried Bracke.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-23-54-plenair-ip159x.u97	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-23-54-plenair-ip159x.u98	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this legislative proposal from our chairman, Mr Bracke, was discussed in the Committee for the Interior at the meetings of 12 July 2016, 18 January 2017 and 8 February 2017. At the first committee meeting on 12 July, it was decided to seek prior advice from Brussels, Eupen and Namur. We received these opinions by letters dated 3 August 2016 from the city of Brussels, 28 October 2016 from the city of Eupen and 8 February 2017 from the city of Namur. On 18 January 2016, we decided to seek additional written advice from the Minister of the Interior. That opinion was delivered on 3 February 2017. The main proposer, Mr Bracke, has set out the main lines of the bill. These are made up of two parts. Firstly, the proposal establishes a neutral zone for legislative meetings which so far do not have such a zone. Secondly, there is a legal basis for security checks in the buildings of these Parliaments. Mr Bracke explained to us that the proposal was drawn up at the request of the Conference of Presidents of the various assemblies. The proposal was discussed and there were many interventions. Mr President, it is difficult to speak when there is so much noise. [[The president asked the assembly to be attentive]] During the discussion in the Committee on the Interior, there were statements by Mrs Lalieux, Mr Vanden Burre, Mr Vermeulen, Mr Pivin, Mr Degroote, Mrs Ben Hamou and Mrs Fonck. Amendments were tabled by the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, which were unfortunately rejected. There was also an amendment by Mr Pivin, which was retained. Ladies and gentlemen, we finally adopted the proposal with ten yes votes and three abstentions. Mr President, allow me briefly to comment on the proposal on behalf of my group, the Open Vld. Ladies and gentlemen, the proposal concerns us all, because it concerns our buildings and our parliaments. The proposal provides a legal basis for security controls in our parliaments. In addition, new neutral zones are being introduced around the Walloon Parliament and the Parliament of the German-speaking Community. Today's problem is this. There is Parliament's Rules of Procedure, but there is actually no legal basis for security checks in our buildings. This proposal closes the legal gap and therefore has a legal basis. Parliaments can decide for themselves what checks they carry out, an identity check, a technical or superficial search, and by whom these checks are carried out. At the request of the parliaments, neutral zones are also introduced around the Walloon Parliament and the Parliament of the German-speaking Community. The Brussels-Capital Parliament is not included in this neutral zone at its own request. My group is also pleased that it will be possible for security controls to be carried out by the private sector. That possibility is included in the text. The Open Vld Group will be enthusiastically voting in favour of this proposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-23-54-plenair-ip159x.u99	Mr President, as our rapporteur of the day said, whom I thank, we have had an interesting debate in committee. I will not be long, but I would like to justify my group's abstention in the vote that will take place just now. This proposal has nothing to do with the fact that, as its title indicates, it aims to ensure that parliamentary debates, and hence the legislative work of our institutions, can be conducted without hindrance. It is in this spirit, moreover, that a neutral zone was created many years ago around the Federal Parliament. It is in this spirit, above all, that our Assembly has its own public security services, whether civilian or military. The institutional evolution of our country, which has parliaments specific to the federated entities, makes it clear that reflections are now being carried out to create neutral zones around the parliaments of the Brussels Region, Wallonia or the German-speaking Community, which must also ensure the smooth running of their work. While we are obviously aware of the importance of ensuring the serenity of parliamentary work throughout the Kingdom and, in particular, around the different seats of their own, this serenity must not make our assemblies fortresses. They would be cut off from the world and send the image of institutions isolated from the debates and societal stakes surrounding them. We are justly elected to relay these same debates and represent our citizens. This assembly must therefore remain accessible. An appropriate balance must be struck between effective security and accessibility for Members and services. Furthermore, the amendments included in the text have serious consequences, which cannot be minimized, for the organisation of the police services, whose territorial jurisdiction covers the area concerned, especially where it includes tourist places. In the basic text and with regard to the neutral zone around the Brussels Parliament, I stressed that it was simply impossible to define a neutral zone in one of the tourist areas of the country. Instead, a memorandum of understanding could be drawn up between the Brussels Parliament, the Brussels mayors and the head of corps of the area concerned. So far, even before such a legislative amendment was made, many events have already taken place and have not given rise to any specific problems. I would point out, of course, the majority amendment which goes in this direction for the Brussels Parliament and which takes into account the common sense, of course, but also the opinions of the Brussels-Ixelles police zone. I will conclude by conveying Mrs Lahaye-Battheu's concerns about the fact that the text opens the door to the privatisation of the security tasks which are now assigned, in a structural and no longer ad hoc way, to the staff of private security companies, when – and I think, ladies and gentlemen, we are all convinced of this today – the security proper to the House and the other assemblies as well as the current military police are perfectly fulfilling the role we assign them, that is, the guarding role necessary to the characteristics of our forums and parliamentary democracy. In other words, we do not see the usefulness of opening the door to the possibilities of a private security that would become structural in our parliaments tomorrow. That is why we will abstain today.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-23-54-plenair-ip159x.u100	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, two words to say that we support this proposal, which has two objectives. The first is to clarify the role of each other in securing buildings in access and security controls. I believe that this is a clarification that was necessary and timely, especially in the particular context we know. On the other hand, I would like to say how satisfied we are with the objective of defining a neutral zone perimeter, not so much for Brussels, whose exemption is obviously understood, given its tourist character – and it is certainly not I, as Brussels, who will contradict it – but, above all, for the cities and regions of Wallonia and the German-speaking Community (Eupen) which, during the debate, have made known how much they are taking on this initiative which is now being taken and which allows for the establishment of neutral zones. So it's done. We will, of course, support and support this proposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-23-54-plenair-ip159x.u101	Mr President, during the debates in committee on this text, I have repeatedly pointed out that, for us, parliaments should not become fortresses but that we understand the request of several regional parliaments. The debates in the committee were instructive. A particularly important element in our view is the fact that the text specifically calls for private guarding to ensure security at the entrances of the various parliaments, which environmentalists have always opposed in the discussion of the various texts involving private guarding. We have therefore tabled in committee, together with my colleague Stefaan Van Hecke, an amendment which proposes to remove this part of the text. This amendment was rejected by the majority. Therefore, we will abstain from this text because, for us, it is not possible for private agents to take care of the security of our parliaments.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-23-54-plenair-ip159x.u102	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in addition to the problem of private guarding raised by many of us, this proposal will severely restrict the freedom to demonstrate. But it is a right of the population. It is at a time when the gap between the citizen and politics is becoming ever deeper that parliaments decide to strengthen the walls around them. Neutral zones imply the prohibition of assembly in different places. The aim is supposedly to avoid terrorist threats. As if a terrorist who wants to commit an attack would be held back by such measures! That doesn't make much sense. It is clear that we want to ban the margins of protest, the demonstrations, the rallies. With this measure, the majority shows that they want to keep street anger as far away from the street of the Act as possible. I quote the European Court of Human Rights: "People have the right to express their dissatisfaction with official bodies and even have the democratic right to make their protests heard in symbolic places." This is what the European Court of Human Rights has decided this month with regard to the ban in Russia on gatherings around the courts. The European Court of Human Rights has held that gatherings around the courts should be possible in a democratic society. That is why the PTB, which supports the freedom to demonstrate, will vote against this proposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-23-54-plenair-ip159x.u103	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-23-54-plenair-ip159x.u104	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1884/5) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1884/5) The title in Dutch was amended by the Committee to amend the Law of 2 March 1954 on the prevention and control of attacks on the free exercise of sovereign powers established by the Constitution. The draft law amending the Law of 2 March 1954 on the prevention and control of attacks on the free exercise of the sovereign powers established by the Constitution. The bill has 5 articles. The bill has 5 articles.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-23-54-plenair-ip159x.u105	****** The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendment that has been tabled, the article that has been adopted and on the whole will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendment and the reserved article as well as on the whole will take place at a later date. ******
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-23-54-plenair-ip159x.u106	******
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-23-54-plenair-ip159x.u107	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteur is Mr Klaps. He shall refer to his written report. There were no speakers for the general discussion. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-23-54-plenair-ip159x.u108	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2277/3) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2277/3) The draft law has 24 articles. The bill has 24 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-23-54-plenair-ip159x.u109	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-23-54-plenair-ip159x.u110	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteur, Mr Flahaux, informed me that he was referring to his written report. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? ) The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-23-54-plenair-ip159x.u111	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2265/1) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2265/1) The draft law has two articles. The bill has two articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-23-54-plenair-ip159x.u112	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-23-54-plenair-ip159x.u113	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteur is Mrs Van Hoof. It shall refer to its written report. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? ) The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-23-54-plenair-ip159x.u114	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2283/3) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2283/3) The draft law contains 5 articles. The bill has five articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-23-54-plenair-ip159x.u115	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-23-54-plenair-ip159x.u116	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Mr Vercamer, rapporteur, refers to the written report. Mrs Fonck and Mrs de Coster-Bauchau, rapporteurs, also refer to the written report. Ladies and gentlemen, amendments have been introduced. An agreement had been reached in the Conference of Presidents to request, here too, the opinion of the Council of State. That is why I am asking for the opinion. As soon as that opinion is received, we will continue the debates.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-23-54-plenair-ip159x.u117	Proposals tabled by: Proposals submitted by: - 1501: Sybille de Coster-Bauchau, Olivier Chastel, Denis Ducrame, David Clarinval, Stéphanie Thoron, Kattrin Jadin, Benoît Friart Catherine Fonck.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-23-54-plenair-ip159x.u118	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-23-54-plenair-ip159x.u119	Mr President, will Mr Peeters join us in considering this draft? It's not a small project!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-23-54-plenair-ip159x.u120	I'll have Minister Peeters check the building.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-23-54-plenair-ip159x.u121	Mr President, I propose that my colleagues make the report; in the meantime, with a little luck, the minister will arrive. Can we meet on this? In this way, we are moving forward.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-23-54-plenair-ip159x.u122	Thank you, Mrs Fonck, for this proposal. Do we agree? [[Sentiment]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-23-54-plenair-ip159x.u123	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank the services of the House for their work in drafting this report, which is quite substantial. On 10 January, Mr Kris Peeters, Deputy Prime Minister, Minister for the Economy, Employment and Consumer Affairs, had the privilege of presenting to your Social Affairs Committee the government's bill on feasible and manageable work, which will be submitted to your approval later this evening. With the help of a highly imaginative indicative PowerPoint document, which you will find on pages 143 et seq. of the written version of this report, the Minister has focused on explaining the sometimes complex mechanisms of this bill and the reasons for it. First of all, he explained the reasons for the need for a major reform of the labour market, recalling that Belgian labour law dates back to the 20th century. However, the world has changed considerably since then, and the economic, geopolitical, societal, demographic and technological developments that we are witnessing require fundamental adaptations. New forms of organisational models are emerging, and the law must respond to what workers face in reality. Customers also express new expectations. Companies, like workers, need more flexibility, efficiency, speed and creativity. Workers, like companies, are seeking changes in the frameworks in which they operate, without prejudice to the legitimate social protections they enjoy. According to the Minister, the substance of our labour law is good and effectively protects workers. On the other hand, it no longer adequately addresses current economic and social issues and does not offer enough flexibility and speed to adapt to the changes in our society. That is why the minister has told us that we want to introduce a modernized, tailor-made labour law with three objectives: to offer opportunities to create jobs, manageable work for everyone and social innovation. The Minister emphasized the ability to offer flexible labour rights, with the possibility of tailor-made rules by sector. Before getting to the heart of the matter, the draft law knows several preparatory sources: the government agreement of course, a study of the possibilities of derogation for companies, the proposals made at round tables between the firm and the social partners, the subsequent proposals of the social partners. After agreement within the government, in April 2016, a new consultation with the social partners took place, which led, after new arbitrations within the government, to the version that was presented to you on 10 January 2017. The bill is organized into two main parts: a base and a menu. The basis includes measures applicable to all undertakings, i.e. the annualisation of working time, the supplementary voluntary overtime scheme, the training of workers and occasional telework. The menu, and this is the main conceptual innovation, is a legal framework that offers sectors and businesses the opportunity to develop tailor-made rules. The minister first focused on detailing the base, first of all the annualization of working time. He then spoke about volunteer overtime. The bill introduces a maximum of one hundred additional hours of voluntary work per calendar year, whether or not the worker chooses to pay, in agreement with the employer. They obviously give rise to a surcharge, which can be traded against a registration in a career account. The training of workers is also provided for in the law, as well as occasional telework which, unlike structural telework, has a clear and unified regulation which was previously lacking. This bill intends to remedy this by, among other things, introducing the right of the employee to request telework on an occasional basis. This bill also introduces temporary employment for an indefinite period, a final legislative framework for the system of grouping of employers and a simplification of part-time work. The second part of the menu, presented by the Minister, deals with the work that can be done. In this context, the time savings account is introduced, which in a way saves the worker time during his career, which he can use on leave later, in order to better manage the different periods of his career, in full autonomy.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-23-54-plenair-ip159x.u124	The time saved may take several forms - days off, overtime, bonuses - which the worker may freely choose without obligation to use. Another measure is the work that can be done. The minister explained to us the provisions for extending the total duration of the palliative leave to three months. In addition, the project extends the full duration of the time credit to 51 months, on grounds of care, in the absence of an ad hoc collective labour agreement. The minister has told us about the provisions relating to floating hours, which are already quite common practice, but which, for lack of legal framework, pose many problems. Adjustments in terms of working hours, contracts, protection of remuneration and labour regulations are therefore introduced by law. Last but not least, the minister has also introduced the possibility, until now formally prohibited, which I personally care about, offered to an employee to give his days off to a colleague who is the parent of a seriously ill child. This is the "Juliette" measure. Only those agreed days exceeding the 20 days of minimum leave provided for by European legislation will be eligible for a donation. The measure may apply to a dependent child up to the age of 21. Since sufficient seriousness is recognized by medical certificate, anonymity will be guaranteed. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen, and now leave the floor to Mr Egbert Lachaert, co-rapporteur.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-23-54-plenair-ip159x.u125	Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank the previous speaker for the first part of the report of our intensive discussions on the draft law on workable work submitted by the Minister for Labour. I am reporting on the general discussions by the various parties in the committee. On behalf of the Socialist Party, we have heard Mr Delizée and Mr Daerden. They stressed in committee that, according to their group, the draft law would undermine the social protection of workers and promote greater flexibility, which, according to their group, would be detrimental to the balance between work and private life. According to them, this will give rise to less workable work rather than the objective of the law. They also pointed out that, according to them, women workers would be the first victims of policy. The Group of the Party of European Socialists, through Mr Delizée and Mr Daerden, also drew attention to the critical remarks made by the Council of State on the system of annualisation combined with 100 voluntary overtime, which, according to the PS Group, can be raised to 360 hours by raising the internal border, which is not in line with the European Working Time Directive and the 48 hours worked in it. They also pointed out that working time legislation is already very complex and will become even more complex. On behalf of the N-VA Group, Mr Zuhal Demir spoke in committee. It did not express its satisfaction with the untruths that were preached about the draft law, since it did not abolish the 38-hour week at all, but amended labour legislation, which dates back to 1971. This adjustment would respond to today's needs. College Demir also pointed out that Belgium did not score well in terms of training and that the 1.9% criterion had not yet been met, which would be the case with this law. It also expressed satisfaction with the legal framework created for temporary agency work for an indefinite period. The N-VA also reviewed the state of play regarding the evaluation of the pilot period by the social partners and had to conclude that the present draft law is positive, both for the labour organisations and for the employees themselves. Mr Clarinval, on behalf of the MR Group, was also disturbed by the incorrect reporting that the 38-hour week would be abolished. He stressed the importance of the design to restore the competitiveness of enterprises, improve job creation and thus continue to finance social security. He also pointed out that Wallonia is lagging behind on the element of education and that this is an important factor in the competitiveness of our companies. He concluded that the draft law aims to achieve a better balance between professional and private life. It gives the employee more freedom to develop his or her career and also raises the issue of mobility. Finally, Mr Clarinval stressed once again that the opposition had made an abominable caricature of the bill, pretending that the path of slavery was being followed. Mr Stefaan Vercamer spoke on behalf of the CD&V Group. He also noted that there were a lot of misunderstandings about the design. The conversion into compulsory training days is a good thing. If companies did not comply, a sanction mechanism would be provided for. The deposit of money into a training fund is also made possible. He also pointed out that his group had already submitted its own legislative proposal in order to give the employee the choice in career savings between settlement in time or in money. On behalf of the CD&V Group, Mr Vercamer expressed his satisfaction that the draft law on the labour market prepares the way for the future. On behalf of the Open Vld Group, I myself took the floor. I referred to the draft law as the most important draft law in this legislature on labour law reforms. I called it an honorable compromise, because it is proof of a healthy employment relationship based on mutual trust and respect between the social partners and the partners in the workplace, the employer and the employee. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats also stressed once again that the average working time itself is not changed. There is only an extension of the reference period with the one-year calculation for the average working time of 38 hours. The Open Vld Group regretted that several opposition parties made a caricature of the draft law, and thus basically assumed a fundamental distrust in the workplace in the relations between employers and employees. On behalf of the sp.a Group, Mrs Kitir stressed that it was not a question of mistrust for her, but of a legitimate fear of exploitation of workers. She referred to people working under an interim contract and to the fact that some workers are being placed in flexible statutes for too long. She also referred to a series of measures that were not included in the draft, such as the increase in social contributions for companies overuse precarious contracts, gender issues and numerous measures, such as part-time work. With regard to the annualisation of working hours, Mr Kitir, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, stressed on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats that it was regrettable that a collective agreement was no longer strictly necessary. On behalf of the Ecolo Green Group, colleagues Gilkinet and Willaert said that they saw this bill as a missed opportunity. The speakers underlined the impact of the draft law on gender-related issues, in particular on single mothers. They also regretted the lack of respect for social dialogue. On behalf of the CdH Group, Mr Fonck, who will soon be responsible for the final part of the report, stressed that the draft law would wipe out the grass at the feet of the social partners who, if they had been given more time, would have come up with better solutions. According to the CdH Group, the measures in the draft are generally too complicated and help the employee only to a small extent. According to colleague Fonck, the impact of the design on women has not been sufficiently investigated. It also regretted the generalisation of annualisation and saw it as a wrong choice. On behalf of PTB-GO! Mr Hedebouw felt that the draft had been given far too short a time for discussion, both in Parliament and in the social partners. He felt that the measures contained in the draft law would make workers even more subordinate to employers and that the social dialogue would be mortgaged. He felt, attested by other members of the committee, that the draft law would allow 45 hours a week to be worked for almost five months, followed by five months at 31 hours. On behalf of the DEFI, Mrs Caprasse stressed that she was not opposed to the modernisation of labour law, but that this draft was too much in line with the wishes of employers. She felt that the concept of flexicurity should have been chosen rather than flexibility and felt that the social dialogue had not been given enough time to deliver an opinion on the draft. With regard to career savings, she was concerned about the portability of the savings. Finally, as regards the training objective, it stressed the importance of pointing out that an average could not be an individual right of an employee. So much for the general discussion. I believe that Mr Catherine Fonck will be responsible for the final part of the report.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-23-54-plenair-ip159x.u126	Mr President, I thank my co-rapporteurs because, following their proposal, we had divided the work. It will be my task here to set out the elements provided by the members of the committee in the discussion of the articles. I will focus on the amendments and the alternative positions tabled, since, as such, in the discussion of the articles, there have been, of course, technical explanations and clarifications, but the main thing has been the presentation of alternative positions. I'll take them theme by theme. At the level of the title, the PS and sp.a introduced an amendment to delete the word "feasible". As regards working time, the PS, Sp.a. and DéFI introduced an amendment to allow more time for the social partners to conclude agreements derogating from annalisation. For the cdH group, I have tabled an alternative proposal to favour the flexibility of a reference period, à la carte, to calculate the average working time which may be one year or shorter. Of the 100 voluntary overtime hours without recovery and, in particular, for the internal limit of Article 26bis of the Law of 16 March 1971 on Work extended in the law to 143 hours, the PS, Sp.a. and DéFI have tabled an amendment to remove the increase of the limit to 143 hours. For the chapter on the new training effort objective, the PS, Sp.a. and DéFI have submitted an alternative proposal to ensure that each worker can benefit individually from training by deleting the reference to an average and to make it compulsory to issue a certificate certifying that the worker has undergone training. They also proposed that each time the reference to full-time equivalents should be replaced by a reference to the worker and that each worker should be guaranteed five effective days of training rather than an average of five days. The PS, Sp.a. and Défi have also tabled an amendment that guarantees each worker five days of training, but from 1 January 2021 onwards, and guarantees each worker five days with two days of training, from 1 January 2019. Chairperson: Siegfried Bracke, Chair.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-23-54-plenair-ip159x.u127	The Ecolo-Groen Group has proposed as an alternative to replacing the interprofessional objective of five days of training "on average" with the guarantee of two days of training for each worker, by providing for a growth path to reach five days of training per individual worker from 1 January 2019. Finally, for the cdH group, on the training side, I proposed as an alternative the inclusion of small and medium-sized enterprises with fewer than ten workers, which were not provided for in the bill, under the obligation of training, provided that this was informal training carried out within the company. As regards occasional telework, the PS and Sp.a have tabled several amendments, one aimed at prohibiting workers from claiming to telework occasionally in the case of a strike recognised by a representative trade union, as well as an amendment laying down essential working conditions in a social agreement. Several amendments were introduced by the Ecolo-Groen Group, which included proposals on job adjustment for workers aged 55 and over and 24 new articles on various topics, including a change in the rules on unemployment introducing more flexibility in the event of the abandonment of suitable employment without legitimate grounds, the rights of close caregivers, the Tandem Plan, birth leave and bereavement leave. Also in this area of occasional telework, the cdH group has tabled amendments concerning a postponement of the entry of these provisions into force on 1 August 2017, to allow time for the social partners, and also an alternative proposal to amend the occasional telework provisions of the draft law so that this is done directly within each company, in consultation between the workers and the employer. On the issue of conventional leave, the Ecolo-Groen Group has tabled an amendment to remove this gift of conventional leave. With regard to the reform of employer groups, the PS and Sp.a. have tabled an amendment which re-establishes the obligation for the Minister to seek the advice of the National Labour Council for the recognition of a group of employers and to limit such grouping of employers over time. On the simplification of part-time work, the PS and the Sp.a have tabled several amendments, on the one hand, to have a five-day information period which must be an absolute minimum. DéFI had joined. On the other hand, the PS and Sp.a have tabled amendments to combat the misuse of amendments to the contract of employment for part-time benefits. They also changed the title to "Simplification and measures to combat part-time work-related abuse". As far as I am concerned, I have tabled an amendment to request, through the law, an assessment, two years after the entry into force of this chapter, of the impact on women. At the level of floating schedules, the PS, Sp.a. and DéFI tabled an amendment to prevent improper use of the floating schedule regime. Finally, for the last two chapters, namely the extension of palliative care leave and time credits, I have tabled an amendment to extend the adoption leave. Of the starters jobs that are not part of the bill as such, two amendments had been tabled by the government but were withdrawn. In summary, no amendments were accepted on the whole discussion of the articles and amendments. Finally, to conclude this report, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make it clear that the bill as a whole (including a number of linguistic and legal corrections proposed by the services that I would like to thank for their contribution but also for all the legal analysis that has been carried out) was adopted by eleven votes to three and one abstention.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-23-54-plenair-ip159x.u128	Thank you for your report, Mrs Fonck.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-23-54-plenair-ip159x.u129	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, in committee we have talked very extensively about workable work. Both members of the majority and of the opposition and also the minister himself have taken the floor extensively. The Minister's cabinet staff have held a very clear PowerPoint presentation, for which we thank you once again, Minister. Together with all the parties who will be voting in favour of the draft law on workable and manoeuvrable work, I think we should be proud. With today's approval, we are giving the green light to 14 different instruments to make the work workable and manoeuvrable. Several of these instruments should allow workers to better adapt their work to their private lives. This is much needed, because the classic work model has evolved from a household model to a model in which both heads of household work. There is therefore an urgent need to make this coordination possible. We also provide employers with tools to better tailor their work organisation to their needs. Minister, you mention your bill as a menu from which employees and employers can choose. The rules of play for each of these fourteen instruments are set up to ensure a balance between the interests of employees and employers. I think that balance is very important. The opposition said in committee that it is mainly a draft law that enables workers to be exploited and that it is entirely geared towards employers. That is not true, however. Together with several other colleagues, I think it is a sound balance, taking into account both the needs of the workers and those of the employers. As a legislator, we mainly give space and autonomy: autonomy to organize the work tailor-made and also autonomy to make agreements as an employee with his or her employer. Autonomy is also the key word in all studies and all recommendations on workable and manoeuvrable work. As legislators, we should not be too patronising, nor should we be afraid of giving autonomy. The other day I read an international study that showed that employees with autonomy at work were healthier and less burned-out. Furthermore, they were able to maintain a good balance between work and private life. The criticism of this law by some is therefore inappropriate and demonstrates a lack of confidence in the qualities of employees and employers. The time has passed when the legislator had to determine everything from needle to thread. We really need to leave room for the social partners in the workplace to reach agreements. With this law we also open the door to telework, a career bill, giving conventional leave, sliding working hours and care leave. These are all tools that help workers to better combine their work with their private lives. Minister, as far as care leave is concerned, I should like to go further. I know that the social partners are working on this, but I received quite a lot of emails a few months ago from employees who have a newly constituted family or who are divorced. In the week in which they have their children they would like to take parental leave or another care leave, but in the week in which they do not have the children they would not want to do so. I know that the social partners are in the process of drafting a legislative proposal, but perhaps we can offer workers more flexibility in terms of the thematic leave, including the new family forms that are present in our society today. In addition, we also invest a lot in the training of employees. I believe that very strongly too. I believe that we should strengthen our employees during their career with an employer. Today, after all, we only wake up very late, after a discharge. Then the employee still needs to be trained quickly. However, with the provisions on training in this draft law, we respond to these criticisms, by effectively giving workers the opportunity for training. In addition, in consultation with the employer, we also give the employees more space to complete an hourly schedule on an annual basis or to work overtime on a voluntary basis. For some people in this House, flexibility is a diabolical word that only the employer is good at. I do not believe that, however. I believe that workers also need this flexibility. Flexibility is not a dirty word either. I invite my fellow Members to look beyond the borders of northern and central Europe. Many people are thinking about flexibility in a different way. It concerns countries where the rate of activity today is 75% or more. This draft law paves the way for more autonomy and tailor-made work, both for employers and for employees. That is the path that we must continue in the years to come. That path makes the work more workable and manoeuvrable. I think this will also boost our efficiency. Minister, our group will support this draft law 100%.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-23-54-plenair-ip159x.u130	Mr President, Mr Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I thank the rapporteurs. It is true that many of them were needed for a project of such importance. Minister, we spent some 25 hours in committee to examine this project. This was necessary because this project significantly alters labour law as it exists in Belgium today. This project will make a concrete change in the lives of workers, in the daily, weekly, monthly and annual organization of work in Belgium. Before dealing with the draft in broad terms and without repeating the long debate and the in-depth examination that we have had in committee, I would first like to express some general or cross-cutting considerations and to return for a moment to what I call the genesis of this dossier. Mr Minister, it was during the debate on raising retirement to 66 or 67 that you launched this concept of werkbaar werk. As a first step, it was a kind of smoker that was launched in this debate that was imposed by the government on the Hussard. We spent days and nights on this pension issue and you launched this concept, which we welcomed with some surprise. What's that? ? At some point, we were talking more about werkbaar werk than pensions themselves! At that time, the government imposed a marathon to raise the legal pension to 66 years in 2025 and 67 years in 2030, but without defining in advance, and after consultation, the exceptions to the future regime and the definition of penitibility and arduous trades. In this context, it was consistent to think about career development, in particular career ends and "feasible work" up to 66 or 67 years of age. It took a while for the translation to be found in French. Let me make a very small parenthesis! The law on raising the legal retirement age was passed on 23 July 2015, i.e. a year and a half ago. And the workers, who ask themselves a lot of questions, are still waiting to know the definition of penitibility, the difficult jobs and the modalities to be recognized in it. This, of course, raises many questions and concerns among workers about their future retirement. I read that things were moving forward. I hope that at some point we will have explanations on this. I'm saying it, because it's part of the context. You organised a round table of the social partners on this feasible work, which in itself was a good initiative. Around this round table, both workers' and employers' representatives put forward ideas, requests and proposals, and in committee, our colleague Mrs Kitir made it a non-exhaustive list. The demands and ideas of the workers were not accepted, but abandoned. At that time, you introduced a draft bill, in which it quickly became apparent that the demands of the workers were forgotten. This is how your project on the werkbaar werk, the "feasible work", came to us in Parliament. You added the "handy work". As the titles of bills rarely say, with this government, what they really are dealing with, I think it is necessary, as often called the bill; I would call it "a bill to promote flexibility." Maybe we could talk about maximum flexibility and I'd even add flexibility to the boss version. Unlike the previous speaker, I do not see flexibility as a big word. It exists today. In the labour market, there are breaks in work, collective agreements. These elements exist and have been recalled by the Minister and other colleagues as well. The whole thing is to see what we want to do, how we will organize it, by what devices, for what purposes and who will pay the bill. This is my first general consideration. The second concerns social consultation. You talk a lot about it. It was recalled that, in the government agreement, the term is quoted a hundred times. It is not because we talk about it much that we respect it and implement it as it existed. We believe that the conditions for dialogue have fundamentally changed or are in the process of being changed. During the hearings, some social partners spoke of a paradigm shift. Previously, in certain areas of competence, the State allowed the social partners to agree and passed the content of the CLCs approved by the social partners in the form of royal decrees. Sometimes some arbitrations were necessary, but always referred to the search for the best balance. Now, it is a triangular relationship that is in place, in which the government dictates its law: it sets the framework, sometimes it interrupts ongoing discussions to give it another direction, and it is more interventionist. And the government's course is obviously the course of austerity. This applies to labour law. This applies to social security with the new funding mechanisms. This was also mentioned in the previous debate on amendments to the Council of State. This applies in health care with mutualities, etc. So we are no longer part of joint management in health care, but of triangular management with a decisive role for the government. My third point concerns the quality of employment because, finally, beyond social consultation, the key question is the vision of the labour market and, in particular, the quality of employment. What we want for all are quality jobs that allow us to live in a correct and dignified way, which also allow us to reconcile work and family life. I'll come back. And, finally, it is also jobs that allow personal development. But the reality of the labour market is not that. The inter-federal barometer of poverty reminds us that our country has poor workers, that is, households that, despite work, live on incomes below the poverty line. And we all know that unselected part-time work is also job traps or purchasing power traps, which are sources of insecurity. For us, the quality of employment is a central issue. All too often, we find that, in our economic system, the worker is ultimately seen as a factor for economic adjustment. We're fired to make more money. We're closing a factory to increase the dividends. Our colleague, Eric Massin, asked a question this afternoon about Caterpillar's case. This has sparked a great deal of emotion in this House on all the benches, the majority as opposed, when the multinational announced its intention to shut down its Gosselies factory altogether and to sacrifice, in the name of profitability, in the name of dividends, several thousand jobs. Our vision is that our social model should not be seen as a barrier to competitiveness and growth. Our deep conviction is that the economy must be organized in the service of man, not the other way round. Man must work to live and not live to work. This is my third general consideration. My fourth consideration concerns the distribution of available work, which is another cross-cutting issue raised by this bill. Overtime exists today. In the sectors, in enterprises, they have been negotiated, they are regulated by collective labour agreements and by law. There are beacons. The project before us will substantially increase the number of overtime hours, the number of hours worked per day and per week. Minister, you're moving towards a kind of maximum flexibility. Of course, you go further than the current system. If new overtime were substituted for those already on the ground, it would create thousands of jobs. Because, on the other hand, if you want to make more work for those who have a job, there is also the challenge of unemployment. Today, there are about 500,000 job seekers and there is no work for everyone. The Socialist Group believes that we must dare to debate the work available and the way in which it is distributed. Finally, the question is: which society do we want? At a time when almost one in four workers is experiencing excessive stress at work - there are studies on which Frédéric Daerden will return - I am thinking of the burn-out and a number of observations made over the weeks and months, all this must also be taken into account in this debate. We have also seen, for example, that the budget for disability has now exceeded that for unemployment. From these findings it is necessary to reflect on the organisation of the labour market in our country, especially since many workers are deprived of a job. I now turn to the bill. I'm not going to go back to all the subjects. I assure you, I'm only going to talk about a few of them. The annualisation of working time is undoubtedly a key measure for you in what you call "the base" and which is necessary for everyone, without consultation. In fact, annualization is already possible today. It is an exception but it becomes the rule when you impose it in companies that organise flexibility, even if they do not want it or do not need it. The annualisation of working time will have the effect of exhausting the worker before he can benefit from rest periods. I will elaborate on this point. It should not be assumed that it is the worker who will be able to decide to work a little more such a week or a little less another week. He will not have the choice to say that he has alternate custody, so he will work such a week, while he will not go to work when his child is there. It's not the worker who will decide. The reality of the labour market is this: it is the employer who sets the timetables according to his order book. So there will also be pressure on the workers. When you talk about volunteer overtime, we are sincerely convinced that this will not be the case given the balance of power within the company. In existing legislation, wherever flexibility is needed, it has been negotiated and applied in exchange for compensation for workers. However, the measure as you anticipate it no longer falls within this framework. We believe that it will promote unnecessary tensions that can undermine social peace in our businesses. This is a first aspect of the annualisation of working time which you are imposing on all companies and which I wanted to address. And then we also discussed this provision under European law. We have just discussed urgent amendments. It is wise for social security projects or projects to give the Council of State time to consider the substance of the amendments. Introducing an emergency request covering five days, while the Council of State must have the time to check whether the procedures have been followed and whether the opinions have been requested from the NTC - yes, they have - on the grounds that we do not have the time - leads to frustration. I do not hide from you that, from a legal point of view, we did not have the same point of view in committee. In the end, we did not receive any specific opinion or comment from the Council of State because of the urgency. I regret it for this project, Minister. As far as security is concerned, I think that Mr. President has made a good decision. For such essential matters, the urgency really makes no sense, because it does not give the Council of State time to deepen the issues of law. I therefore come to European law. The 2003 Directive clearly addresses the reference period, which is a maximum of four months. Of course, it can be extended to 12 months, but only by the social partners - therefore, not by the government - taking into account the health and safety of workers and being justified. None of these conditions can be found in your bill. It is the government that imposes annalisation without taking into account the effects on workers or denying them. According to your definition in the bill: health impact assessment? None. Impact study on gender equality? None. We believe that you do not respect European law, and the Council of State had asked the same questions, but we were unable to go to the substance of the question within the time limit set for it. In addition, the government facilitates for the employer the introduction of the flexibility regime to force workers to take nine hours a day and 45 hours a week, without any extra pay. This will have a concrete impact on the worker's payroll. You tell us we'll work a little more for a period and a little less later. This must be nuanced, but today the rule is that when the worker works more than 40 hours, overtime is paid at least 150%. With your flexibility, they will no longer be paid at 150% only after 45 hours a week, which, in concrete terms, for the worker, represents five hours less paid at 150%. This is equivalent to a loss of two and a half hours' pay. I come to the so-called "voluntary" overtime. We have debated whether or not you are maintaining the 38-hour week. You're pretending you're not. If a worker is working 45 hours a week for six months, he or she should only work 31 hours a week for the next six months. This is your reasoning and argumentation. However, this argument must be nuanced because you have offered other opportunities for the employer to compel the worker to work overtime without justification. It is the sum and juxtaposition of the measures which will, in the long run, pose difficulties. Thus, after 45 hours of work, the worker will still be able to receive 100 extra hours per year, which can be increased to 360 per collective labour agreement. You say that this will be done at the request of the worker and with his consent. The situation depends on the type of occupation but the worker who worked 45 hours would find his employer to say: "I feel in good shape and I'll ask you if you still have a few extra hours that I can do." You have to be serious! The reality is quite different. We believe that the worker will not be able to oppose his employer. Today we see pressure on work and blackmail on employment and dismissal. As a result, low-skilled workers will only have the option of accepting overtime in addition to the overtime they would be offered. But you deny the imbalance that exists, in the company, between the two parties. In an employment contract, the worker is the weakest part. He is also under the authority of his employer. If there are 50 weeks of work in a year, an average of 100 hours is an additional two hours per week. According to our reading of your bill, you are increasing the week from 38 hours to a 40-hour week, which can be increased by a collective agreement. On the time limit, I was talking about 45 hours, but we are clear that workers will be able to work more than 45 hours a week. Some talk about the 50-hour week. In the debate in committee, Minister, you did not contradict that. I come back to the 2003 directive. It clearly states that: "The average working time for each seven-day period shall not exceed 48 hours, including overtime." By allowing people to work beyond 48 hours, the government again contravenes this directive. It is not sufficient to state that exceptions may prejudice the Directive. First of all, it doesn't make sense. The directive is binding on the law. By definition, the law cannot affect it. Secondly, legislation must comply with the directive and, above all, means must be put in place to enforce the legislation. This is yet another debate. This is not what the government is doing. With your measurements, we believe that all abuses are possible. We are not saying that everyone is going to abuse, but all abuses are possible. If you have not been right, we have tabled an amendment so that at least we can monitor the observance of working time. In short: weeks that can go up to 48 or even 50 hours, and a return to an average of 40 hours per week. For us, of course, this is an unacceptable social decline. We set up 40 hours a week in our country in 1975. That was forty years ago. We're back 40 years. On the internal limit, the question can also be asked: after all these hours a week, when will workers be able to rest? According to your project, the worker will only be granted compensatory rest after 168 overtime hours (the 143, plus the 25 that do not count). So 168 hours is the equivalent of 21 eight-hour workdays. It's a month of work. This is more than the statutory number of annual vacations for a five-day plan. We also find this unacceptable. All this is for us at the opposite ends of a better reconciliation between private, family and professional life. We have to realize the reality. Many workers can't do it anymore. Studies show that eight out of ten parents lack time and find it difficult to reconcile work, family and personal activities. The main problem facing us today is the lack of control of our time. With this bill, workers will have even less control over their time. They will be at the mercy of their employer who may require overtime. I am not going to mention all the other measures, but some might have been interesting. Often, they are conditioned by the willingness of the employer, who can simply refuse them. This is your famous menu. The menu does not mean that everyone does what he likes and we accept what he wants. The employer may refuse what it does not want to grant. Occasional telework can be used to reduce workers' right to collective action, the right to strike. That's probably an objective. Floating hours could be used by the employer to provide unpaid overtime. On the subject of training, I want to say that you are replacing the principle of 1.9% of the wage bill with an average of five days of training per year per full-time equivalent. We've been talking about it for a long time. It's probably a missed opportunity. The main criticism that can be made of this measure is that you will not introduce a genuine individual right to training for the worker. This is an average. The employer will therefore be able to decide in his company who will have access to the training and who will not have it. There is no guarantee for the worker to have these days of training. It is known that workers will not be equal before this right to training. Women will do less training. Workers over 45 years of age will not have the same access to training. Less skilled workers will have less access to training. So it's totally unequal. It's our vision of things anyway. On the other hand, you do not impose any deadlines to achieve the objective. Will it be for 2020, for 2030, 2060, 2100? We don't know. Finally, this right to training, this duty of training can be postponed forever. No penalties are foreseen for companies that will make no effort to achieve the objectives. Finally, companies will have the right to make efforts or not. There was also extensive discussion of informal training and the issue of the quality of training offered. All this makes this device appear to us as an empty shell that does not guarantee the individual right of each worker. Minister, in conclusion, you are telling us that your project wants to prepare our labour market for the 21st century. You might as well say that this is not our reading of the file! No, your project will not allow workers to better reconcile their family and working lives. No, the ball is not clearly on the side of the social partners. And no, it is not a balanced project for us. This is your government's vision: finally, social protection seems to be a kind of unsustainable burden that must be decoupled at all costs. That's not our vision of things. Wages, the revision of the 1996 Act, social security and working conditions are being tackled. Yet history shows that the protection and well-being of workers has made considerable progress in our country. At the heart of the economic crisis, our social protection system has supported our economy. Increasing productivity depends first on the well-being of workers, better reconciliation between work and family life, better working conditions, better training and better health care. Thanks to our social model, thanks to the evolution of technology and training, the productivity of Belgian workers has increased fivefold over the last 50 years. It takes five times less hours today to produce the same wealth. However, during this period, the working hours did not increase, it decreased. We have increased from 45 hours a week in 1964 to 38 hours a week since 2003. We believe that there is a need for a real vision for the future. In forty years, we have found that no reduction in unemployment has been linked to flexibility. As much as it exists, and as we can see, we believe that this is not the solution to the problem of unemployment. Increasing the number of people in employment has never improved the overall economic situation or improved the situation of hundreds of thousands of people who, unfortunately, do not find employment. In this debate, we want to reiterate that Belgian workers are among the most productive in the world. Day after day, we must pay tribute to the work of these workers who give of their person, who run their business, who run the economy of our country. These must be at the centre of our concerns. We certainly diverge on this point. We believe that we need to give them more time. We must give them all a breath of oxygen. That is why we plead for a society that otherwise distributes the work available, which is obviously not the meaning of your bill. We believe that we must dare this debate on the collective reduction of working time. Is it possible that by working less, we could live better? Is that really impossible? We believe that history has shown that this was not impossible. Working hours have decreased over time. That's the meaning of history. With the government, you are moving in the wrong direction, your bill is a step backwards, a real social step backwards, and it goes without saying, Minister, that the Socialist Group will not support it.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-23-54-plenair-ip159x.u131	Thank you, Mr. Delizée. Mr Clarinval has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-23-54-plenair-ip159x.u132	I welcome your enthusiasm, colleagues. Mr President, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the important reform of the so-called "manable and feasible work", and this is perhaps one of the only points on which I would agree with Mr Delizée, has a title which is a bit rebarbative in French. This reform was long overdue in Belgium. It was expected by our companies and the world of work. At the MR, we wanted to see it come to fruition quickly for three main reasons. First of all, the necessary adaptation to today's world. Our economy is increasingly facing major sociological changes. We need to adapt to new technologies, increasingly demanding customer expectations, the digital economy and new ways of organising work. Secondly, care should be taken to provide as clear a framework as possible to maintain a good balance between private and professional life. Finally, it is our responsibility to do everything possible to ensure the competitiveness of our businesses. Indeed, our model of work organisation must be increasingly flexible and effective. Our labour legislation, which dates back to the 1970s, had become too rigid and had to be adapted to the risk of losing our economy and losing our competitiveness, which is a source of job creation. We rejoiced when we heard a little over a year ago about the law on work that could be done. A year in which some had the opportunity to tell a lot, and sometimes anything, about this bill. And that, even before we had the opportunity to dispose of the texts and therefore to know what they were dealing with in practice. The result of the races: many speculations, many counter-truths, voluntary or involuntary, have been formulated. This has led to great uncertainty, many fears among workers and within companies in Belgium. Today, when we analyze this workable bill, I cannot help but be disappointed. Disappointed because with every reform implemented by this government, some are trying to scare the population, the workers, the social beneficiaries, the pensioners, in disregard of the truth and the texts that are proposed. This attitude is not correct. First example: the week of 38 hours. Mr Delizée said that earlier: we were going to go to the week of 50 hours, it was to the one who was going to work as long as possible. Well, ladies and gentlemen, the 38-hour week is not buried, is not replaced by the 45-hour week or the 50-hour week, as some have said for months. Article 19 of the Act of 16 March 1971 and the 38-hour rule introduced by the Act of 10 August 2001 continue to apply. The only difference is that instead of recording the average over a period of one quarter, this average will now be recorded over a year, as is already the case for 1.6 million workers in Belgium, who do not complain at all. This annual reference may be extended up to a maximum of six years if the constraints of the Plus Minus Conto system are implemented. At the same time, the worker will be able to work more overtime if he wishes, in total, 100 hours. Thus, if the worker requests it in writing for a period of six months, he will be able to work more while being better paid and benefiting from advantageous tax conditions. This number of hours can even rise to 360 if a collective agreement agrees. In the end, more flexibility for companies which would be subject to a peak of one-off activities or which would experience an irregular activity in a structural way, but also more flexibility for workers who will be able to adapt their working time on a voluntary basis to layer it as close as possible to their family or private needs. They will also be able to better predict their organization of working time in the long term. The second example is training. I believe that this is one of the most laudable objectives of this reform. In fact, training is essential at the grassroots level but, unfortunately, it does not fall within the federal jurisdiction. Our society is constantly evolving and at increasing speeds. Workers must also be able to follow developments. Hence the importance of continuing to train on a continuous basis, even when you have a job. So far, companies had to spend 1.9% of the wage bill. Remember the complete failure of this measure that was implemented at the time by Minister Milquet. From now on, each employer will have to spend an average of five days per full-time equivalent per year on training, whether internal or external. All this will be regulated at sectoral and enterprise level and, failing this, the worker will be entitled to two days of training per year. Then there will be derogations for companies with less than 20 workers and exceptions for companies with less than 10 workers. In my view, this is an excellent tool for self-management of a professional career, a measure which, moreover, will not create additional costs for employers. A third important step forward is occasional telework. Regular telework was already well framed, but there was a lack of a legal framework for occasional telework. This one is planned today. The worker may make up for an unforeseen event (a sick child, an appointment with a plumber, etc.) and absent from work, while working from a distance. The key words here are trust, security and flexibility. It will now be sufficient for a collective agreement or a working regulation to provide for occasional telework so that it can be implemented within the company. It is a win-win approach that focuses on the responsibility of the different actors. The draft law on feasible work also establishes the principle of an indefinite temporary contract. I really do not understand the criticisms that have been made by the opposition. The aim is not to generalise the use of temporary work for an indefinite period, but rather to provide greater legal and financial certainty for workers in the temporary sector. The interim party who subscribes to the measure will, of course, have obligations. It will have to accept the tasks entrusted to it, provided that these interim tasks comply with the contractual conditions. But above all, the worker will have more rights, because he will receive remuneration even when he is between two missions, which was not the case before, and he will have seniority and social rights. This is, therefore, an important step forward for those people who were in this very precarious system. I do not understand the opposition's criticism of this major social advance. The points I have addressed so far are part of the common base and, as Mr Delizée said, there is also the menu. I'm coming, starting with the career account. I sincerely welcome the introduction of this system, which will allow all workers to save days off and overtime for the time they wish to breathe a little or to be able to reconcile their private and professional lives to the best of their ability. It is a magnificent tool offered to workers, which will allow them to manage their own careers. Flexibility, but also accountability: we rely on the ability of individuals to take charge of their own destiny. It is quite contrary to the paternalistic approach that some continue to adopt in this House. Only workers in sectors that have adhered to the principle will be able to benefit from the opportunity offered by the career account. Here we give the social partners the freedom to take decisions that are important for the establishment of the system. The second part of the menu, or the reforms that will be implemented if the social partners so decide, namely the reform of the group of employers. This system already exists in France, has proven its worth and is very effective. However, today he was not sufficiently well established at home. The system is adapted to create many jobs through employer groups. The third element of the menu concerns part-time work. This is simply a request from the Group of Ten, which was submitted to the previous government. It was finally the Michel government that put it into practice. The objective is clear: to simplify and modernise part-time legislation. In order to spare you the list of technical changes, I shall mention only one: the one concerning variable hours. The opposition had, on this element, issued a catalogue of horrors. Actually, that won't be the case. Employers will have to warn workers under flexible working arrangements at least five working days in advance and this time-limit makes it very logical for the worker to be able to organize himself personally. There is also an update on floating schedules. This is a very common practice, set up in many companies but has never found a legal basis, despite repeated demands from the Group of Ten since 2013. The Michel government manages to set the parameters of the system by settling, for example, the question of registration of presences or the question of the recovery of wages in the event of unscheduled hours. But the undeniable advantage of this system is that it allows a certain flexibility to be offered to the worker who can modulate the hours of start and end of his benefits himself, at his best convenience, while respecting the prescriptions defined by the company. Here too, the worker is trusted by giving him more flexibility. Fifth point of the menu: the extension of the leave for palliative care and time credits with reason for care. Palliative care leave is increased from two to three months and time credits for care are increased from 36 months to 48 months, or in some cases to 51 months. With these measures, the government demonstrates its attention to the most difficult situations of our fellow citizens, sometimes facing difficulties in their privacy. The opportunities available to them to cope with them are being increased. It is about allowing people to take care of a loved one who is sick or at the end of life. This is something that I cared about, Minister - and I have had the opportunity to ask you several times about this - e-commerce. You will not be surprised that I am delighted, because for many years the e-commerce sector has been locked up by too rigid legislation on night work, which prevented it from developing at the same speed as in neighbouring countries where all jobs in this sector are created. There is no job creation at home because of this rigidity. Finally, the government is introducing a derogation allowing these companies to work at home under normal conditions. It is any benefit for workers who will be able to find employment in Belgium rather than in our neighbours. It is true that we can regret its lateness, but I think we can make up for the time lost as a result of this progress. Before concluding, I would be remiss if I did not address the last part of the reform, which comes from my colleague Sybille de Coster-Bauchau's proposal: giving leave days to colleagues with a seriously ill child. Here too, there have been many criticisms: "This measure would put pressure on colleagues to give their leave" or "private people do not have to replace the public" and many other comments. I will simply reply that the free and anonymity of the gift will be guaranteed and thus prevent any form of pressure. Above all, I retain from this positive measure its generous and human character as well as its empathetic aspect since it allows a colleague in difficulty to receive days of leave, given anonymously by his fellow workers. I therefore thank Mrs de Coster-Bauchau for having had this excellent idea.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-23-54-plenair-ip159x.u133	Mr. Clarinval, Mr. Delizée wishes to interrupt you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-23-54-plenair-ip159x.u134	Are you done?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-23-54-plenair-ip159x.u135	No, I was about to close!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-23-54-plenair-ip159x.u136	Mr President, I prefer to speak when he is finished.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-23-54-plenair-ip159x.u137	It's what you want!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-23-54-plenair-ip159x.u138	Is that the paternalism you're advocating, Mr. Clarinval?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-23-54-plenair-ip159x.u139	Mr. Clarinval, you're staying at the perch.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-23-54-plenair-ip159x.u140	Reread our text, you will see that we have included accountability and trust in the worker. We certainly did not show paternalism. I can assure you. In conclusion, Mr President, I would like to point out that our labour legislation dates back to the early 1970s, almost half a century ago. The world in which we live today has fortunately evolved. It had therefore become essential to be able to adapt to our environment, both for companies and for workers. This is precisely what we are doing through this project on feasible and manageable work. We do so while preserving social dialogue, since, for each aspect of the reform, we ask that the social partners be able to give their opinion and conclude collective labour agreements. I had already had the opportunity to say that during the debates in committee, and I wanted to repeat this to you: it is essential to be able to restore the competitiveness of our companies. That is the main objective of this government. This competitiveness obviously requires a reflection on the cost of labour. But other considerations are taken into account: training, the cost of energy, etc. Unfortunately, as far as the Walloon Region is concerned, these themes are in the hands of another government. It is time for the latter to take steps in this regard to accompany the process of re-creation of competitiveness in Belgium. In any case, the federal government has taken on the task, not only through the tax shift, but also through the reform presented to you today, thanks to the reform of social security that we will examine in fifteen days, and also through the reform of 1996. It is a comprehensive package of measures that all go in the same direction: to restore our competitiveness so that we can support job creation. Through this job creation, it is the safeguarding of our social security that is ensured. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, you will not be surprised that the MR Group and I will enthusiastically support this very fine reform.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-23-54-plenair-ip159x.u141	Mr President, I am going to be somewhat upset by the enthusiasm of the speaker and his colleagues and, if you will allow me, to make a few comments on behalf of the family of'some'. I am one of the "some" who have expressed some criticism and others. First observation: you say "the title is rebarbative".
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-23-54-plenair-ip159x.u142	I gave you that.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-23-54-plenair-ip159x.u143	I think you are too hard on the title proposed by the Minister: "Werkbaar werk" is veel beter dan "kwetsbaar werk". And "manoeuvrable work" is much better than "minable work". I don't really have any problems with the French title. I'm just saying the title doesn't say what it's about. This is the maximum flexibility, boss version. That's what I said in the gallery.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-23-54-plenair-ip159x.u144	It's caricatural. This measure is balanced.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-23-54-plenair-ip159x.u145	Mr. Clarinval, you'll reply later. As in committee, you said that we are telling a lot of things, and even anything, even before we get the text, and the truths. You did not use the word "caricature" which, in my opinion, is in the list of words that you have to say in this kind of debate. You have forgotten the term "caricature" to describe the expression of the opposition that made a serious analysis of your text. I didn't intervene until I had the texts. Now we have the texts. However, I would ask you to ask the workers, and to read the report again, what the social partners have said. They expressed concerns and criticism. It is not just the family of "some"; many families ask questions about this project. That's my second point. On annalisation, it is already possible. I didn't say otherwise. I'm saying this project is making it easier, there's going to be a lot more annualization situations. That's what I've been blaming. Third remark. Fourth point, the "More Minus Conto", it's really tiny as a remark since it's not going to be useful! Several colleagues have asked the minister if there are any requests today. It is a specific system for the Audi plant in Forest, very specific to the automotive sector. Minister, you have given no answer, you say it's on the menu. The "More Minus Conto", one can put it on, but, a priori, it will be of no use. Fifth point, training. On 1.9%, I don't think it was Mrs Milquet who invented this. I have been hearing about the need for employers to spend 1.9% of the payroll on training for 20 years. It must be recognized that over the years, legislatures and ministers, this goal has never been achieved; it was a pious wish. However, in recent years, a sanction had been introduced into the law, but that sanction had been quashed by the Constitutional Court. Without entering into the technique, it is perfectly possible to meet the remarks of the Constitutional Court, which the government does not do. Instead, it introduces a system of which it praises but which does not guarantee the individual right to the training of each worker and that is what we have challenged. It is perfectly possible to introduce sanctions and to respond to the observations of the Constitutional Court on this point. The sixth point is the temporary contract of indefinite duration. I haven't talked about it, but for us, it's a contradiction. I recall that it has been twenty years since employers and trade unions discussed this problem without ever agreeing. I simply note that the government endorsed Federgon's thesis - the Federation of Temporary Employment Enterprises. Since social consultation had not given rise to agreement on the subject, the government was sinking it into the bill. I'll finish with the leave donations. Rather than hearing a caricature of the opposition's comments on the subject, I will repeat our point of view. We think generosity is very good. If people want to donate a day off, it's good. But we think solidarity is better. We believe that a comprehensive solution is needed for all families, especially mothers who face this very difficult issue of great dependency, whether they are a child under the age of 21, as foreseen in the project, or a child aged 22, 23 or older! I would like to point out to Mr Clarinval that the social partners, trade unions and employers, have considered this measure inadequate and superfluous. Other leave arrangements can be applied rather than your system that uses a sense of generosity. I note that the government is not implementing the status of close caregivers. A basic law exists, but we're trying to take a few measurements. On several occasions I have asked the Minister for Employment, Mrs De Block and even Mrs Sleurs - without result, since I did not expect anything from her and in all misfortune something is good! – and I always wonder if the minister will put in place a real status for all families, not for those who will have the chance to have colleagues who will give them a few days off. We must help those families who are exhausted by the question of great dependency. That is what we want, we must not ask workers to be responsible for what should be a societal burden, taken into account in the context of solidarity.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-23-54-plenair-ip159x.u146	Mr Clarinval, do you know how many times you have said the word "competitiveness" in your presentation? I didn't do the count, but it was pretty impressive. Don't be ashamed of your ideology! You defend the increase in flexibility, which is an employer demand, in order to increase competitiveness. It's at least a clear speech. But do not tell us that this increase in flexibility is a demand from workers. The representatives of the employers' organisations said that these measures were good but that more would be better! On the other hand, the representatives of the trade union organisations were clearly against this increase in flexibility. Do not tell us that workers are seeking such flexibility. In your view, in applying this flexibility, what should be given priority to family life or increasing competitiveness? To remain logical with yourself and if you are not ashamed of your ideology, you must respond 'competitiveness'. In any case, the employer will decide and if the worker disagrees, he will be dismissed. Sometimes I feel like you're a little ashamed of your ideology. Don't say it's a worker-friendly project; just say that the bosses are interested in this project and that everything that benefits the bosses benefits the workers! This is your ideology, stay natural and do not lie about the demands of workers and trade unions on this flexibility. They are clearly opposed to it and they have said it and repeated it.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-23-54-plenair-ip159x.u147	My colleagues Georges Gilkinet and Wouter De Vriendt will speak more completely earlier, but I take advantage of this little exchange to give my opinion. Mr.Clarinval, what strikes me in your speech and in the way in which you announce the progress of this bill is that you insist on the worker's choice in the amendments you propose. In the text, however, the worker's choice is particularly limited, since it will each time be the result of negotiations with the employer. In that case, there is no choice. With regard to the charitable donation of days of leave between workers, you are in the process of postponing a responsibility of organisers of the working relationship, whose policy should take care of, on the actors – employers and workers – and on the workers between them, who will have to organize solidarity when they need help or days of leave. If they really had a choice, they wouldn't have to bet on that gift of days off. I agree with Mr Delizée's statement. For a very long time we have been waiting for the recognition of the status of close caregiver, which could meet important needs in a wide range of workers. Yet this recognition still does not exist. You say you promote e-commerce, which will stimulate night work. Have you read the studies that show how much night work, shiftwork has an influence on workers' health? We are taking steps to minimize health care spending, to ask workers to stay longer at work and not to be absent more than a few days for illness. And at the same time, you are creating working conditions that will weaken these workers, who will be more often ill and risk being excluded from the labour market. As far as acting is concerned, you are surprised that we do not welcome this measure. It has a positive element, which meets a concern of young workers, that it allows to present a contract to a bank to buy a house. This is impossible when you only have successive fixed-term contracts, without knowing what tomorrow will be done. That's the only advantage. I think there was a way to meet that otherwise. The rest of the device again puts the worker in a situation where he or she will not choose. He will have to go from employer to employer with work schedules on which he will have no bargaining capacity since he will constantly change employer. This worker remains in a particularly precarious and difficult situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-23-54-plenair-ip159x.u148	I will try to respond to the various inquiries. First of all, Mr. Delizée, with regard to the family of "some", as his name indicates, you are not alone in this family. When I say "some have said that", it is not necessarily a socialist. He can be a comrade of the PTB, he can be a trade unionist comrade. You don't have a monopoly on the opposition! It's already a good thing. Second thing in relation to the title, I acknowledged that in fact, I found that in French "la travail faitable et manable", it was not necessarily the most evocative title. The only thing we have in common ends there. It's a little depressing as terms, but it's purely linguistic. The counter-truths, the slogans, I didn't say there would be a 50-hour week. However, some have said so. Not some, but some have said so. You said earlier that it was the 45-hour week. You said it yourself! That's not it. That's not true! The 38-hour week remains the norm. On average over a year, there may be periods when we will work a little more. But in an average, in good mathematics, there will also be periods when we will work less. For those who want to, there will be extra overtime. Overtime is on a voluntary basis. You know that very well! It's called an average. Instead of being on a quarterly basis, we are on an annual basis. I didn't use the word caricature, but I think I should have!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-23-54-plenair-ip159x.u149	Belgium is a country of great flexibility as long as there is an agreement between the social partners. What the Minister has done with your agreement is to reduce the need for agreements between the social partners. In fact, this is what makes flexibility and the use of overtime much easier. It's the reversal of the cascade. You no longer need collective labour agreements, with labour regulations. We know how this is going in the company! They say to the worker, "You accept this, or it's the door." What do you want the latter to have as an alternative? That is the answer to the first question. Yes, flexibility was possible with the agreement of the social partners, and that is what is being undermined. That is primarily why we are challenging this bill. Second: who do you take the bosses for? It's like the workers. Bosses, there are good ones, less good ones, and even bad ones. Some employers may not play the game. We would like to prevent them from having an attitude towards their workers that would really call into question the quality of employment. What you are doing is working against what was a flagship for us in Belgium: the quality of the job. That is why, in OECD standards, we are one of the countries that were previously the most rated in terms of productivity. Because of the quality of the job, we had a very high productivity. You're breaking down the quality of the job.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-23-54-plenair-ip159x.u150	Mr President, I totally oppose Mrs Onkelinx's remarks. She says that the bosses, when there is a dispute, or a worker disputes, say, "You take the door and you leave." That's not how it happens in a company. There is consultation, respect, and things have never happened that way. I hate these caricatures, which don't fix anyone. They undermine the social climate that is important in any company and in the country.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-23-54-plenair-ip159x.u151	I assume our colleague will say that, for example, to the workers in Caterpillar. They had an excellent employer, but he could not do otherwise. Are you going to say that? But at last! We're not Bisoun Bears, anyway! It is known that some employers play the game and run businesses that are truly citizens, and for whom respect for workers is extremely important. It's obvious. But there are others who have nothing to do with their workers and the quality of employment. Indeed, in that context, workers must continue to be protected.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-23-54-plenair-ip159x.u152	I think that Mr Friart is very ill placed to boast the qualities of the bosses because Mr Friart, as employer of the communal staff of his commune, brings in, in the event of a strike, the bailiffs and the police to break the strike and impose periodic penalty payments. If this is the model pattern for Mr Friart and for the MR, it is clear that distances are even more distant than I thought.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-23-54-plenair-ip159x.u153	I recall that in the 1960s and 1970s the PS, through a whole series of cooperatives, occupied a lot of workers, workers in breweries, bakeries, grocery stores and the PS liquidated all these people with one trait. It lasted two years. And all these people have lost their jobs, without any consideration. That's how the PS was doing at that time. Today, he no longer has the opportunity to show it because he no longer has all these companies. He liquidated them when they had to be liquidated. He didn't do anything better than what Caterpillar does today!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-23-54-plenair-ip159x.u154	Mr President, if I may, I would just like to say, contrary to what Mrs Onkelinx has said, there is a balance in this text. Of course, competitiveness is being increased. And I assume, you know, Mr. Van Hees. If there's someone who often says competitiveness, it's me. So that's no problem. But this text also allows for much more personalized use of its working time. Some workers in companies want to start their day a little earlier so they can finish it earlier. It's the floating schedules. Others are interested in working more in the summer, as there is more work in the summer, and possibly taking an extra week off in the winter. This exists and will be possible through this bill. It's as simple as that. It's not possible today. Much better guidance is given in this text. That is where the second answer to Mrs Onkelinx comes from. We come back to the fact that there are a whole series of negotiating beacons that are planned with the social partners that will come back in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-23-54-plenair-ip159x.u155	Mr. Clarinval, don't pretend not to hear what everyone tells you. In the event of a conflict between the employer and the worker on the subject of flexibility, for example if a worker has to keep his children and this conflicts with the needs of the company, what flexibility will prevail? The flexibility of the employer or the worker? Of course, that of the employer! I'm listening! Which one will take precedence?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-23-54-plenair-ip159x.u156	I'll answer you. Thanks to this text, today occasional telework is allowed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-23-54-plenair-ip159x.u157	That's not what I'm asking you!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-23-54-plenair-ip159x.u158	Well, I do. We will be able to respond to such problems, Mr. Van Hees.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-23-54-plenair-ip159x.u159	What flexibility will prevail? Who will decide, the worker or the boss?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-23-54-plenair-ip159x.u160	You're talking about conflict situations. In conflict situations, all right.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-23-54-plenair-ip159x.u161	It exists!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-23-54-plenair-ip159x.u162	But we are putting a whole series of legislation in place to give each other more opportunities. That's why the text is...
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-23-54-plenair-ip159x.u163	You don't dare answer. That's clear. The answer is so obvious that you dare not answer. (...): But no! You don't understand!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-23-54-plenair-ip159x.u164	I'm gonna finish answering the various inquiries. Mr Delizée referred to the 1.9% problem of Mrs Milquet. I agree with Mr Delizée that it was not Mrs Milquet who created this standard. We agree. On the other hand, it was Ms Milquet who had sanctioned all sectors on average, which had not reached the rate of 1.9%. As a result, companies that had given more than 1.9% of training to their workers were punished because, on average, the sector had not done so. That is why the Constitutional Court has broken this text. It was simply unfair. Today, the new mechanism is more flexible and offers solutions based on the number of workers. He's a lot fairer. I simply said that Mrs Milquet had seen her text broken by the Constitutional Court. It was not her who put this standard in place. We find a solution to that.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-23-54-plenair-ip159x.u165	Mr President, I am not sad, but hearing you is sometimes a bit desperate. I did not react to previous interventions. But Mrs. Milquet's name was repeated ten times in fifteen seconds. As a personal fact, I'm just going to intervene on this. There was indeed a ruling of the Constitutional Court. This judgment concerned the aspect of sanctions. It is with pleasure, dear colleague, that we can exhume the case and in particular the law concerning training, the obligation to train and the aspect of sanctions. As far as I know, dear David, a law has not yet been made by a minister alone or passed by a single parliamentary group. The Court ruled. This bill, the latter or another, had to be adapted to the decision of the Constitutional Court. But as for Mrs Milquet herself's responsibility, I will reply that, on this, we have a collective responsibility between several parties. I have no problem with this aspect, I voted for it. If there is one who is convinced of the issue of training throughout the professional career, it is me. There's just a concern about training in your bill, it's about companies with fewer than ten workers. The particularities of these enterprises must be taken into account. Subjecting them to the same diet as the others, it's not right. All enterprises with fewer than ten workers that work well do informal training. This type of training within companies should also be enshrined in the law. This particular mechanism of informal training, which is different from the training of larger enterprises, should be foreseen. Finally, I would like to know, in relation to the measures that are being taken, have you projected what this will represent as a percentage of the wage bill?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-23-54-plenair-ip159x.u166	We fully agree. What I said was that Mrs Milquet took a royal decree when she was Minister of Employment. I'm sorry, maybe I said his name three times. Perhaps I should have said Mrs M or what I know not to mention her name. But she's the one who took this royal decree. The royal decree issued by the government and implemented by Minister Milquet has been quashed by the Constitutional Court and the government responds to it. I do not see what is offensive to Mrs Milquet to say that.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-23-54-plenair-ip159x.u167	It is a royal decree taken by a government as a whole, of which the MR, dear colleague, was a member. Perhaps if you had been more interested and attentive, when this text was passed in ikw, then in kern and then in the Council of Ministers and you had known that the companies would be punished unfairly, I dare hope that, as a right-wing party, you would not have, within the government – and we can talk about the ministers who were then part of it, if you wish – allowed this matter to proceed. So I'm just telling you this, Mr Clarinval: instead of doing politics in a gloomy way, at the pâquerettes, a political mode, you should admit that one government should have found another mechanism. All the parties involved agreed. Today, the system needs to be corrected. I don't have a problem with that.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-23-54-plenair-ip159x.u168	Mr Clarinval, I just wanted to add this. That is true, you are right: the Constitutional Court has delivered an opinion. The measure had to be corrected, as did the previous government. You're right. It was therefore important to find a system of sanctions that was not unfair. The downside is that you have developed a new one that has no sanctions. That's what's wrong. Again, when we had acquired for the benefit of the workers and the employers, because the training benefits both, a system that required continued training, you come back with a device that no longer gives any obligation in this respect. This demonstrates, once again, that this bill is unilateral, as it is only in the direction of employers without any counter-party. That's where the bastard hurts. In short, you are not responding to the Constitutional Court that considered the system unfair. You're just sweeping the sanctions. However, a right without sanction does not exist. Consequently, there is no longer a right to training for workers.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-23-54-plenair-ip159x.u169	It's very simple. Before, there was an unfair system – it was the Constitutional Court that said it – today, there is another system on which you do not agree. We can talk about this for a long time, but everyone agrees that the Constitutional Court has broken the old system as worn by Minister Milquet. As far as acting is concerned...
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-23-54-plenair-ip159x.u170	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-23-54-plenair-ip159x.u171	This is the work of the Court. She breaks and then we fix it! Since it irritates you that I'm talking about Mrs. Milquet, I'm going to stop. I feel like you're nervous.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-23-54-plenair-ip159x.u172	Mr President, Mr Clarinval, I am not irritated when it comes to Mrs Milquet. And if we don't talk about it either. But we have to get things right. Under a previous government, we say, "It's a sectoral sanction." If I have a company that meets the 1.9% standard and unfortunately is in a sector that does not respect it, this company will be penalized. And so the Constitutional Court is asking the government to correct this point. It's not complicated to do. It was just a matter of deciding that if the company meets the standard, it is not penalized. So we are setting up another system, we are forgetting sanctions - which means that it will remain a pious wish - in a system that does not guarantee the individual right to training. So we say that, in such a bill, it is perfectly possible to correct the judicious and justified remark of the Constitutional Court. What you don't do! You're sweeping the problem!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-23-54-plenair-ip159x.u173	The new system imposes obligations. Everyone has to respect the law. It's a system that's fair this time and won't be broken by the court. He's very good. You called the minister. I'm not a minister. Mr. Minister will answer you. I don't know how to calculate the wage bar...
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-23-54-plenair-ip159x.u174	The Government may ask for the floor at any time.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-23-54-plenair-ip159x.u175	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I hope to have a chance to replicate later. I would point out that an interprofessional agreement of the Group of Ten has already set out the objective of spending 1.9 % of the total wage mass on training. Fortunately, many sectors are doing more than those 1.9 %. Now that is for discussion, but I hope that everyone will have confidence in the social partners, all the more so because, as Mr Clarinval said, we are giving them the opportunity to choose from the menu at sectoral level. This does not apply to the objective of training; it is contained in the pedestal. It's not about a judgment, by the way. The Council of State referred a question to the Constitutional Court concerning the sanction introduced. That Constitutional Court held that the penalty cannot pass the test of the principle of equality. That preliminary ruling of the Constitutional Court is still before the Council of State. We believe that the introduction of the principle of training days represents an important step forward, both for workers and for employers, because it shows that training is indeed provided for. It is therefore no longer a question of 1.9 % of the total wage mass, but of concrete training. Of course, everything can be discussed again in plenary, but we have already discussed sanctions in committee if the training obligation is not respected. Well, I have more confidence in the debate at sectoral level and certainly also at enterprise level if there is insufficient training or not. What is the lesson to be learned when it comes to imposing a penalty in the event of non-compliance with the 1.9% target? The lesson is that if it was already applicable, it would not have been the right way to deal with it. It is the responsibility of the government and myself to come up with a new system. The resolution of the sanction mechanism, a mechanism that the Constitutional Court has not detained, is not, as far as I am concerned, a solution. What we are proposing is more positive. In fact, it bothers me that the debate ignores the fact that the government offers the social partners the opportunity to choose at sectoral level from the menu what measures, for example the granting of leave, they introduce or do not introduce. This is not sufficiently highlighted as an added value. Minister Hansenne used to experiment in this field. You will find that is the right way in our digitized economy and working environment. I respect the situation and the principles of the opposition, but I hope it recognises that we are proposing a menu next to the pedestal. I hope that this menu will also be extended by the social partners at interprofessional and even sectoral level. I am open to adding more elements to that menu. It is very surprising that we are discussing here, while companies are currently applying what we are proposing here in the law. It concerns both the granting of leave and palliative leave. This is already being applied in companies! That's very positive. So you are discussing something that is already being applied in companies. I can give examples.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-23-54-plenair-ip159x.u176	I would like to talk about indefinite acting. I thank Mrs Gerkens for her intellectual honesty. She said earlier that, thanks to this system, a person who was previously in an acting situation could get a loan. We would like to tell those people who used to run missions, sometimes with off-peak periods, that from now on they will have an indefinite contract (CDI). Of course, it will be a CDI in the interim sector, which remains a separate sector. But this is a step forward for these people, a plus, with greater security. I dream that everyone will have a CDI and that acting in this country will no longer be useful. Unfortunately, temporary work is still needed. And this text is an undeniable step forward for this sector. Mr Van Hees, I assure you, I am not at all ashamed to use the word competitiveness. On the contrary, it is a term that I believe is fundamental to the future of our country. If we do not ensure our competitiveness, we will not ensure our social security. Mrs Gerkens referred to the problem of e-commerce, as did Mr Gerkens. Van Hees. I note that the Netherlands already has a very efficient nighttime system. I am very little concerned about its undemocratic nature or about the possibility of Dutch implementing laws that are contrary to human rights. Mr Van Hees, I would prefer to align myself with the Netherlands in this matter rather than with a country that is dear to you, such as North Korea, where night work is also very common. [[Applause]] I am surprised that you say that the situation in the Netherlands is not correct.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-23-54-plenair-ip159x.u177	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-23-54-plenair-ip159x.u178	Yes, you did talk about night work! Excuse me, I must have confused myself with someone else. As far as leave donations are concerned, this is an option. People don't have to, and if they don't, nobody will. It is an anonymous process, which allows for greater generosity and is in addition to the social system in place. Personally, to create a legal framework to allow this additional ability to apply, I do not mind. And this is not to counterbalance a failure of the public authorities. Mr Delizée, if I sum up your reflection, we should stop giving Televie because this money should be given by the public authorities and that is not the case. It just has to be said that it is a plus! I see this as a plus that is offered and that will not cause me any problems. Ladies and gentlemen, after this rain of speeches, I thank you for your interest.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-23-54-plenair-ip159x.u179	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the draft law on workable and manoeuvrable work has been and will be debated and hopefully take the last hurdle here today. I express myself with caution when I say that this bill caused a lot of commotion in advance. This is neither the place nor the time to analyse all the misunderstandings that have arisen about this bill. It is clear, however, that the Belgian is awake from his job, from the way he can and can perform his job and from the place that this job occupies in his life between hobbies and a family. There is a balanced final text which, before it was established, was widely consulted by the social partners, by the people on the ground. I'd like to pick out some elements. First of all, it is important to reiterate that the 38-hour working week does indeed remain. A lot of confusion was created about that point, whether consciously or not. It is therefore important to reassure everyone once again. Only for the distribution of the number of weekly hours during a full calendar year will the scheme become more flexible. Point, different line. Secondly, a number of other issues were included in the draft law. For example, there will be a number of adjustments to the training effort. We have just heard a debate on this between Mr Clarinval and a number of other fellow Members. This new proposal will in any case greatly improve the training effort of firms. The current system, based on the mass of wages, was unworkable for various reasons. We can therefore be satisfied with the new impetus to devote on average five working days per employee to training. This is a concrete revolutionary change that will ensure that continuing training will be much better promoted in the future. Of course, we will have to wait and see what results will be achieved in practice and whether all employees will be able to benefit sufficiently from it, including in more operational functions or in all types of SMEs, and how enforceable that is. We will certainly have to make this analysis in order to be able to take further steps in the labour market over time, with the focus on continuing training.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-23-54-plenair-ip159x.u180	So let us give this system a chance and evaluate it after a certain period and adjust it if necessary. There will also be a framework for occasional telework. This was already common practice, but it did not provide the necessary legal certainty for employers and employees. It was not clear what their rights and obligations were. Through the new legal framework a certain flexibility is granted to the employee, without everything being possible, think of telework in the event of strikes. Brakes are built in there too. Part-time work is simplified, with respect for social dialogue, as is already the case in the non-profit sector. The employers' groups will provide interesting opportunities for companies to recruit people together, while they would not be able to do so separately or could not afford to pay. Much has already been said and written about the new e-commerce regime. All beginnings are difficult, but we can see that Shoes Torfs has already finished the rush with a first agreement on night work. That's a good example. I also refer to a number of optional aspects such as career savings, which are close to my heart and on which I have already tabled a legislative proposal. The draft law on manoeuvrable work provides an impetus, but the social partners will have time to develop their own framework. We hope that this will give people additional opportunities to take their own breathing breaks, in addition to all the leave systems already provided for, but always with a motive. Those who save their own time or money should also be given the opportunity, regardless of any motive, to slow down for a while if they feel the need to do so. This will undoubtedly improve the feasibility of careers. In addition, leave schemes are being extended. That can't be exposed enough. Palliative leave of one month becomes renewable twice by one month. From this year on, you can also ask for 51 months of time credit for care. Ladies and gentlemen, I have just said that the draft law will hopefully take the last hurdle today. By that, I mean the present legal text itself. The most important thing is still to come, and the Minister has just made an allusion to it. For the most general aspects of this draft law, a social consultation procedure is provided for. This is certainly the case for the optional elements. Is this draft law a draft with which we impose everything from above on employees and employers? No. All the fellow Members who described doomsday scenarios here are deluding, because the concrete proposals will be made in the social dialogue, not in the doomsday scenarios they come up with. It will be done in concrete terms in the field, in consultation. This text is an instrument, a means of better serving the people in the workplace. It is the employers and employees who will be able to apply the various aspects of this bill by mutual agreement and after negotiation. Or perhaps not apply it to those points which they do not consider desirable together. As a policymaker or legislator, we only facilitate. We define certain limits to protect the weaker party, but at the same time we know where our role ends, especially from the point where social dialogue in the field can do useful work. We therefore wish the social partners every success in applying the new possibilities offered by this draft law. We hope that in practice these opportunities will have the best possible effect on the workplace and on the challenges facing workers today. In any case, Minister, you will have our support for this bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-23-54-plenair-ip159x.u181	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I will intervene briefly from my bank. Indeed, part of my speech was already in the report I brought here earlier. I do not want to repeat endlessly what other colleagues have already said, particularly Mr Demir and Mr Vercamer. The draft law before us is the result of an honorable compromise, after many considerations and discussions, public and government. Of course, the first issue to be considered was that of the annualisation of working time, on which the Minister took the lead in the spring of last year, but on which a lot of myths have arisen. I heard the same speech on the French-speaking side just now when Mr Clarinval spoke. Apparently, the members of some opposition parties are still in a world of living, which I believe is an apology for saying 'the 19th century', in which working time legislation is still based on the factory where people blow a whistle at 8:00 a.m. and at 5:00 p.m. they think that the economy consists only of that kind of enterprise. That is, of course, complete ridicul. In a modern economy, there are many young, new, enterprising people who deal with their staff in a completely different way. They go, bottom-up, in consultation with their staff. It doesn't impose how it's done from above. A merit of the draft law is that a number of parts that facilitate, without going too far. What I do not understand from the debate with Mr Onkelinx and Mr Clarinval, which I have just heard, is what is actually the great revolution of the 38-hour working week. Finally, it is a small reform in Article 20a of the Labour Act, whereby, firstly, we reform the small flexibility somewhat and allow the calculation of the 38 hours standard to one year and, secondly, it can also be introduced into labour regulations. If I have understood correctly, I think I understand correctly, from the point of view of practice, it is not easy to introduce an employment regulation. This is done in consultation with the staff, who can make comments for 15 days. It will only go according to that procedure if there is no syndicated delegate in the company. It is therefore about smaller companies, where the employer can introduce the annualisation in consultation with his employees. Another mistake I have just heard and to which I continue to be disturbed is that flexibility can be chosen by an employer in one day. No, it remains the case that seven days in advance we have to work out the schedule that will apply. How can it be said that an employer will suddenly be able to ask an employee to stay there in one day and that the employee will end up in a dramatic scenario in which he cannot pick up his children? I hear such examples keep coming, while that is complete nonsense. It remains the case that we must be aware in good time when we have to work on which roster, in accordance with the annualisation. What involves a little more flexibility is the chapter on slipping hours, but that also involves efforts by the employer. The system of sliding hours, for which we now have a legal framework, after the many years in which the system has existed without framework, means that the employer allows his employee to choose when he starts working, when he takes his break and when he stops exactly. There's a certain fork in there. The employer will therefore have to allow his employee a certain degree of flexibility. In return one can indeed go up to 45 working hours without overtime. This is already being applied in some companies in modern sectors. This may have happened counter-empty, but now it will be possible within a neat and well-established legal framework. In my view, the subject of training efforts has already been sufficiently addressed. In fact, we are doing little more than what was agreed at the time in the social dialogue, in the Group of Ten, namely 1.9 percent of the wage mass. It is up to you to decide how this training effort is to be implemented and how exactly this calculation is to be carried out. All space until execution is present. I am also very pleased with the chapter on career savings. We have already had an opportunity to discuss this with the Minister in plenary. There are already pilot projects to this effect in many companies. I mention Colruyt, which already has a fairly successful system, to the satisfaction of the company and to the satisfaction of the employees, in order to save time and possibly convert certain premiums into time. That is the modern world, ladies and gentlemen. Employees are also asking for this. Well, that is what the bill now contains. A number of leave systems are being extended. For me, this is the result of a balanced compromise. It is not surprising that the social partners give divided advice on this issue. In the end, it shows that it is an honorable compromise for employers' organisations to note that they have not found their will in it, whereas the workers' representatives also say so. So we are perhaps close to an honourable compromise, which our group supports.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-23-54-plenair-ip159x.u182	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I did not attend the committee meetings. Unfortunately, our group leader could not be here today, so I shall make the speech for her part. I happen to know a few things about the draft law on workable and manoeuvrable work. Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this is a very important dossier. Why is it an important file? Because this file is also very closely related to the pension file. Pensions and their affordability are linked to long-term careers, with workable work, with people who can work until the end of their career for a decent wage. This is very important for the financing of social security, which is a major challenge with the ageing population that is coming. So it is one of the most important pillars that this government should realize. It is also an important element because we see that labour is devalued very strongly today. We also see a strong dualisation in the labour market, with jobs for people who are highly skilled, have a lot of autonomy, are very flexible and are able to develop themselves very happily. On the other hand, the service economy in particular shows that many people are modern slaves, with little autonomy and a very high workload, with all the consequences. That is why such a draft on workable work actually needs to look at these two perspectives. There is talk here of confidence, of modernism, as Mr Lachaert calls it. In fact, he says that we are conservatives. On some things we really want to be very conservative, namely when it comes to ensuring a decent, good and quality job for everyone. I'm very conservative in that. I want that for everyone, not only for the individual but also for the values in our society. If such proposals are made, they must be tested against those two realities. So proposals can be good, if all partners play the game fairly and correctly. Everyone of us knows that many people do, but everyone also knows that a number of people do not, and one should be able to control and sanction them. The MR colleague, who is now on the phone, has said that we must have confidence and that the time of mistrust is over. Honestly, when I look at the reality around me, I keep getting suspicious. After all, I see that globalisation, internationalisation, migration movements and social dumping, among other things, must lead us to cultivate and control a healthy distrust. It was insinuated that sp.a. and the unions would have spread lies about the present design. We would have been guilty of disinformation. Ladies and gentlemen, let me be clear: the draft law does not just contain negative points. We have never put up with the fact that, for example, we welcome the legal framework for the sliding timetables. However, we also listen to ordinary people, workers and servants, who tell us what is going on in reality. That is what this is about: about people who want to earn their living and also want to have a private life, a private life of daily tasks combined with some relaxation, which they want. A lot of people say they can't do it anymore, they can't do it anymore. Well, then I see it as our job to stand up for them. The fact that a hyper-flexible labour market has an impact on workers' health is not disinformation but reality. This has been demonstrated in a lot of research, medical articles and publications. I also notice that talking about flexibility is a very different matter for those who live in a very well-equipped house, with automatic heating and with a lot of devices that support them. This flexibility is much more difficult for those who have to get up at 4 a.m., still have to light a coal or wood stove and have little means to live comfortably, who have no car and have to use public transport. Flexibility must therefore also be considered in the context. The fact that there is more absenteeism when work becomes unworkable is not disinformation that we spread, but simply reality. It is sufficient to read the papers of Securex and SD Worx about absenteeism, to note that these service providers and employers are increasingly putting their hands in their own bosoms and also recognising that reality. Colleagues, the draft law on workable work would be the implementation of the round table on workable work announced with many poeha. We have seen a whole media show in which great expectations were created. Today we must decide and see what becomes reality and what remains. I must say that all workers who still had some hope will now remain hungry. The National Labour Council also received only thirty days to look at this important dossier. Minister, I don't think that's serious. The retirement age was raised in a fingernip, without explanation. Ladies and gentlemen, we are sitting together today to decide on the work and working conditions of many citizens. We will also decide what value we want to give to this work. The draft law would be a promising draft law, on which the social partners could then build, in order to strike a balance between flexibility, tailored to the employee and tailored to the employer and the company. Minister, the trade unions said earlier that the draft law is primarily a bill tailored to employers' needs. You'll say the unions always say that, but I'll give you interesting reading. On De Tijd's website I received the message three or four hours ago... is the front page of tomorrow. You know the company. You bought an ad there. That ad contains a whole article, it's actually an interview with two employees of Partena. Ladies and gentlemen, we are still discussing this draft law today, but it says in that advertisement that it has already been approved, that it is already a reality. Furthermore, the representatives of Partena welcome the fact that the text meets all their aspirations and that they will finally be able to do whatever they want without union interference and control by the Social Inspectorate. That's what it says, I'm not saying that, it's on that website. I'll show you later. I think that's gonna cost a lot of money anyway. The employers are now saying it very clearly. And we are not allowed to ask any questions about that. The workers are being individualised. It's been said a few times before. If one is a strong person, one can do a lot. If we have competences and abilities that everyone wants, we have a lot of power and we can negotiate well. But if you are an average cleaning woman who works with service cheques, then your situation will be much less rosy. It is precisely for those people that we must also ensure that there is workable work that they can carry out up to their retirement. In the future it will be 67 years. I would like to discuss a number of points. The interim contracts. In future, if the temporary agency has a desire, it can conclude a contract of indefinite duration with a temporary worker. They will, of course, select. They'll pick the best. The best of the tens of thousands of people working for a whole year with successive day contracts. It is therefore possible to ask whether this is workable work. Okay, the people involved will get a little more stability and a monthly income. But they will have to make heavy sacrifices for it. They will be sent from one workshop to another, because the basic arrangements will of course be very vague. They will probably receive a mobile phone, but that can be both an advantage and a disadvantage, because one must always carry it. People get the feeling they're hanging from a coat rack. If the employer has a desire, he'll take you off, or he'll leave you hanging. They can be notified at any time of the day to get to work immediately, without having a prior view on an hour schedule. In this way people can hardly plan their lives and feel that they are permanently in standby mode. I know people can be laughing about that. We are in politics and we often find ourselves in such situations. We may be tough on that, but some people are very hard on the fact that they cannot plan their lives or make agreements. Or if they've made agreements, they have to cancel or change them all the time. Then one gets the burn-out about which so much has already been said. The second point is overtime. Workers can knock for many days, even weeks in a row, up to 11 hours a day before they can take the first catch-up rest. Indeed, the current internal overtime limit of 78 overtime per trimester is raised to 143 hours and the social partners are given the opportunity to increase it. I wonder who's willing to do that. Do you know one person who wants to work 4.5 months, 11 hours a day? Can you see it yet? You keep saying that this is voluntary and with the employee's approval. The reality is that a lot of people are afraid to lose their jobs and therefore even accept this offer. Even if some people want to show themselves in a way that is harmful to their health and well-being, labour law is also there to protect people from themselves. Almost weekly surveys and articles on the well-being of people at work appear today. Research after examination, determination after determination, is still ignoring reality. Yesterday there were articles about burn-out. Recently, the Service's three-year Workability Monitor showed that as many as 280 000 people have symptoms of burn-out, an increase of a quarter. In addition, according to the Flemish Workability Monitor, the number of employees with a workable job has decreased significantly compared to 2013. In 2016, the employment rate is 51%. Today we are again at a low figure. What's the answer to that? Enter more overtime. 790 000 people, Flemings, are under too much stress at work. The reduction in the level of workability measured in 2016 is largely due to developments in the field of work stress and the lack of reconciliation between work and private life. If you ask me for my personal opinion, I think that mobility problems, both on the road and on public transport, are an additional major stress factor. If one has children who are to be taken from kindergarten or nursery and one plans one's day very well but one is in a traffic jams or the train or the tram does not come, then it causes immense stress. They're underestimating that. It is not just about work and private life, it is also about the bridge that needs to be built between them. Mr. Secretary, I see you shaking. However, you have the power, the power and the network to... yes, Flemish matter, but CD&V is also there. Isn't that right, or have I forgotten? Your federal partners are in there, too. Do something about this, not only for workers but also for employers. I believe they are also asking parties. Then maybe things will progress a little faster. What's the conclusion? A Flemish on two thinks his workable is pleasant. So we're gonna have to start shooting. As far as the granting of leave is concerned, that is, of course, sympathetic. However, should we now do so in this way? Yeah, it's a choice. I mean, I work and I have leave days. I have a good colleague, a friend of mine, or a friend, who comes to ask. Then it is almost impossible to refuse. That's good for once, but that's not a system, is it? I think that's a shame for collective regulation. That's the undermining of social security. I am a little more optimistic about the employers' groups. It is a good initiative in which it has been shown, for example in Limburg, that this can work positively. I know that a Brugs company, Bombardier, that makes trams and trains, once asked because they had temporarily fewer assignments. If this is handled properly, this will enable positive business to be done. However, we must ensure that these good initiatives, for which the regulatory framework of the pilot projects was already established in the previous legislature, are not abused. That is why we would like employers to be able to join only one group, especially if you step away from the user-pay principle. I therefore regret that you have abandoned the user-pay principle. This also applies to the interim in order to avoid that external workers in the company would carry out the same work, but for wages and conditions of employment other than the permanent employees of that company. With what is now going on, you will have to be very attentive to some form of internal social dumping. We have often made our point about e-commerce clear. The big players, the giants in the e-commerce head, not only ask for night work, which you simply ignore, but they ask for cheap night work. That's the problem. They want night work on dumping wages and student wages. Look at Germany and the Netherlands. That it could be different has been proven at Shoes Torfs. An agreement has been reached for night work in their e-commerce department. Wouter Torfs said that the conclusion of an agreement is only possible if there is a serene climate of consultation and respect for mutual agreements, both inside and outside the company. In addition to this anthology there are also some painful findings. Occasional telework is a good initiative. It is also a little difficult to gain the confidence that people are asking for if they are to be able to challenge the right to strike at the same time. However, we are pleased that the amendment on minimum youth wages has been withdrawn. We had already made some calculations ourselves. It was an insoluble clumsy. The fact that you saw that, too, deserves a compliment. Minister, you like to talk about freedom in work and in the labour market. Walk with me. We will visit some people who have had flexible work on them for several years. They will be particularly happy to tell you what being free They are often completely trapped in unpredictable and unplanned jobs and tasks and also constantly feel the fear of unemployment and of being dismissed. The rapid evolutions are also not to be underestimated. Things are changing, but much faster than they used to be. This is a major source of stress for many people, including in our own administrations. Changing software programs are very often creating burn-outs. Minister, you are proposing measures for flexibility for employers and workers, but they are often very much aimed at employers and not at employees. Please be honest with me. When you talk about adapting the labour market to economic realities, I tell you that this reality means that the big fortunes are rising spectacularly, while wages are stagnant or falling and the quality of work, especially in our country, will fall if the plan continues. Could you please adapt the labour market to that economic reality?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-23-54-plenair-ip159x.u183	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, Mr Willaert has followed the work in committee, but she has been excused for illness. For my group, I will confine myself to a number of general reservations about this draft law. Of course, the theme of workable work is very important. It has been under discussion for years, also in the context of discussions on raising the retirement age and so on. Rightly so, because there is a problem in our country. The Flemish Workability Monitor indicates that close half of the Flemings think his or her workable is workable. This draft law is now on the table, and so the logical consideration we have to make is whether the draft law is a solution to the problem of insufficiently workable work. The problem also worsens because in 2013 more people thought they had a workable job than they do now. This is not the only measurement that was performed indicating a problem. There are a number of others. Minister, your objective is to increase the number of high-quality jobs to 60% by 2020. If, of course, we stick to 50% or 51%, I think this will be quite difficult. There is also a strong increase in the psychological fatigue of people in their job: people experiencing work stress, problematic work stress. That number increased from 31 % in 2004 to 36.6 % in 2016. This is the second research report at hardly a month when the same conclusion is reached independently of each other, in particular that the workload in Flanders, in our country, is increasing. There are, of course, several reasons for this. Everything becomes more complex, more unpredictable, the bar is higher for everyone. Many companies, for example, are trying to do more with fewer staff to achieve efficiency gains and make all kinds of savings. I think this is part of the explanation. The number of people it considers feasible in its current job by working until retirement is also in free fall. A number of percentages are also available: 67.2 % in 2013, 59.6 % in 2016. An increasingly large group needs adapted work. The number of employees who consider it feasible to work until retirement, but only if adapted workable work, has increased from 26.6 % in 2013 to a peak of 36.6 % in 2016.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-23-54-plenair-ip159x.u184	This means that if working conditions do not change, more workers will not actually be able to continue working until retirement age. On the positive side, if there is more workable work, more workers would like to make the effort to stay on for longer. My first question is whether your draft law provides an answer to that. We didn't expect miracles. It is a process with many layers and phases and also many responsibilities across different competences. However, we had hoped for the beginning of an answer, a strong signal, which shows that the federal government is serious about workable work. What proposals could you have launched? Firstly, you could have introduced some levers to optimize the organisation in the workplace, such as incentives for companies to review their work organisation together with employees and adapt it to new needs and contexts. Secondly, you could have set goals and provided a framework to reduce the share of debilitating jobs. Thirdly, you could have empowered the prevention services to focus on workable work. Fourthly, you could have focused on strengthening workers' competence, such as investing in lifelong learning and training. Such measures are needed to reverse statistics, to stop the number of burn-outs, to get and keep more workers longer at work. Unfortunately, what is your bill about? The draft is mainly about working time: flexibility, flexibility, leave arrangements. In a moment, I will go into that in more detail. Of course, these things are not enough to really talk about workable work. I think we should also do something about work organisation. The federal government also has a number of tools and powers in this area. For the sake of clarity, we are not opposed to flexibility in working hours on their own. A job of nine to five, every day, I think, doesn't want the majority of Belgians anymore either and is hardly feasible anymore. In the field of telework there will be more autonomy for the employee, who can decide where and when he works. Working time shall be cancelled. These can be interesting levers, provided that they can be negotiated between the social partners at an equal level. I must say, however, that you are removing the negotiations on this from the sectors and leaving it to companies to reach agreements, or on an individual basis. That can go well sometimes, why not? With the guarantee to do so at sectoral level, it was more concrete and made sure that all the social partners came to a stronger start to negotiate with each other. Workers now need to fold more to the rhythm of the market. We do not really understand how this should improve the balance between work and private life. Where does your bill say that a divorced mother or father will have the space, if he spends a number of overtime a week at peak times, to slow down during school holidays or will that depend on how assertive that person can negotiate in the company, not at sectoral level apparently, but at company level? How exactly will you prevent the father from saving time in a family with children, while the mother cannot take extra hours because she has to take care of the children? It is good that you indicate that you want to ensure gender balance in the measure, but I do not see how that can really be guaranteed by the present draft law. Apparently, there'd be a working group. A working group is always good, but we are particularly curious about the results and the time limit for achieving results. It goes without saying that we will continue to follow this closely. Will you tell a single mother with two part-time jobs that she is getting better from the fact that her timetables need to be laid down less in advance, that she has to wait until one day in advance before she can arrange childcare, because she is not sure whether or not she will have to work? For the sake of clarity, there are also a number of proposals that we would like to support. A legal framework for occasional telework is a good thing, as is the reform of the employers' group, a legal framework for sliding working hours and the extension of palliative leave and time credit. Who could be against that? However, as far as the time loan is concerned, you are going for the minimum. After all, the coalition agreement states that the motivated time loan would be increased by a maximum of 12 months. The word'maximum' is important there, because we land at three months. Does that fall within the promise of a maximum of 12 months? Yeah, it's not 13, it's three. Allow us to say that this is a defeat and that we should have done better there. Moreover, it remains clear that carers are worse off than before. Anyone who has to care for a severely ill disabled child, a child under eight years of age or a sick family member, will now receive a number of months: three months. At first, however, the allowance for the ordinary 12-month time loan was abolished. The caregiver took advantage of that, too. It is a common practice to make use of it, because the family care systems themselves were not sufficient. In other words, if you abolish the 12-month ordinary time-credit allowance and then add three months to it, those concerned still have nine months less than before in the previous situation. I return to my comments on workable work. Mr Minister, workable work must be primarily about the work itself and not about when work is being done. That is and will remain our main commentary on the bill, which is a missed opportunity. The proposals should be a response to the question of making work more workable. However, the proposals are indicative of the one-sided way in which we in Belgium often continue to think about workable work. The measures are mainly about leave and working hours, rather than about the work itself. Then why is the bill called workable work? After all, almost all the measures in the draft concern the question of when we should not work and what we should do, when we do work and, above all, how we should work. The result is known. The workload will continue to increase, even after the adoption of this draft law. More and more workers are falling ill for a long time. You don't give a cure for that. The main emphasis of a programme on workable work should be on what needs to be done during working hours. This is about how people fill out their jobs, about the increasing workload, about participation, autonomy, teamwork, competence management, adapted work, diversity and so on. In the next phase, of course, working time can also be more optimized, which you are trying to do here in the draft law. However, you are skipping the first step, and you are interfering with the second step. Research also shows that it is first necessary to ensure that workers can continue their jobs for longer. In the first place, it is not about whether they have much or little leave, which is also important, in order to maintain a job. However, I do not find in your draft law any proposal to improve the job content or the workload of the workers themselves. Workers do want to work longer. However, they wonder how they should do that. A stressed employee is not the same as an unmotivated employee. On the contrary, people want to do their job well, but they get too few handles to take it into their own hands. As a result, the stress and workload build up and there is more fallout and there are more sick. Policy should remedy this and consider a way to keep the workload manageable and acceptable in that changing difficult context. How can employees be supported to give their careers a new turn of events? How can we support companies to make that change? We find very little in this regard. The government obliges everyone to stay longer at work, and should therefore ensure that everyone can stay longer at work. However, the draft law does not even provide an answer. That is why our group will not approve it.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-23-54-plenair-ip159x.u185	Mr President, ministers, ladies and gentlemen, should the organisation of work be modernised? My answer is, of course, yes. This is essential for the competitiveness of companies, but I also believe that workers may be seeking flexibility to better reconcile their private and professional lives. However, they also need job security and job security in a similar way. As you know, we have tabled our own work modernization project with an identical approach to different measures, but different in terms of the balance between private and family life and work life. It is also different from the daily realities of workers and employers. Mr Minister, I support, in principle, a series of measures that are part of our own proposal: family time credits, the career savings account, floating schedules, training throughout the professional career, occasional telework or groups of employers. We have argued for different modalities for some of these measures, but as the stakes are significant, these measures are positive. Although it contains positive measures, your bill appears – and I regret it – as a missed date with the social partners, families, older workers and businesses. Yet the workers and the companies had their eyes on you. As a first step, you have, at least one can say, aroused a great enthusiasm and real expectations. However, recognize that a number of them have been disappointed. You missed your appointment with the social partners. In this context, I was astonished at how your bill cuts their grass under their feet! A number of ongoing projects could have been more successful if the social partners had been given more time. In my view, they remain the best placed to achieve solutions that meet the needs of the ground and that would have been more in line with reality. I will take three examples with the occasional telework first. In addition to the fact that the social partners have had the grass cut under their feet, these provisions apply – in any case, that's what you provided for in your bill – in the absence of a collective agreement by 1 February 2017, a time limit that already belongs to the past. I find it particular in a bill to say that we are counting on consultation between the social partners, but on the condition that they have done so in the past. Let's recognize that it's singular! Another example is the possibility of increasing the internal limit to 143 hours. This already exists, but today it requires negotiation and agreement at sectoral level. Your project therefore goes beyond social consultation. Admittedly, the conclusion of an agreement at sectoral level is not always easy. I agree widely, but it seems to me that a compromise between a sectoral agreement and nothing at all was possible. For example, it could have been considered to move this consultation to the level of the company. The third example is night work in the e-commerce sector. The social partners have not been able to agree on this point so far. I think that in such a delicate matter, we must indeed weigh both the economic stakes and also – admit it – the impact of night work on the health of workers. I'm not saying it's not feasible. I myself worked a lot at night in the non-market with the guards. At the same time, waiting and obtaining agreement from the social partners on this in view of a rather difficult balance between interests that are not converging, I think it would have been better than imposing it as it is by law. Miss yourself with the social partners. Then, miss your appointment, minister, with women and families. If I say so, it is because you have still given extremely little – I am polite, I should probably not say at all – attention to the situation of women. Just look at how good you feel about sweeping the impact measure to which you are subject – it is a legal obligation – by not taking the trouble of measuring the impact even more on women who work part-time or who, for example, are alone in the care of the family. I pleaded in committee that the impact on women should be assessed. You did not want to translate it into law, but you made this commitment orally. Of which act. I hope you respect him. Overlaying measures is difficult for families. Actually, you're making three diapers in lasagna. There is the layer of annualization; you will tell me that it already existed, and that is true. There is the layer of the 100 overtime, and then the layer of the 143 hours that go up to 196. But triad and superposition can have a considerable impact on some workers, especially women. Instead of making theory, I'm taking an example. A woman works 40 hours a week. In the event that the maximum time limit before recovery is increased to 168 hours, as the project allows, this worker would have to take seven more hours per week, so one more day, and in practice, an hour and a half to two more hours per day, for 24 weeks, so six months, before being able to recover. This represents long months during which single women, but also parents, would not be available in the evening for their children. The difficulties are all the more important for single-parent families. Here, let us recognize, the balance between privacy and professional life is not respected, and cases like this, Minister, will arise. Of course, this example will not affect 100% of people, but it will happen, and you have not wanted or been able to take it into consideration. It is true that the bill presents advances in family time credits. We have to say hello to them. It should be recalled that the draft law, in practice, will not apply to this matter, since a convention has been implemented between the social partners. That being the case, we could still go further. Flexibility says, in my view, flexibility in both directions. In itself, I have no problem working on more flexibility and flexibility in working time, provided that flexibility in the connection between private, family and working life is also realized. In this respect, I have been advocating for a long time so that we can spread credit, not to increase its duration, but to distribute it, to make it more flexible, as you ask for for working time, and thus to take account of both family and professional realities. I also plead for a specific leave of absence for close caregivers and for extended adoption leave. Mr Minister, on this last point, we are going to set you up for the next budgetary adjustment. You are committed to achieving progress in this area. We'll see what happens, but I'm counting on you. As far as families are concerned, it is claimed that occasional telework is a positive thing. We have tabled texts on this because I would have liked telework to be combined with the right to disconnect. With the development of technologies, especially smartphones, emails invade our lives and there is no real clear line between work and privacy. On this issue, I find it interesting that employers and workers can discuss the issue of the right to disconnect, not by imposing it by law but by introducing an obligation to be able to discuss it within companies. This was set up by Volkswagen and BMW in Germany, by AXA France, by Orange, all major employers who were able to examine this aspect and who adopted company-specific modalities. This flexibility must be maintained, without imposing a model but by building it on the basis of agreements within companies. It is sometimes necessary in this area, ladies and gentlemen, to be able to provide safeguards because that is also the way to prevent burnout and stress at work as much as possible tomorrow. Social partners, women and families, but it is also a missed date with older workers. When you decided to reform the pensions, the government mostly veiled its face against the problem of the end of career and, if we add the fact of imposing the work in an even more flexible way but without the planning of career ends, it simply risks being counterproductive. You know that today we have a real shift from 55 to 64-year-old workers towards sickness and disability insurance. The aim, of course, is to keep people who are about to leave or who are experiencing difficulties in continuing their work at the same rate as possible at work for as long as possible. Qualitatively designing career ends and thus improving the working conditions negotiated for workers between the ages of 55 and 64 can, I think, lead directly to improvements, to a decrease in the transfer to disease-disability. This concerns a whole series of topics. It is true that these are not only federal jurisdictions, but also. This seems to me all the more crucial today because the promises you have made in the field of heavy trades are still pending, whereas the decisions on pensions and the tightening of pensions are decisions that have already been implemented. Finally, this project is also a missed appointment for companies. And I'm resuming UCM, a magazine from the Union of Middle Classes you know well. He said: "The Peeters project for the modernization of labour law, an unattractive tote." Let us acknowledge, Minister, that you are proposing a whole series of measures that are too complex for employers. Let us also acknowledge that with all these superimposed provisions, it is complex to manage for both employers and workers, but it is also difficult to control. One might also wonder how those provisions would be combined in practice. We are very far from the reality of companies. This is, in any case, the signal that employers wanted to convey. Since the work in committee, I have been interested in a few good readings. Minister, I have a nice little surprise for you. I'd like to stop for a moment on the annualization. I reminded the committee that your project was limited in scope since Article 20a already provides for an annualisation of working hours. It simply does not impose it on a duration with a reference of one year, but the current system allows this calculation to be made over shorter periods. And you decide to remove this option and generalize the principle of annualization. I told you what I thought in committee. Flexibility in relation to firms whose reality is sometimes different, by allowing shorter reference periods, was to the advantage of all, especially those companies which are undergoing production cycles. Getting solutions on the map is better than imposing a single model by law. I told you then that your choice was ideological. But since then, I have learned, with great interest, of a draft work currently being written, in which lawyers and academics are dealing with your bill. There is a chapter dealing with the amendments to Article 20a. Mr. Clarinval was talking to me earlier in the 1970s. I suggest he listen to me. Because the text you are voting on on annalisation, on the part of the reference period, restores the text introduced by a reorganization law of 22 January 1985 containing social provisions. I have learned that this legislation was amended by the Act of 26 July 1996 on the promotion of employment and the preventive safeguard of competitiveness. This piece of legislation was carried by someone you know well: Minister Miet Smet. For colleagues who do not know her, she is CD&V. As you can see, Minister Miet Smet's 1996 text already contained a chapter entitled "Annalisation". Ms. Smet's 1996 Act amended the original text so that the reference period would be set at a maximum of one year, but it could also be shorter, Minister. Do you know how Miet Smet justified it? She said: "We are not going to keep a period imposed by law. We will allow companies to choose the reference period." When I read this, I thought I read myself in committee. Yet I didn't know that story. I'm going to be honest: I didn't find that reference. It was passed on to me by lawyers and academics. I'm telling you, it really amused me. Listen carefully to what she said: "The aim of the working time provisions introduced by the above-mentioned law is to introduce greater flexibility in the organisation of work." I almost fell off my chair. In essence, what you are doing today is a step backwards, before the progress made in terms of flexibility in 1996. Modernizing the work, making it more flexible on this aspect, Minister, is going back to a 1985 text.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-23-54-plenair-ip159x.u186	Mr President, I would have liked to speak after Mrs Fonck, not necessarily on this point, but we have been hearing her for quite some time opposing the text and saying everything she thinks is wrong: 'It is bad for young people, for women, for businesses'. Anyway, he's bad for everyone. Why then, Mrs. Fonck, did the CDH abstain? Why don't you vote against this text, which is obviously so terrible? I hear a plea against the project, but – as if you were remorse – you abstain at the end. This attitude is somewhat surprising. I would like you to shed some light on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-23-54-plenair-ip159x.u187	Mr. Clarinval, I will enlighten you with pleasure. I have no problem, but you seem not to have listened to me. Indeed, at the beginning of my presentation, I cited the list of measures in this bill that we support. Just for you, because I can't help it, I'll take them back. So I quoted the credit-time... [[(...): (...)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-23-54-plenair-ip159x.u188	No? I quote them: family time credits, savings accounts, training, grouping of employers, floating hours, occasional telework. Resuming the debate does not bother me at all. I said at that time that I was not going to detail each of these measures, first, because we had the opportunity to develop them in committee, then, because I voted in favour of them and then because I made certain arrangements. I am thinking, for example, of training. As I said earlier, informal training for small and medium-sized enterprises must be welcomed and encouraged, because it is fundamental. If you want, I can elaborate on all these provisions. We voted in favour of all these chapters of the draft. Moreover, I do not mind asking for an article-by-article vote just now to demonstrate that we are going to vote for a whole series of measures. I guess you're gonna retaliate to me that you believe me on word. So, if that would reassure you, I will not change my vote by an iota. If we did an article-by-article vote again, I would vote in favour. All these measures I have just mentioned, Mr Clarinval, are also part of the texts that we have tabled – both the motion for a resolution that is attached, but also several bills that we have introduced and that reflect that proposal. It seems logical to me, therefore, that I present here the points that ask me, the amendments and alternative proposals that I have tabled in committee. Don't be impatient, Mr. Clarinval, I'll finish. But since I had this little story about your former colleague, Minister Peeters, and this still has to amuse you a little bit, I thought I would allow myself to remember a few memories here. The imposition of a reference period of one year rather than allowing shorter periods, by credit card, for businesses, dates back to 1985. You have today detrigued the progress that Minister Miet Smet had made, rightly, in 1996. Colleagues, Minister, I plead that, with regard to temporary contracts of indefinite duration, we should be able to resolve the question of the salary of the intermission period fairly quickly. Beyond the fact that it would have been useful to leave more time to the social partners, these temporary contracts of indefinite duration will only bring positive progress and greater legal certainty if this question of the intermission wage is resolved. We are in favour of groups of employers. However, it would be good to move forward on the user pay problem. Finally, I urge that we make progress in simplifying labour regulations and that we rest on the question of updating the Royal Decree of 10 February 1965, which designates persons in a position of management or of trust. Let us recognize that it absolutely must be modernized. And I can only repeat the importance of moving forward on the assessment of the impact on women and families, on family care leave and adoption leave, and on the right to disconnect. Ladies and gentlemen, you have therefore understood, since Mr Clarinval was kind enough to recall that we abstained in committee, that we will abstain here today with a positive vote of support on certain measures which I will not recall but which are in line with our positions. On the other hand, given some complexity, insufficient attention for families, lack of ambition and certain measures that we would have wanted more adapted to the reality on the ground and therefore more operational, we will abstain from this text.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-23-54-plenair-ip159x.u189	Mr President, I should like to speak on behalf of Van Hees.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-23-54-plenair-ip159x.u190	Mr. Speaker, Mr.Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I will not repeat the whole debate, but I would like to make the history of this bill. The first project was released in mid-July, during the holidays. Minister, you were hoping to avoid a storm. However, under pressure from social movements, your bill has been postponed several times. It is interesting to note that some measures are appropriate. You made the first concessions compared to the announcements you made at the beginning of April, because we have been hearing the expression werkbaar werk for a long time. For example, the minimum period of five days to announce the working hours of part-time employees is maintained and women who make up the majority of part-time workers are therefore left with the few days they had to organise themselves. Another concession is that the possibilities of part-time workers' bonuses, which the minister wanted largely to see removed, are maintained. The pressure of women's organizations and trade unions has borne fruit in this process. While our ministers thought they were experiencing a calm social return on 29 September, they were facing a large mobilisation of more than 60 000 people in the streets of Brussels. On October 4, the initiators of the petition "Law Peeters, no thank you!" hand over the more than 31,000 signatures collected to the Minister's office. On 7 October, a large number of companies in the metal and food sectors strike in the country. As part of the budget discussions, Minister Peeters released a second version of his bill in mid-October. It is approved by the government as a whole. The generalised annualisation imposed on all sectors is abolished. The article intended to facilitate very flexible working hours, for weeks up to 50 hours, was deleted. This is a further step backwards on the part of the minister and the government as a whole. These new concessions have been torn off by the pressures of the entire social movement, the pressure of the trade union movement, these strikes, these demonstrations, the pressure of citizens, the pressure of the associate through the petition I have already quoted, the pressure undoubtedly also from certain voters on the CD&V, those who have a bit of social fiber and who, moreover, are increasingly turning away from your party and who believe less and less in your speech about your party, the CD&V, as the social bulwark of the government. This speech goes less and less. It was interesting, I think, to note the concessions that the government had to make in relation to the social movement. Nevertheless, this project remains largely unbudgetable. If there have been concessions, it will not be said that the draft could be accepted or even abstained, in order to resume the debate that has preceded it. The government has removed the most spontaneous angerful measures, but has maintained a series of measures that are particularly dangerous for workers and very beneficial to employers. What remains unacceptable? Almost everything. The annualisation of working time will place workers even more under the employer's will and the needs of the company. The additional 100 hours of overtime, for many people, may reduce the week to 40 hours without any form of collective bargaining or control. The reform of part-time work will mean that the maximum number of overtime hours which will no longer have to be paid will increase from 39 hours to 168 hours, resulting in a loss of wages and a huge financial bleed for the 800,000 part-time workers who are mainly women who are already struggling to make ends meet. These people will touch even less. This werkbaar werk law, work that can be done, remains unacceptable. This is also the view of the common union front. Mr. Clarinval said that the workers were defending this project. In any case, their representative organisations do not defend it. I quote the opinion of the common union front: "The draft law is presented as the result of the "Customized Work" round tables held during 2015. Instead of thinking about how work can really be made more feasible, in a period when the number of burn-out cases, work-related stress victims and people with long-term disabilities is increasing exponentially, and work is becoming ever more intensive, the round tables have finally become a project in favour of greater flexibility in working hours and tailor-made working hours for enterprises, i.e. so-called manoeuvrable work with, for important parties, circumvention of social consultation." In short, what was announced as feasible work became something else. Let us remember the context in which you came with this werkbaar werk, Minister. It is alleged that this was a small compensation for the disruption of pre-pension and the raising of the pension age. What was supposed to be a compensation for the world of work is a second slap. We had the first slap of the pension at 67, and as compensation, a second slap, that of this werkbaar werk, of this increased flexibility. I will not repeat everything that my colleague Raoul Hedebouw said during the debates in committee, but I want to speak on two specific points. The first is the simplification of part-time work. The second point will be on floating schedules. First point: this measure is the relaxation of the measure concerning part-time work, allegedly because the administrative part would be too complex. The opposite is true. Belgium has 800,000 part-time workers, mostly women. To date, the legislation specified that a part-time worker must be informed of his or her schedule at least five days in advance. But this will change: Minister Peeters has drafted a bill that will allow employers to communicate the actual work schedule only 24 hours in advance. In addition, the draft removes the obligation to indicate all possible timetables in the working regulations. Instead of specifying exact hours and days, flexi-contracts will remain vague in terms of working hours. It states, for example for a store, that: "The worker is likely to have to work Monday to Sunday between 07:00 and 20:00." The worker will no longer work six hours a day, but "between three and nine hours". Those with variable hours will not work 20 hours a week, but 10 to 36 hours. The three-month average must always be 20 hours, but the weekly schedule may change from week to week. Finally, the worker will receive less for hours worked in addition to the normal working arrangements. Today, a part-time employee who has a variable schedule begins to receive a surcharge if he or she works more than three hours a week in addition to his or her normal contract. The government, with this project, wants these hours to be counted over a month or a quarter in the event of a variable schedule. In concrete terms, it will take more than 12 additional hours per month to start receiving a surcharge or 39 hours per quarter in case of variable hours. That's not all. The additional hours worked at the request of the worker will no longer be considered as overtime which may give rise to the payment of a surcharge. A lot of part-time workers want to be able to work more hours. Their wages are very limited, so we understand this demand. It will therefore be easier for the employer to present any additional hours as being carried out at the request of the worker and to no longer have to pay him a surcharge. The government is therefore putting in place mechanisms that will lead to lower wages for workers who already have very low wages. He particularly attacks the wages of women who, as I said, I repeat, are the majority in this situation. In addition, with increased flexibility, it makes it almost impossible to have another part-time job in addition to the former. Who works part-time is locked in this part-time. In short, these "yoyo" contracts mean more flexibility, more stress, less family life, less pay. The second point I want to address is the floating schedules. This is the legal framework for introducing flexible working hours on the basis of a collective labour agreement or a working regulation. What surprises us here is that for the implementation of this flexibility of working time, an adjustment of the working regulations is sufficient and that no collective labour agreement requires that this be negotiated with all the unions in the trade union representation. This measure is therefore clearly used to bring trade unions against each other. It also undermines solidarity, for example, between workers and employees of the same company who have very different working conditions. However, even more serious, it is stated in the explanatory memorandum that, if a worker cannot recover in time the excess hours worked under the system, "he will no longer be entitled to rest and payment of his excess hours worked, except in the event that those excess hours were worked at the employer's request". If it's at his request, he won't be able to get them back or touch them. This clearly opens the door to unpaid work. Long live free work, Minister! I also quote from the comment made by the Frente Commune Syndicat: "This is a real scandal and it is resolutely contrary to the principle that a worker must be paid for the work he has done." For all these arguments and all the other arguments put forward in committee, the PTB will therefore vote against this draft.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-23-54-plenair-ip159x.u191	Mr. Speaker, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this bill is a missed opportunity to modernize our labour law. The latter no longer responds to contemporary issues. It needs to be adapted to new forms of work and new demands in terms of quality of life and competitiveness. There is also a need to become more part of the European concept of flexicurity. But instead, you are presenting us with an ideological project. You retain the improvement of competitiveness, not the improvement of quality of life. In flexisecurity, you mainly hear the term "flexi". In short, this project primarily meets employers' expectations. Of course, it has some notable improvements for workers who take care of their loved ones with the extension of the care credit and the palliative leave. But, overall, your approach is unbalanced and your work is mostly manageable. This imbalance is all the more disturbing because it is part of a reform package that reinforces its impact on the daily lives of workers. Your government is asking them to work more flexibly and to work longer. But nothing is planned to improve the quality of life and well-being at work. The difficult jobs are not yet clearly defined. But we already know that they will have to be managed within a closed and insufficient budget envelope. There is no provision for those who will have to cumulate peniblity and flexibility. Nothing is planned to better combat stress at work and burn-out. There are no plans to mitigate the disadvantages of flexibility for parents who will inevitably face childcare problems. Answering that the bill is balanced because it allows for a better reconciliation of work and private life by giving a legal framework to already widely available floating hours and occasional telework is a bit short. As for career savings, many issues still need to be addressed in order to appreciate its added value. It will have to prove itself, especially in its articulation with greater flexibility and professional mobility. It is premature to say that this will be an opportunity to better reconcile private and professional life. The modalities are not yet clearly defined. The portability of saved leave is our main concern because occupational mobility has become commonplace between sectors, statutes and trades. Either the worker will be able to pay for the saved days, or he will be able to take them to his new job. If everyone is in good faith, no problem. But what if the contract with the former employer is broken in an unhealthy or even stormy climate? All social partners wish to have the time and flexibility to develop a cross-sectoral system to avoid disparities and too many portability problems. The Council of State recommends that these procedures be incorporated into the law in order to guarantee legal certainty. But section 35 of your bill provides that the initiative belongs to the sector and, failing that, to them. We believe that it would have been better to follow the views of the social partners and allow them to regulate the arrangements at cross-sectoral level and then only to sink the system into a law. More generally, social consultation could have led to a project that was better balanced between the expectations of workers and those of employers. But, as the workers' representatives denounce, the 2015 round tables on tailor-made work have become a project in favour of greater flexibility with, for important parties, the circumvention of social consultation. You didn't leave the latitude to find balance. In the introduction of the NTC's opinion, they declare by mutual agreement that they will only be able to present their expertise if the notice period allows them more time. Thirty days! They had 30 days to deliver an opinion on your voluminous bill that has so many implications for the daily lives of employers and workers. The social partners have pointed the expectations to the consultation that your bill presents. A sentence in the report sums up what appeared at the hearings. I quote: "The trade union organisations note that the bill flows into the law a number of elements that were previously left to the discretion of the social partners. Where social dialogue can still play, it is expected to take place at the lowest level and even in some cases, replaced by individual negotiations." We are not opposed, as a matter of principle, to consultation within the company on the grounds that the worker would automatically lose vis-à-vis the employer. We are convinced that their interests can meet. This consultation is even essential to me. However, it must be part of a sectoral and inter-professional framework. You're removing room for manoeuvre in the area. When you set the reference period at one year for working time, you deprive them of the possibilities to better adapt flexibility to their specific characteristics by determining a shorter reference period, whereas it is currently possible. Moreover, your answer to the question raised by the Council of State about the incompatibility of this provision with European Directive 2003/88 is not convincing. This Directive imposes a maximum weekly period of 48 hours and sets the maximum period for calculating four months. The social partners may increase the reference period to one year, but in exceptional cases, for example for technical reasons. A Member State cannot do so. However, you do not hesitate to exclude the social partners in order to take the hand. You have also allowed night work in e-commerce without any consultation and short-circuited the ongoing negotiations in the field of telework. Your approach is surreal. You claim that you still allow the social partners the possibility of concluding a collective agreement, but you impose a deadline of 1 February 2017, otherwise the provisions of your draft law will apply. I would point out to you that it is 23 February and that at the moment when I am speaking to you, your text has not yet been voted on. You do the same with overtime. A collective labour agreement may derogate from your bill provided that it was tabled in the Employment CPS for January 30th. Of course, when the social partners are unable to reach an agreement, we must decide in order to modernise our legislation. All right! But, in our view, at least two conditions must be met. On the one hand, be sure that we have been through to the end of the dialogue. This is clearly not the case. And, on the other hand, to ensure a balance between the wishes of each other. That's not the case either. For example, with regard to working time, we believe that, since greater flexibility is required without a broad social consensus and flexibility has been negotiated, compensation must also be imposed. But your project doesn't include any. The social partners could have been asked to draw up a range of suggestions which would inspire companies and their workers: for example, a flexibility bonus or the introduction of ergonomie progress still possible in certain sectors. What we call compensation could, in fact, be an improvement in the well-being at work, as much remains to be done in this area. The current approach remains focused on health and safety. More and more employers are paving the way for other opportunities, such as sports activities, relaxation opportunities and staff services. Once a framework had been established, consultation could have led to individual or collective choices within companies. If the quality of life at work is not on the menu of your project, there are, on the other hand, elements of which we do not understand the usefulness. The "Plus minis conto" system, developed for the automotive sector in order to be able to calculate the week of 38 hours on average over several years, maximum six years, seems to be of no interest to anyone. It was only activated for Audi Forest. Workers' representatives have never been asked to extend this measure. The social partners do not see the usefulness of giving conventional leave to colleagues with a seriously ill child. To tell you the truth, neither do we! The objective is commendable, but other systems can meet this type of need, such as care leave, without having to depend on the willingness of colleagues or the size of the company that also has an impact. As far as training is concerned, it seems to us that your project could have gone further in order to guarantee an individual right that also benefits employers and the competitiveness of companies, so dear to your government when it comes to labour costs. The objective is formulated in terms of averages, on average five days of training per full-time equivalent. Companies employing between 10 and 20 workers may derogate from the provisions on training and firms with fewer than 10 workers are excluded from the scope of application. For others, the new system allows training to be organised through a new or existing collective agreement. Otherwise, it can be organised at company level for an "Individual Training" account. In the absence of these two instruments, the worker will be entitled to an additional two days of training per full-time equivalent. These two days correspond to the minimum that must be respected in the collective agreement as in the Individual Training Account. The target is five days, but no problem can be expected for two days. In addition, this is an average, so that some workers may not receive anything. Like the unions and the Council of State, we do not understand how we can talk about an individual right of training of an average of two days per full time. If this is an average, it cannot be an individual right. Moreover, the absence of sanctions makes the obligation quite relative. This lack of ambition for training is part of the broader context of your government's overall socio-economic action. This government wants to base competitiveness efforts exclusively on workers, by making them work longer, in a more flexible way, without specific measures for careers, or for their well-being, and by reducing the room for manoeuvre to calculate wages. On the other hand, other competitive levers are insufficiently activated or even operated in the wrong direction. This is the case here with training, but also, for example, with the cost of energy. You have increased VAT on electricity, and we have become Europe's champions of inflation, to the detriment of our competitiveness. The cost of services explodes and weighs on production costs. The federal government is disinvesting in scientific research, which is also a factor of competitiveness. We can only conclude, Mr Minister, that these are purely ideological choices, and we cannot adhere to them.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-23-54-plenair-ip159x.u192	Mr.Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we have debated this bill at length in committee, and it would have been unfortunate if we had not intervened in plenary. Despite this long debate, more than twenty hours in committee, as my colleague pointed out earlier, the government's position has not changed. That didn't surprise me much. In my opinion, this lengthy debate here will not change things either. Your position is clear and inflexible. Your goal is to deregulate our labour law to meet employers' demand for more flexibility. Once again, putting the effort on the shoulders of the workers in an unacceptable way. We're not going to repeat the debate. My colleague Jean-Marc Delizée has explained very well how your text ends the week of 38 hours to increase to more than 40 hours/week and even more in case of peaks of production. My colleague spoke about the added hours lasagna and the consequences it will have on family and social life, on personal and citizen projects, on holiday projects, etc. They're obviously huge. So I'm not going to go back to all of this, but, minister, working 45 hours a week, I wonder how single parents are going to take care of their children properly. This will add even more stress to people as we know that burn-out is exploding in our country and exposes many families. Ladies and gentlemen, this is not in the right direction. It does not make sense for companies' purchase orders to dictate the pace of workers' lives. Now, that's what you're doing. I fear that your reorganisation of work for the benefit of businesses alone will have negative consequences for the health of workers. This particular aspect will be the subject of my brief speech, as I have had the opportunity to do in committee. Studies. And first of all the evolution of absenteeism which is important. According to Securex, as I had the opportunity to say in committee, absenteeism has evolved considerably. For the 30-34-year-olds, long-term absenteeism increased by 21%. These workers of child-bearing age are no longer able to combine work and private life. I do not understand how longer working hours will help them. This finding is not new. Another study already showed that long-term absences had increased by 64% since 2008. This is a study of SD Worx. And that doesn't stop there. My fears grow when we know that the law will allow employers to impose 100 extra hours on their workers. Scientists, in a study published in the prestigious journal The Lancet, say that extended working hours increase the risk of stroke. This extensive study, which was carried out on 600,000 people in different countries, clearly shows that the risk of stroke increases in parallel with working hours. For those who work more than 40 hours a week, the risk increases by 10% and the effect is even more harmful for women.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-23-54-plenair-ip159x.u193	Minister, science is proving it. The solution is not to go towards a concentration of work through a massive use of overtime. As my college has mentioned, we must, on the contrary, open a substantive debate on the reduction of working time. At a time when our employment rate is lower than the European average, we need to think about a fair redistribution of work in our society and not a concentration on those who work overtime. There is nothing ideological about these findings. We are in favour of forms of flexibility if they are chosen. They already exist and are negotiated by the social partners. Minister, in order to reduce the risks to the health of workers, this reduction in working time should really be considered. It is in this direction that we must go. The Socialist Party offers solutions, including the four-day week without loss of salary and with compensatory hiring. I know this is a broad discussion; we need to modulate it. This reduction must be collective and practical on the ground, with a reorientation of some of the means towards this reduction in working time and the creation of compensatory jobs. This is a concrete proposal that would open up a real societal debate, unlike your bill. Your bill, clearly, goes wrong by dedicating the flexibility of workers to the detriment of their health, to the benefit of employers and in an unequal relationship; the worker is under pressure from the employer alone. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-23-54-plenair-ip159x.u194	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by thanking all the speakers in this plenary session, but also in committee meetings, for the exchange of views. I believe that this draft law has received a lot of parliamentary attention, including hearings. This will hopefully be concluded with an approval today. We have had an extensive exchange of views in committee with many questions and reactions. A comprehensive response was given to this. I take it that those answers were clear and that we know how one and the other feel about them. I would, of course, like to thank a number of Members for their historic work. I will not contact Miet Smet tonight but tomorrow morning to report that Mrs. Fonck quoted her. I think she will be very pleased with that. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to stress once again that the world is not standing still. Digitisation, globalisation, ageing, stress and burn-out have been extensively addressed here. These are no longer challenges that we need to prepare for, but realities. Reforming our labour legislation is no longer an option, but a must. It is no longer a policy choice, but our common political duty. Colleagues, this legislation brings our regulations into the 21st century. It's very important to all of us. We ensure, ladies and gentlemen, that anyone who wants to work at home because of a technician coming by or something else going on has a legal framework for that. We make sure that sliding hours are taken out of the twilight zone and there is a clear framework. We ensure that employees are well trained and able to participate in digital evolution. We make sure that people in quiet periods don't have to count down hours at their desks, but can go home and catch up on those hours when it's busier. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, this will give companies a chance to be more flexible. It'll give them a chance to stay more competitive. In a world where SMEs no longer compete, but the anonymous web shop on the other side of the world, this is very important. The social partners, ladies and gentlemen, I referred to this earlier, and have already reached agreement on the extension of palliative leave and care leave. In practice, things are already being applied that have been dealt with here today. Let me give you an example. In Nivelles, employees of a supermarket have already spontaneously granted a colleague seven weeks of leave so that the staff member could pick up her adoptive daughter in Colombia. In Limburg, an employers' group was set up last month, allowing companies to use the same pool of truck drivers. Shoes Torfs, the example quoted here, has already reached an agreement with the trade unions on night work for e-commerce. Nike continues to announce and carry out one after another expansion of his logistics and e-commerce activities in Laakdal. Ladies and gentlemen, the world is in constant motion. The social partners have already understood this, as have many SMEs and large companies as well as workers in Nivelles. So let us provide them with the framework to tackle this structuralally. Let us reaffirm our confidence in the social partners who work together in companies and sectors to find solutions in favour of the employee and the employer. This law offers them that. This law does not nostalgicly go back to the past that never existed, but looks hopefully towards the future. I would like to stress once again that we have had very useful and extensive discussions on this subject, with more than twenty hours of debate in committee, extensive hearings with social partners and many interesting discussions that have contributed to this law. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would therefore ask for the draft law on workable and manoeuvrable law to be adopted this evening, and I hope that you will do so with great enthusiasm.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-23-54-plenair-ip159x.u195	Is anyone else asking for a reply?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-23-54-plenair-ip159x.u196	Mr President, Mr Minister, I think we could still debate it all night, but that is not the objective. The minister responded quite briefly, referring to the committee's work and report. I just wanted to tell you, minister, that we do not share your enthusiasm or that of the majority for this bill. As far as training and sanctions are concerned, we have talked a lot about them. I will simply recall that the legal basis was Article 30 of the Law of 23 December 2005 on the Intergenerational Solidarity Pact, which gave rise to preliminary questions from the Council of State to the Constitutional Court. It was a law signed, among other things, by Mr Reynders and Mrs Laruelle. I mention it as a reminder, since there was a little controversy about who did what. On the other hand, I did not find Mrs Milquet's order in this dossier, which is indeed complex. I'm going to the sanctions. Instead of putting in place a system that forces recalcitrant employers to offer training, you throw the baby with bath water by promoting a more lax device. Therefore, you do not create a real right to training for every worker. This is our critical criticism in this regard. As far as acting is concerned, it is the employer's thesis that is reflected in the bill. If the workers' representatives objected to this mechanism of indefinite acting for so many years, it is evident that they had many reasons on behalf of the workers. This system represents a blank cheque for them. After signing it, they can no longer determine anything. In any case, it is the employer who unilaterally fixes the place of work, the conditions of remuneration and the hours of work. The worker no longer has the choice to carry out his duties. We believe that, if these companies can provide work, then these jobs must be transformed into real quality jobs and not into precarious contracts. Concerning occasional telework, which Mr.Clarinval also mentioned, a worker could request, for family or personal reasons, that telework be programmed, but in the end, the employer will always decide. The latter has a veto right and I find it a pity. There was a way to do better on this topic. Here are a few brief considerations! In any case, we certainly do not share your enthusiasm, minister, and our group will oppose your bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-23-54-plenair-ip159x.u197	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-23-54-plenair-ip159x.u198	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2247/6) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2247/6) The draft law has 80 articles. The bill has 80 articles. ******
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-23-54-plenair-ip159x.u199	******
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-23-54-plenair-ip159x.u200	The Conference of Presidents of 22 February 2017 proposes to the Chamber of Representatives the mandate of the members of the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry to examine the circumstances which led to the terrorist attacks of 22 March 2016 at Brussels National Airport and at Maalbeek Metro Station in Brussels, including the evolution and approach of the fight against radicalism and the terrorist threat, to extend until 30 April 2017. The Conference of Presidents of 22 February 2017 proposes to the House of Representatives to extend the term of office of the members of the parliamentary committee of inquiry to examine the circumstances that led to the terrorist attacks of 22 March 2016 at Brussels-National Airport and at the Maelbeek metro station in Brussels, including the evolution and management of the fight against radicalism and the terrorist threat, until 30 April 2017. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-23-54-plenair-ip159x.u201	By letter dated 14 February 2017, Ms Cécile Kruczynski announced that she would resign as a member of the Federal Police of the Supervisory Body on the police information from 28 February 2017. By letter dated 14 February 2017, Ms.Cécile Kruczynski announced that she would resign, on 28 February 2017, as a member of the Federal Police of the Police Information Review Body. The Chamber should therefore appoint a new French-speaking member of the Federal Police of the Supervisory Body to replace Ms Cécile Kruczynski. The House must therefore proceed to the appointment of a new French-speaking member of the Federal Police of the Supervisory Body to replace Ms. Cécile Kruczynski. The plenary session of 24 April 2014 decided to apply gender parity by category. Mrs Cécile Kruczynski should therefore be replaced by someone of the same sex. The plenary session of 24 April 2014 decided to apply gender parity by category. Ms. Cécile Kruczynski should therefore be replaced by a member of the same sex. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 22 February 2017, I propose that you publish a call to candidates in the Belgian Official Journal for the mandate of female French speaking member of the Federal Police of the Supervisory Body on police information. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 22 February 2017, I propose that you publish an appeal to candidates for the Belgian Monitor for the term of French-speaking female member of the Federal Police of the Police Information Review Body. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-23-54-plenair-ip159x.u202	In accordance with the decision of the plenary session of 22 December 2016, a call for candidates was published in the Belgian Official Journal of 13 January 2017 for the mandates of the first and second deputy president of the P Committee. In accordance with the decision of the plenary meeting of 22 December 2016, a call for candidates for the terms of office of first and second alternate president of the P Committee was published in the Belgian Moniteur on 13 January 2017. The following application was submitted within the prescribed time limit: - Mrs Regine Claeys, judge in the Dutch-speaking family court in Brussels. The following application was submitted within the prescribed time limit: - Mrs Regine Claeys, judge of the Dutch-speaking court of the Brussels family. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 22 February 2017, the CV of Ms Regine Claeys will be delivered to the political groups. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 22 February 2017, the curriculum vitae of Mrs Regine Claeys will be forwarded to the political groups. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-23-54-plenair-ip159x.u203	The next item is the secret vote on naturalisations. (2285/1-2) The next item is the vote on naturalisations. (2285/1-2) Members are invited to deposit the proposal of naturalisation laws in the ballot box. Members are requested to submit the proposed naturalization laws in the ballot box. The proposal of naturalisation laws must not be signed. The proposed naturalization laws cannot be signed. Where a member opposes the naturalisation of an applicant, he shall delete the name of the interested party from the list which was delivered to him. A member who does not intend to grant naturalization to an applicant will delete the name of the applicant from the list given to him. Two Members must vote. I propose that our youngest two Members, Mrs Nawal Ben Hamou and Mrs Yoleen Van Camp, be appointed as voters. Two members shall proceed to the counting of the ballot. I propose that you appoint the two youngest members, Nawal Ben Hamou and Yoleen Van Camp, as deputy returning officers. I invite the voters from the names to call. I invite the deputy returning officers to make the roll call.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-23-54-plenair-ip159x.u204	We are going to close the secret vote on naturalization applications. We will close the ballot for naturalization applications. I would ask those Members who have not yet done so to put their ballots on the bus immediately. I ask those members who have not yet tabled their ballots to do so immediately. The secret ballot is closed. I declare the ballot closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-23-54-plenair-ip159x.u205	The last distributed agenda contains a list of proposals for which consideration has been requested. You have taken note of the list of proposals for consideration in the agenda distributed to you. If there is no objection, I shall consider it adopted; in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, these proposals shall be sent to the committees responsible. If there are no comments on this subject, I will take it into account as a matter of fact and refer the proposals back to the relevant committees in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 22 February 2017, I also propose the draft law (Mrs Kattrin Jadin) amending the Judicial Code in order to ensure greater mobility for judges in the judicial district of Eupen, no. 2323/1 to be considered.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-23-54-plenair-ip159x.u206	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 22 February 2017, I also propose that you take into consideration the proposed law (Ms Kattrin Jadin) amending the Judicial Code, aimed at ensuring more mobility for judges in the judicial district of Eupen, No. 2323/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-23-54-plenair-ip159x.u207	Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-23-54-plenair-ip159x.u208	The Government requested urgent treatment under Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure, when submitting the draft law amending the Law of 15 April 1994 on the protection of the general public and the environment against the dangers arising from ionizing radiation and on the Federal Nuclear Control Agency, concerning the financing of administrative, operational, study and investment costs resulting from the emergency nuclear risk plan, No. 2310/1. The Government requested urgency in accordance with Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure when the bill amending the Act of 15 April 1994 on the protection of the population and the environment from the dangers arising from ionizing radiation and relating to the Federal Agency for Nuclear Control was introduced, with regard to the financing of the administrative, operating, study and investment costs resulting from the emergency plan for nuclear risks, No. 2310/1. We have a habit of listening to the government's motivations first.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-23-54-plenair-ip159x.u209	Mr President, the government is asking for the urgency of draft law No. 2310/1. Each year, power reactor operators, Electrabel, pay a levy to cover the costs of the nuclear and radiological emergency plan. However, the current law only provides for the levy until 2016. It is therefore extremely important that the fund should continue to be stranded in 2017 and have a clear legal basis for doing so. The draft law should enter into force before the envisaged collection period of May 2017 in order to allow for a smooth billing. The government therefore requests the application of Article 51 of the Rules of Procedure, which is the urgency.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-23-54-plenair-ip159x.u210	I suggest that we speak out on the urgent question of sitting and getting up. I propose that we take a decision on the request for an emergency by sitting and rising.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-23-54-plenair-ip159x.u211	This inquiry was developed in a public meeting of the Committee on External Relations on 14 February 2017. This interview was held at the public meeting of the External Relations Commission of 14 February 2017. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 194/1): - a motion of recommendation was tabled by Ms. Gwenaëlle Grovonius; - a simple motion was tabled by Ms Rita Bellens, Ms Annemie Turtelboom and Ms Els Van Hoof and Mr Jean-Jacques Flahaux. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 194/1): - a motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mrs Gwenaëlle Grovonius; - a simple motion was tabled by Mrs Rita Bellens, Mrs Annemie Turtelboom and Mr Els Van Hoof and by Mr Jean-Jacques Flahaux. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put this motion to the vote. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of voting / Start of the vote. Did everyone vote and check their vote? / Did everyone vote and check his voice? End of voting / End of vote. Result of the vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-23-54-plenair-ip159x.u212	Yes 75 Yes No. 53 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 128 Total The simple motion was adopted. Therefore, the motion for recommendation is over. The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motion of recommendation lapses. Mr Dedecker has voted in favour.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-23-54-plenair-ip159x.u213	These inquiries were developed at a public meeting of the Committee on the Economy, Scientific Policy, Education, National Scientific and Cultural Institutions, Middle Classes and Agriculture on 15 February 2017. These interviews were held at the public meeting of the Committee for Business, Science Policy, Education, the National Scientific and Cultural Institutions, the Middle Classes and Agriculture of 15 February 2017. Three motions were tabled (MOT No. 198/1): - a first motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr. Michel de Lamotte; - a second motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr. Marcel Cheron; - a simple motion was tabled by Mr Werner Janssen. Three motions were tabled (MOT No. 198/1): - a first motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mr Michel de Lamotte; - a second motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mr Marcel Cheron; - a simple motion was tabled by Mr Werner Janssen. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put this motion to the vote. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-23-54-plenair-ip159x.u214	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I regret the absence of the Secretary of State, Elke Sleurs, who is still here, I am told, but who is not here. Mr President, I do not know if I am talking to someone who will one day succeed him, but it is possible. Not knowing who to turn to, I turn to the government bench to say how seriously the management of the Princess Elisabeth polar station is in such a state that, for almost two years in a row, scientists cannot go there; this station is in real danger. During the inquiry, we asked the Secretary of State – the one who is still competent – to resume the dialogue between the various interlocutors. This subject is serious, Belgium is a party to the Antarctic Treaty, we have a history in this region and the stakes are important for our country's scientific research. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask the person who will succeed him, that this problem be dealt with as a matter of priority and that dialogue be re-established so that we can regain pride around this polar station which has been seriously endangered. That is the purpose of the motion that I tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-23-54-plenair-ip159x.u215	Mr President, I tabled a motion following my inquiry to Mrs Sleurs in committee and then, in oral questions last week, when the Prime Minister assured me that Mrs Sleurs was putting double bites to solve the problem. I have to tell you, for the time being, it's pretty badly engaged. We cannot afford to wait for things to get loose at the government level because the 2017-2018 season must be ready by the end of June at the latest. And given the time it takes to reach agreement on an AISBL, put it in place and make it operational, negotiations with the Polar Foundation must begin as soon as possible. Otherwise, the mission will be a failure like the one in 2016-17. I think that the statutes of this association should be drafted in the best of ways, not in haste but in consultation, so that we do not bite our fingers in a few years from the writing of this text. Furthermore, I must point out, Mr Cheron has also done so, that the next meeting of the Antarctic Treaty will take place in May. The management of the polar station will be the subject of many questions from partner countries. We will obviously have to find a solution until then to avoid the ridicule of our position. Should I remind you of the race that took place at COP 21 in Paris? I call on the government, through this motion, to take the case in arms or for a mediator to be appointed by the latter so that the pace of negotiations can be set in motion and we can consult, using the goodwill of the parties. That is why I tabled this motion at the end of this inquiry. I appeal to my colleagues to support her.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-23-54-plenair-ip159x.u216	Start of voting / Start of the vote. Did everyone vote and check their vote? / Did everyone vote and check his voice? End of voting / End of vote. Result of the vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-23-54-plenair-ip159x.u217	Yes 76 Yes No. [[55]] No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 131 Total The simple motion was adopted. As a result, motions for recommendation are overturned. The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motions of recommendation lapse.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-23-54-plenair-ip159x.u218	This inquiry was developed in a public meeting of the Public Health, Environment and Renewal Committee of the Society on February 15, 2017. This interview was held at the public meeting of the Commission for Health, the Environment and the Social Renewal of 15 February 2017. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 201/1): - a motion of recommendation was tabled by Ms. Catherine Fonck; - a simple motion was tabled by Mrs Valerie Van Peel and Mr Dirk Janssens. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 201/1): - a motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mrs Catherine Fonck; - a simple motion was tabled by Mrs Valerie Van Peel and Mr Dirk Janssens. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put this motion to the vote. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-23-54-plenair-ip159x.u219	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am not going to abuse your patience or your impatience. I would like to appeal to you, in any case, to my colleagues in the Committee on Health, to give serious consideration to the implacable scientific advice which has been given on the food supplements based on red rice yeast. Given the potential serious side effects on people who take them, it seems to me particularly important to follow the scientific recommendations, which the minister has decided not to do, and to consider these products as drugs, not candy.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-23-54-plenair-ip159x.u220	Start of voting / Start of the vote. Did everyone vote and check their vote? / Did everyone vote and check his voice? End of voting / End of vote. Result of the vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-23-54-plenair-ip159x.u221	Yes 75 Yes No. [[55]] No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 130 Total The simple motion was adopted. Therefore, the motion for recommendation is over. The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motion of recommendation lapses.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-23-54-plenair-ip159x.u222	Vote on Amendment No 5 by Barbara Beware of Article 2. (1884/6) Vote on Amendment No 5 by Barbara Not to Article 2. (1884/6) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes 4 Yes No. 126 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 130 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 2 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 2 was adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-23-54-plenair-ip159x.u223	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 5) Yes 83 Yes No. 2............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 46 Abstensions Total 131 Total Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be sent to the Senate as a draft. (1884/7) Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be forwarded as a bill to the Senate. (1884/7) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Ladies and gentlemen, we shall now proceed to the next vote... Apparently there are technical problems... Ladies and gentlemen, we do not know what we are voting on, so vote No. 6 will be cancelled.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-23-54-plenair-ip159x.u224	We're forced to reset everything. This vote does not count. We will suspend the sitting for five minutes. The meeting is adjourned. The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-23-54-plenair-ip159x.u225	The sitting has resumed. The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-23-54-plenair-ip159x.u226	This is the result of the secret vote on naturalizations. (2285/2) This is the result of the naturalization vote. (2285/2) Aantal stemmen 118 Number of voters Valid votes 118 Votes valables Perfect majority 60 Absolute majority All naturalisations have achieved the absolute majority. The proposal of naturalisation laws will be voted on shortly. All naturalizations obtained an absolute majority. The vote on the proposed naturalization laws will take place in a moment. The proposal of the Committee on Naturalizations consists of three parts (A, B and C) each containing several articles to be adopted. The Naturalisations Commission's proposal is divided into three parts (A, B and C) each containing several articles to be adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-23-54-plenair-ip159x.u227	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the whole of the proposal for a naturalisation law (Part A) will take place later. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the whole proposal for a naturalisation law (Part A) will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-23-54-plenair-ip159x.u228	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the whole of the proposal for a naturalisation law (Part B) will take place later. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the whole proposal for a naturalisation law (Part B) will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-23-54-plenair-ip159x.u229	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the whole of the proposal for a naturalisation law (Part C) will take place later. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the whole proposal for a naturalisation law (Part C) will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-23-54-plenair-ip159x.u230	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 7) Yes 104 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 22 Abstensions Total 126 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (2277/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (2277/4) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-23-54-plenair-ip159x.u231	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / Fin du vote. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 8) Yes 126 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 126 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (2265/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (2265/4)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-23-54-plenair-ip159x.u232	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 9) Yes 126 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 127 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (2283/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (2283/4) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? [[No]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-23-54-plenair-ip159x.u233	Vote on Amendment No 57 by Raoul Hedebouw cs to delete Articles 2 to 8. (2247/7) Vote on Amendment No 57 of Raoul Hedebouw cs leaving out Articles 2 to 8. (2247/7) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-23-54-plenair-ip159x.u234	Yes [[40]] Yes No. 87 No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 128 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-23-54-plenair-ip159x.u235	I wanted to vote yes, Mr President.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-23-54-plenair-ip159x.u236	It's been noted. Vote on Amendment No 74 by Laurette Onkelinx cs to Article 2. (2247/7) Vote on Amendment No 74 of Laurette Onkelinx cs on article 2. (2247/7) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-23-54-plenair-ip159x.u237	Yes 44 Yes No. [[74]] No Abstentions 10 Abstensions Total 128 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 2 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 2 was adopted. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? Vote on Amendment No 75 by Laurette Onkelinx cs to Article 3. (2247/7) Vote on Amendment No 75 by Laurette Onkelinx cs on article 3. (2247/7) Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it? Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-23-54-plenair-ip159x.u238	Yes 50 Yes No. 76 No Abstentions 4 Abstensions Total 130 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 3 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 3 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 76 by Laurette Onkelinx cs to Article 4. (2247/7) Vote on Amendment No 76 by Laurette Onkelinx cs on article 4. (2247/7) Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it? Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? [[Yes]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-23-54-plenair-ip159x.u239	Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 4 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 4 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 77 by Laurette Onkelinx cs to Article 5. (2247/7) Vote on Amendment No 77 by Laurette Onkelinx cs on article 5. (2247/7) Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it? Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? [[Yes]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-23-54-plenair-ip159x.u240	Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 5 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 5 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 78 by Laurette Onkelinx cs to Article 6. (2247/7) Vote on Amendment No 78 by Laurette Onkelinx cs on article 6. (2247/7) Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it? Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-23-54-plenair-ip159x.u241	Yes 49 Yes No. 79 No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 129 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 6 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 6 was adopted. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? Vote on Amendment No 79 by Laurette Onkelinx cs to insert an Article 6/1(n). (2247/7) Vote on Amendment No 79 of Laurette Onkelinx cs to insert an article 6/1(n). (2247/7) Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it? Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-23-54-plenair-ip159x.u242	Yes 44 Yes No. 77 No Abstentions 9 Abstensions Total 130 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? Articles 7 and 8 were adopted. Articles 7 and 8 have been adopted. Vote on Amendment No. 58 by Raoul Hedebouw cs to delete Articles 9 to 21. (2247/7) Vote on Amendment No 58 of Raoul Hedebouw cs for the omission of Articles 9 to 21. (2247/7) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-23-54-plenair-ip159x.u243	Yes 2............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Yes No. 86 No Abstentions 41 Abstensions Total 129 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? Vote on Amendment No 80 by Laurette Onkelinx cs to Article 9. (2247/7) Vote on Amendment No 80 by Laurette Onkelinx cs on article 9. (2247/7) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 16) Yes [[43]] Yes No. 75 No Abstentions 10 Abstensions Total 128 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? Mrs de Coster voted against. Vote on Amendment No 66 by Evita Willaert cs to Article 9. (2247/7) Vote on Amendment No 66 by Evita Willaert cs on Article 9. (2247/7) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-23-54-plenair-ip159x.u244	Yes [[45]] Yes No. 72 No Abstentions 9 Abstensions Total 126 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 9 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 9 was adopted. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? Vote on Amendment No 89 by Catherine Fonck to Article 10. (2247/7) Vote on Amendment No 89 by Catherine Fonck on article 10. (2247/7) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-23-54-plenair-ip159x.u245	Yes 50 Yes No. 75 No Abstentions 4 Abstensions Total 129 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 10 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 10 was adopted. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? Vote on Amendment No 67 by Evita Willaert cs to Article 11. (2247/7) Vote on Amendment No 67 by Evita Willaert cs on Article 11. (2247/7) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-23-54-plenair-ip159x.u246	Yes [[45]] Yes No. 75 No Abstentions 9 Abstensions Total 129 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? Vote on Amendment No 81 by Laurette Onkelinx cs to Article 11. (2247/7) Vote on Amendment No 81 by Laurette Onkelinx cs on article 11. (2247/7) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-23-54-plenair-ip159x.u247	Yes 44 Yes No. 75 No Abstentions 10 Abstensions Total 129 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 11 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 11 was adopted. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? Article 12 was adopted. Article 12 has been adopted. Vote on Amendment No 68 by Evita Willaert cs to Article 13. (2247/7) Vote on Amendment No 68 by Evita Willaert cs on Article 13. (2247/7) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-23-54-plenair-ip159x.u248	Yes [[45]] Yes No. 76 No Abstentions 9 Abstensions Total 130 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? Vote on Amendment No 82 by Laurette Onkelinx cs to Article 13. (2247/7) Vote on Amendment No 82 by Laurette Onkelinx cs on article 13. (2247/7) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-23-54-plenair-ip159x.u249	Yes [[45]] Yes No. 75 No Abstentions 9 Abstensions Total 129 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 13 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 13 was adopted. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? Vote on Amendment No 69 by Evita Willaert cs to Article 14. (2247/7) Vote on Amendment No 69 by Evita Willaert cs on Article 14. (2247/7) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-23-54-plenair-ip159x.u250	Yes [[45]] Yes No. 76 No Abstentions 9 Abstensions Total 130 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? Vote on Amendment No 83 by Laurette Onkelinx cs to Article 14. (2247/7) Vote on Amendment No 83 by Laurette Onkelinx cs on article 14. (2247/7) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-23-54-plenair-ip159x.u251	Yes [[45]] Yes No. 76 No Abstentions 9 Abstensions Total 130 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 14 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 14 was adopted. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? Vote on Amendment No 70 by Evita Willaert cs to Article 15. (2247/7) Vote on Amendment No 70 by Evita Willaert cs on Article 15. (2247/7) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-23-54-plenair-ip159x.u252	Yes [[43]] Yes No. 76 No Abstentions 9 Abstensions Total 128 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? Vote on Amendment No 84 by Laurette Onkelinx cs to Article 15. (2247/7) Vote on Amendment No 84 by Laurette Onkelinx cs on article 15. (2247/7) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-23-54-plenair-ip159x.u253	Yes 44 Yes No. [[74]] No Abstentions 10 Abstensions Total 128 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 15 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 15 was adopted. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? Articles 16 to 21 were adopted. Articles 16 to 21 have been adopted. Vote on Amendment No 59 by Raoul Hedebouw cs to delete Articles 22 to 28. (2247/7) Vote on Amendment No 59 by Raoul Hedebouw cs for the deletion of Articles 22 to 28. (2247/7) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-23-54-plenair-ip159x.u254	Yes [[43]] Yes No. [[85]] No Abstentions 2 Abstensions Total 130 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? Vote on Amendment No 13 by Catherine Fonck to Article 22. (2247/3) Vote on Amendment No 13 by Catherine Fonck on article 22. (2247/3) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-23-54-plenair-ip159x.u255	Yes 49 Yes No. 76 No Abstentions 5 Abstensions Total 130 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 22 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 22 was adopted. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? Vote on Amendment No 14 by Catherine Fonck to Articles 23 to 28. (2247/3) Vote on Amendment No 14 by Catherine Fonck on Articles 23 to 28. (2247/3) Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it? Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? [[Yes]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-23-54-plenair-ip159x.u256	Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Articles 23, 24 and 25 were adopted. Articles 23, 24 and 25 have been adopted. Vote on Amendment No 85 by Laurette Onkelinx cs to Article 26. (2247/7) Vote on Amendment No 85 by Laurette Onkelinx cs on article 26. (2247/7) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-23-54-plenair-ip159x.u257	Yes [[43]] Yes No. [[80]] No Abstentions 4 Abstensions Total 127 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 26 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 26 was adopted. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]] Mr Van Quickenborne voted against. Article 27 has been adopted. Article 27 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 86 by Laurette Onkelinx cs to Article 28. (2247/7) Vote on Amendment No 86 by Laurette Onkelinx cs on article 28. (2247/7) Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it? Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-23-54-plenair-ip159x.u258	Yes 50 Yes No. 76 No Abstentions 4 Abstensions Total 130 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? Vote on amendment No 88 by Catherine Fonck to Article 28. (2247/7) Vote on Amendment No 88 by Catherine Fonck on article 28. (2247/7) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-23-54-plenair-ip159x.u259	Yes [[40]] Yes No. 75 No Abstentions 14 Abstensions Total 129 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 28 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 28 was adopted. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? Vote on Amendment No 19 by Catherine Fonck to insert an Article 28/1(n). (2247/3) Vote on Amendment No 19 by Catherine Fonck to insert an article 28/1(n). (2247/3) Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it? Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? [[Yes]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-23-54-plenair-ip159x.u260	Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Vote on Amendment No 20 by Catherine Fonck to insert an Article 28/2(n). (2247/3) Vote on Amendment No 20 by Catherine Fonck to insert an article 28/2(n). (2247/3) Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it? Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? [[Yes]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-23-54-plenair-ip159x.u261	Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Vote on Amendment No 21 by Catherine Fonck to insert an Article 28/3(n). (2247/3) Vote on Amendment No 21 by Catherine Fonck to insert an article 28/3(n). (2247/3) Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it? Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? [[Yes]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-23-54-plenair-ip159x.u262	Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Vote on Amendment No 22 by Catherine Fonck to insert an Article 28/4(n). (2247/3) Vote on Amendment No 22 by Catherine Fonck to insert an article 28/4(n). (2247/3) Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it? Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? [[Yes]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-23-54-plenair-ip159x.u263	Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Vote on amendment No. 90 by Evita Willaert cs to insert articles 28/1(n) to 28/16(n). (2247/9) Vote on Amendment No 90 by Evita Willaert cs inserting Articles 28/1(n) to 28/16(n). (2247/9) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 32) Yes 50 Yes No. 75 No Abstentions 4 Abstensions Total 129 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? Vote on Amendment No 72 by Evita Willaert cs to insert an Article 28/17(n). (2247/7) Vote on Amendment No 72 by Evita Willaert cs to insert an Article 28/17(n). (2247/7) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-23-54-plenair-ip159x.u264	Yes 44 Yes No. 76 No Abstentions 10 Abstensions Total 130 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? Vote on Amendment No. 73 by Evita Willaert cs to insert an Article 28/18(n). (2247/7) Vote on Amendment No 73 by Evita Willaert cs to insert an Article 28/18(n). (2247/7) Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it? Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? [[Yes]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-23-54-plenair-ip159x.u265	Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Vote on Amendment No 60 by Raoul Hedebouw cs to delete Articles 29 to 31. (2247/7) Vote on Amendment No 60 from Raoul Hedebouw cs to the exclusion of Articles 29 to 31. (2247/7) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-23-54-plenair-ip159x.u266	Yes [[41]] Yes No. 78 No Abstentions 8 Abstensions Total 127 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Articles 29 to 31 were adopted. The amendment was therefore rejected and Articles 29 to 31 were adopted. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]] Mr Bonte voted against. Vote on Amendment No 61 by Raoul Hedebouw cs to delete Article 32. (2247/7) Vote on Amendment No 61 of Raoul Hedebouw cs leaving out Article 32. (2247/7) Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it? Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-23-54-plenair-ip159x.u267	Yes [[41]] Yes No. 82 No Abstentions 2 Abstensions Total 125 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Rule 32 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 32 was adopted. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]] Mrs Smaers and Mr Yüksel voted against. Mr Thiébaut and Mrs Özen voted in favour. Vote on Amendment No 62 by Raoul Hedebouw cs to delete Articles 33 to 55. (2247/7) Vote on Amendment No 62 of Raoul Hedebouw cs for the omission of Articles 33 to 55. (2247/7) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-23-54-plenair-ip159x.u268	Yes [[43]] Yes No. [[85]] No Abstentions 2 Abstensions Total 130 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Articles 33 to 55 were adopted. The amendment was therefore rejected and Articles 33 to 55 were adopted. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? Vote on Amendment No 63 by Raoul Hedebouw cs to delete Articles 56 to 67. (2247/7) Vote on Amendment No 63 of Raoul Hedebouw cs for the deletion of Articles 56 to 67. (2247/7) Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it? Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? [[Yes]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-23-54-plenair-ip159x.u269	Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Articles 56 to 67 were adopted. The amendment was therefore rejected and Articles 56 to 67 were adopted. Vote on Amendment No 12 by Catherine Fonck to insert an Article 67/1(n). (2247/3) Vote on Amendment No 12 by Catherine Fonck to insert an Article 67/1(n). (2247/3) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-23-54-plenair-ip159x.u270	Yes 50 Yes No. 76 No Abstentions 4 Abstensions Total 130 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? Vote on Amendment No 64 by Raoul Hedebouw cs to delete Articles 68 to 75. (2247/7) Vote on Amendment No 64 of Raoul Hedebouw cs for the omission of Articles 68 to 75. (2247/7) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-23-54-plenair-ip159x.u271	Yes [[43]] Yes No. 86 No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 130 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Articles 68 to 75 were adopted. The amendment was therefore rejected and Articles 68 to 75 were adopted. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? Vote on Amendment No 16 by Catherine Fonck to insert an Article 78/1(n). (2247/3) Vote on Amendment No 16 by Catherine Fonck to insert an article 78/1(n). (2247/3) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-23-54-plenair-ip159x.u272	Yes 50 Yes No. 76 No Abstentions 4 Abstensions Total 130 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? Vote on Amendment No 17 by Catherine Fonck to insert an Article 78/2(n). (2247/3) Vote on Amendment No 17 by Catherine Fonck to insert an article 78/2(n). (2247/3) Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it? Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? [[Yes]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-23-54-plenair-ip159x.u273	Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Vote on Amendment No 18 by Catherine Fonck to insert an Article 78/3(n). (2247/3) Vote on Amendment No 18 by Catherine Fonck to insert an article 78/3(n). (2247/3) Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it? Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? [[Yes]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-23-54-plenair-ip159x.u274	Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Vote on Amendment No 65 by Raoul Hedebouw cs to delete Rule 79. (2247/7) Vote on Amendment No 65 by Raoul Hedebouw cs to the exclusion of Article 79. (2247/7) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-23-54-plenair-ip159x.u275	Yes [[43]] Yes No. [[84]] No Abstentions 3 Abstensions Total 130 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Rule 79 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 79 was adopted. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? Vote on Amendment No 87 by Laurette Onkelinx cs to Rule 80. (2247/7) Vote on Amendment No 87 by Laurette Onkelinx cs on article 80. (2247/7) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-23-54-plenair-ip159x.u276	Yes 50 Yes No. 75 No Abstentions 4 Abstensions Total 129 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Rule 80 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 80 was adopted. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-23-54-plenair-ip159x.u277	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-23-54-plenair-ip159x.u278	Yes 76 Yes No. [[43]] No Abstentions 10 Abstensions Total 129 Total As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (2247/10) Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (2247/10) Reason for abstention? Reason for abstinence?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-23-54-plenair-ip159x.u279	Mr President, I abstained, as I did two weeks ago, because of the absence of Mr Van Mechelen.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-23-54-plenair-ip159x.u280	It's been noted. We shall now proceed to the vote on the proposal for naturalisation laws, the articles of which we have just discussed. We will proceed to vote on the proposed naturalization laws that we have just discussed. Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-23-54-plenair-ip159x.u281	Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check his voice? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 43) Yes 124 Yes No. 3...................................................................................................................... 3...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 127 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the proposal of naturalisation law (Part A). It will be submitted to the King for ratification. Accordingly, the Chamber adopts the proposed naturalization law (Part A). It will be subject to Royal Assent.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-23-54-plenair-ip159x.u282	Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it? (vote 43) Consequently, the Court adopts the proposal of naturalisation law (Part B). It will be submitted to the King for ratification. Accordingly, the Chamber adopts the proposed naturalization law (Part B). It will be subject to Royal Assent.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-23-54-plenair-ip159x.u283	Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it? (vote 43) Consequently, the Court adopts the proposal of naturalisation law (Part C). It will be submitted to the King for ratification. Accordingly, the Chamber adopts the proposed naturalization law (Part C). It will be subject to Royal Assent.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-23-54-plenair-ip159x.u284	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check his voice? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 44) Yes 125 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 2 Abstensions Total 127 Total Consequently, the Court accepts the rejection proposal. Accordingly, the board adopts the proposal to reject. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-23-54-plenair-ip159x.u285	We must proceed with the adoption of the agenda for Thursday 9 March 2017. We must proceed to the approval of the agenda of the sitting on Thursday, 9 March 2017. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] The agenda has been adopted. No observation? [[No]] The agenda was approved. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Thursday 9 March 2017 at 2.15 p.m. The meeting is adjourned. Next sitting on Thursday, 9 March 2017 at 2.15 p.m.
