ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-plenair-ip175x.u1	The meeting is open. The meeting was opened.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-plenair-ip175x.u2	A limited general discussion was held in accordance with Rule 116 of the Rules of Procedure. Pursuant to rule 116, bills are subject to limited general discussion.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-plenair-ip175x.u3	I propose that a single discussion be devoted to these draft laws. I propose that you devote one discussion to these bills. The limited general discussion is open. The limited general discussion is open. The rapporteurs are Messrs. Van de Velde et Laaouej. They refer to their written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-plenair-ip175x.u4	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will not be very long. We have been discussing this budgetary adjustment for several months now. The introduction by ministers, the hearings of the Court of Auditors and the European Commission, and the interventions of parliamentarians in the Committee on the Budget have led to lengthy delays. I wonder to what extent we could not imagine a procedure that would allow budgetary debates to be collected. We're just going to rehearse. This may be interesting, but it is appropriate that we organize ourselves better to shorten the review of adjustments and budgets. Indeed, the period is far too long. The problem with this adjustment is that it presents figures and trajectories that are overtaken by new considerations, which are not yet integrated. It's not a reproach, it's a finding. I am thinking in particular of the Councils of Thematic Ministers, which have budgetary consequences. The Minister of Budget explained to us that it would not necessarily be this year, although cybersecurity has allowed for some budgetary slippages. In any case, for 2018-2019, we wonder what the effects will be on the budget. These are aspects that we have not been able to address during the debates on budgetary adjustment. Another example is the government's ambitious investment plan. Here too, I believe that this can only be based on a revised multi-year trajectory, in particular in order to identify the ways in which it is financed. What about corporate tax reform? It was legitimate to question the two ministers in this regard during the adjustment review. Many of us have asked the government if it is considering this reform in a neutral fiscal framework. We haven't been answered. I imagine that arbitrations are continuing within the government. This is the first arbitration to take place. Therefore, I cannot imagine that the government is moving forward on this front without having first decided the question of the possible budgetary neutrality of corporate tax reform. Depending on whether you do it in a neutral way or not, the impact will obviously be different and not negligible on the budget path. At this stage, we still do not have an answer and we are being asked today to discuss the budgetary adjustment. I could multiply the examples that led me to say that the budgetary adjustment was obsolete. It should not be seen as a form of political aggression, but simply as a concern about the prospect of having to hold a debate on unstable figures. It is true that the budget is made of projections but nothing prevents us from trying to get as close to reality as possible, whether for 2017 or for the years to come. It is also important to recall that the government has decided to postpone the balance. It is recalled that the government agreement of the current majority was sealed on the desire to reach balance in 2018 by explaining that the brutal measures taken in 2015 – index jump, reduction of social contributions with the known impact on the financing of social security, increase in the price of medicines, cuts in public spending – would generate a boost in our economy that would translate, he said, both by creating jobs and by reviving growth. As far as growth is concerned, we know that we are still below the euro area average; this is, I believe, an unsolved and in any case unexplainable concern. On employment, I will reserve the discussions for later. However, it should be borne in mind that between the projections that existed in 2014 and the plans of the Office of the Plan, the variances are only tens of thousands. I ask the government to put this in parallel with the cost to workers of the index jump on one side and the "unfinancing" of social security caused by reductions in social contributions on the other. I am not sure that in total it can be considered a success, but again, I repeat, it is a debate that we have had many times in committee. I'm not going to repeat the same thing every time. Another point that seems important to me is that today we have the forecast of the Federal Office of the Plan on what would be the deficit by 2019 with, according to the Federal Office of the Plan, an effort of nine billion to do if we are indeed to achieve balance in 2019. I concede that the National Bank is talking about eight billion. That would be between eight and nine billion. We'll see. This remains colossal! That is why I solemnly ask for it, without arrogance: is it really in the government's intentions to achieve balance in 2019? I still haven't had an answer. We know that in 2018, it's impossible, but in 2019, do you intend to reach balance or do you consider that it will probably be better to leave the bill to others, to the next government? Here too, I think we need clarity. For the rest, you know the criticisms I have addressed to you. The government's deleveraging is nothing but a façade. We are returning to the 2013 public debt situation. You can't really say that you're convincing on the public debt side, just as you're still not convincing on the assessment of tax revenues. Then there is a major problem: it is that the famous task force which was to be set up and which we have called for many times is still not there. I can imagine that this involves public procurement procedures and takes time, but finally, it is still not there. There is therefore permanent doubt as to the assessment of tax revenues. After three years, it seems to me that, more than in the face of a delay, we are faced with a defect and it is high time, minister, to remedy it. In this connection, it should be noted that the Court of Auditors once again raises a major doubt on the evaluation of the performance of a number of posts, in particular the so-called savings from notional interest as a result of the reduction in the OLO rate: EUR 325 million. Both the Court of Auditors and the European Commission cast doubt. These 325 million are subject to bail. You don't take it into account, you keep it. In the same way, with regard to an additional 52 million on tax regularisation, the Court of Auditors kindly tells you to pay attention because this would require a doubling of the registered files. I must add the EUR 100 million on which there is still some doubt, concerning both the regulated investment funds and the specialised investment funds. The total of these three items amounts to EUR 500 million of revenue, of which one can doubt. This amount, while you are making an effort of $870 million in this fiscal year, when you take into account your buffer but also the additional efforts, is two-thirds. Two thirds of the effort is based on unquestioned revenues. That's a lot. I believe that your budgetary adjustment is again seriously lacking, but this is not the first time. Obviously, you're used to presenting us with files that don't stand the way. Unfortunately, I have to regret it and tell you once again. What about your discussions with Europe? Have you finally clarified whether or not the flexibility clause is accepted? We are still talking about a stake of 426 million euros. Minister of Budget, do you have any additional information to provide us today? I come to another point which I also think is alarming. My colleague Frédéric Daerden spoke to you about this during our discussions in committee. Alternative funding for social security is deteriorating. In particular, there has been a decrease in income from personal income. Minister, what about it? You've raised the discount rate for furniture, but the recipe is decreasing. Is this a reduction in the taxable base? If that is the case, it may be due to a reduction in dividends, but then give us the numbers. Or it can be explained by the fact that your famous liquidation reserve, which is a machine to reduce the discount furniture by tax engineering, is working to the fullest. I told you in 2015-2016 to pay attention to your liquidation reserve. This measure will structurally result in a decrease in the yield of the furniture discount. This will mean a deterioration in the tax justice we are committed to. Perhaps others in the majority are also attached to it, and I am thinking in particular of the CD&V. But above all, there is a deterioration in the financing of social security. This means that it is not enough to raise the discount rate facialally to please the CD&V partner. Erosion of the tax base should be avoided. There is no point in increasing the rate if you put in place devices that will empty the base of all its substance. I am very afraid that we will be confronted with this phenomenon with the famous liquidation reserve which no one is talking about, but which I have not forgotten, and which will still be the subject of a number of debates. I come to another point, ladies and gentlemen. We do not see any trace, in the budgetary adjustment, of the famous mobility budget! It would probably be time to take stock of that. Minister of Finance, I know you need to coordinate with the Minister of Employment, also with the Minister of Mobility, no doubt. Where are we? Does Mr Reynders' major announcement that an additional 450 net euros would be allocated to workers make any progress? Is the tax framework ready? I don't see anything in the adjustment, which suggests that there is still no progress on this issue. Mr. Minister of Finance, I would also like to hear from you about inflation. Indeed, it calms down. But we are emerging from a peak two months ago, particularly impressive, which was able to make a large part of the specialised press say that we had, in Belgium, one of the most important rates of inflation in Europe. This was reflected in the deterioration of purchasing power that does not offset the increase in disposable income that you put on your credit, but that I will point out to you that in reality it is a perfect elasticity. This can be seen in previous periods: there is the one that is taken by your government at every economic growth, however weak it may be. What says a little economic growth, means increased disposable income mechanically. However, due to the slowdown in economic growth in Belgium in comparative terms with the other euro area countries, we had observed that disposable income had shrunk. It takes a little longer, but it would be a shortcut to say that it's because of your policies. No! There is a natural elasticity between disposable income and economic growth, as there is a natural elasticity between personal tax revenues and economic growth. Do not attribute results in terms of the evolution of disposable income to macroeconomic mechanics. But I'm going back to inflation. You may have disposable income that increases but if you have galloping inflation, it will neutralize it. In other words, the result for people is nothing! Here too, perhaps we should see how you break down the explanation of this inflation. It's a problem that doesn't leave us worried. Another point, Minister, which is more directly addressed to you. This is the situation in the FPS Finances. It would be a good idea to take stock of the discussions with FPS Finance officers in the context of the budgetary adjustment. In their view, it would lack the means to carry out its verification and monitoring tasks. You will argue that this is a problem of organisation and social relations within the department. No! This is a problem that concerns the budget. A tax administration that does not function well, where there is grunt, movements, it is an administration that will not meet its commitments at the level of tax establishment and collection, i.e. at the level of revenue. It is high time, Minister, to tell us what is happening. Would I dare ask you to take stock of the evolution of the "fairer tax" issue? I no longer know very well what the position of the various partners of the majority is. Value gain or not? Mr Dewael said, not long ago, that this was a bad measure. I feel like Mr. Beke's relaxed a little bit. Where are we today? Will you, at the start of 2018 or on the occasion of the corporate tax reform, come with a tax reform plan to make it fairer? I hope that you will not once again reduce direct taxes to increase indirect taxes. For it is of no use! Reducing direct taxes, yes, as long as they are financed and do not affect public spending and social security. But if it is again to reduce direct taxes to increase VAT or excise duties, it will be tantamount to giving one hand to take over from the other, transforming progressive taxation into regressive taxation. If that is the case, that is no fairer. No! The question is: what are you doing with the bases of financial income and capital gains? That's where we're waiting for you. If there's nothing on the menu, you have to tell Parliament. Let's stop playing hide-and-seek! I don't know if our CD&V colleagues will have anything to say. In any case, minister, it is legitimate for us to ask you where we stand in relation to all this. I come to another point which is a real scandal. It's a scandal! And it is still not settled either by the budgetary adjustment or by the law on various provisions that we are talking about. You maintain the non-indexation of tax reductions for pensioners and beneficiaries. I don't know how much it brings you. A few tens of millions of euros? We'd have to do the math again. But don't you find it deeply unfair to deprive pensioners, especially those who benefit from a small pension, of the indexation of their tax reduction, which is now just over €2,000. You will still look for 2% of their EUR 2,000, about EUR 40 per year. Mr. Bacquelaine is not here, but do you not think it necessary to restore some justice to the pensioners you have already imposed an index jump? Going to tell me that minimum pensions are being increased by communicating loudly – I saw a Belga pass yesterday and Mr Daerden explained it to me – and, moreover, maintaining the non-indexation of tax reductions for pensioners is more than contradictory. It becomes imposture and, that, people know it. People know that! I call on the government to take responsibility. We tabled an amendment in the Committee on Finance to restore this indexation immediately, to stop this injustice. I hope there will be people in the majority to support us. This is becoming indecent and unacceptable. With regard to the other point, let us note some positive elements. Only the Minister of Finance and Mr. Van Rompuy listening to me. I'm talking to them. With the chairman of the commission and the Minister of Finance, we can already move forward. I see Mrs. Wilmes is taking notes. [[Laughs]] New initiatives: EUR 60 million: better than nothing! Indeed, 15 million for each political family: 15 million for the judiciary, 15 million for the police, 15 million for the non-trader and Mrs De Block and 15 million for the energy transition and Mrs Marghem. It's not much, but it's better than nothing! However, there is nothing about development plans related to public investment. We still don't know how you're going to manage financially at the SNCB level. At the level of justice, the Court of Auditors tells you that, just for the arrears, there are 18 million euros and there are still problems at the level of prisons. The 15 million won't be enough. We know that we have arrived at the bone and that you continue constantly to snack on the means of justice. Similarly, it is explained that there is not enough money at the Régie des Bâtiments to pay the rents. How are you going to do that? By interdepartmental provisions, as usual... these interdepartmental provisions are still not Mary Poppins' hat. We're not at Walt Disney's. At some point, it stops and the crates are empty. How are you going to do that? Another particularly sensitive and ethical point is development cooperation. In this respect, the Court of Auditors tells you that you will not be able to fulfil all your obligations. For all these reasons, this is an adjustment that we do not know if it happens too soon or too late, but which is completely overtaken by events, an adjustment with many uncertainties. We don't know where you're going, especially with regard to corporate tax reform, fiscally neutral or not. What funding for investment plans? Your choice not to finance the tax shift leads to finding 9 billion euros by 2019. How are you going to do that? You have already postponed the fiscal balance and are expected to refer the bill to future government and generations. In this adjustment alone, there are at least 500 million euros of revenue that do not keep the road, budgetary shortcomings in departments that are strategic. You will understand, of course, that we do not adhere to your budgetary adjustment. We do not adhere to your budgetary policy. We will vote against your budget adjustment!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-plenair-ip175x.u5	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, budgetary control is always an opportunity to examine not only the figures but also the implementation of the measures themselves. Where are we in the year, where are we in the legislature? The measures to be taken by a government in such a budget are based on the question of where and from whom the money is to be obtained, to whom and to whom it is to be spent and what action is needed to create more sustainable economic growth. In fact, the answers and therefore the measures are quite well known. Many international economic bodies and organisations have already expressed their views on this issue. There is actually quite a broad consensus on this, except for those like Paul De Grauwe, for example. The recommendations are almost the same every year, especially for a country like Belgium. The first recommendation is always to save on public expenditure. Secondly, a government needs to reduce growth-killing taxes, so the taxes shift to taxes on things that less disturb growth. Thirdly, it must activate the population, maintain infrastructure and control debt. That actually sounds pretty obvious. How do we deal with these recommendations in Belgium? The implementation of such measures in this area takes time. These measures are also courageous measures. It is, moreover, the measures taken consistently by the government when it took office. In the meantime, the government has already achieved savings of 2% of GDP in public expenditure compared to unchanged policies. That's a pretty strong figure, a good start. I think it's also the way forward to move on. The tax shift meant not only a shift, but also a reduction of 8 billion euros, away from the growth-killing taxes on labour. Together with the index jump and the reform of the 1996 law, this has made our companies competitive again and rebalanced the trade balance. This was accompanied by a reduction in the bridge pension, the introduction of flexi-jobs and the introduction of activation plans for the long-term unemployed. In this way, we have also implemented the other recommendation, namely to activate the population. Together with the investment pact to reinvest in infrastructure, all this results in a reduction in the structural deficit, which was more than 3% when the government took office. This budgetary control reduced it to 0.84% by more than two thirds. It is also interesting to look at the concept of structural deficit. The concept of structural deficit is not so old in the history of our country. We used to look only at the nominal deficit. What's the nominal deficit? That is simple: the difference between the amount spent in a year and the amount received. The structural deficit also looks at the impact of measures in the slightly longer term. What is the impact of promises being made today, but having to pay in five years' time? Then it's interesting to compare it to the past. For example, let us look at the 1990s and 2000s, when there was a booming economy. Today, growth is finally attracting a little bit, but 1.6 %, the European average, cannot be called a high economy in a historical perspective. This contrasts sharply with growth in the 1990s and 2000. During that real high-conjunction there was at most one budget in nominal equilibrium and even that is debatable. At the same time, many promises were made for, for example, leave schemes with pension rights, measures that will have to be paid in the future. The pension rights that were then granted are paid by the current government and the next governments. The accounts that were entered into then are now being paid. The result is that we actually have to look at some kind of implicit public debt. If all these promises are added up, it is an interesting figure, which was recently issued...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... These figures were established in a study by the University of Freiburg, published by the Bank for International Settlements. That is the debt we have to bear, not so much in a credit with banks and bondholders. That is the fault, the promises we have made to our own people. In pensions alone, there is a pit of EUR 1 557 billion, or 379 % of GDP. Those are hallucinating numbers. This debt could have been avoided when the first signs of an ageing population emerged. We all knew how many children were born and how many people would retire. Unfortunately, the measures were limited to something like the Silver Fund. Today, fortunately, we have a different policy in this area. Today there is a policy that does address these problems, which does guarantee the affordability of our pensions. Only with the reform of pension systems will we have halved the ageing bill. You may not have seen that right away in the budget at a time of one year, but that is a measure for which we will be grateful not only to our children but also to our grandchildren. They would have to pay the invoice. Europe also recognises the importance of these measures. At the time, the ageing bill was not seen coming. That was like the sovereign debt, which some PSs thought would disappear by itself, as it had come there by itself. So nothing was done about the ageing bill. Europe saw that problem and put Belgium on a mid-term objective, because it was so bad with all the promises it was supposed to make. In the medium term, Belgium had to achieve a structural surplus of 0.75 % in the budget. Those are the surpluses that we should be making in order to pay for our ageing population. Thanks to the measures taken by this legislature, Europe has stated that the mid-term objective was quite strict. The measures have such an impact on the affordability of the invoice that the mid-term objective was reduced to 0 %. In this way, too, last week, the OECD placed us among the best students in the classroom, which concerns countries that implement its recommendations most consistently. The results of the policy on the implementation of many recommendations on which there is an economic consensus are repeated every day. The employment rate is at an historic peak. The efficacy rate is over 69 percent, something we haven't seen in a very long time. The unemployment rate is lower than it has been for years and even falls below structural unemployment. As you know, if you go under structural unemployment, you will get pressure on wages because of the scarcity of the labour market. The scarcity of the right people and workers then creates an upward pressure on wages. Today we are below that with our unemployment rate. The OECD is even seeing our unemployment rate fall down next year to a level before 2007, before the banking crisis, for the difficult years. At the same time, there is a record number of start-ups, a historically low number of bankruptcies, companies being competitive again and the trade balance is finally positive again. Once again, we export more goods and services and import more prosperity, which has come here. I repeat a title from the newspaper, very exemplified: "The structural deficit is melting away." Of course, this is not due to the heat outside, but to a combination of growth and growth-enhancing policies. In addition, in such a budget, we should not only look at the hard economic figures, the cash: how much comes in and how much goes out? What we do, of course, is also done to strengthen the prosperity and well-being of the population. We are also doing much better than average for the welfare indicators in the OECD reports. There are the OECD's best life indicators. On nine out of 11 of these indicators, we do better than the rest. We know the smallest pay gap between men and women from all over the developed world. Is there a pay gap and is it too big? Yes. Today, however, it is the smallest pay gap between men and women in the developed world. We should be proud of that. That is not the realization of this government alone, absolutely not, we must acknowledge. I just wanted to point out that we are doing very well in this area. People's disposable income is rising. That is a merit of this government. The risk of poverty is decreasing. That makes sense, too. The best dam against poverty is work. If we look at the difference between regional governments, then we see clearly the difference in policy. The composition of this government is similar to that in Flanders, while the government in the South of the country has a completely inverse composition. In Flanders today we see a shortage of labour. We have unemployment below the balance. We have a shortage of labour and there is a budget in balance. The employment rate really rises to Scandinavian proportions. Brussels and Wallonia have different records, unfortunately in terms of unemployment. There is an exploding government deficit in 2018, a South European unemployment rate and a participation rate that would have led to the bankruptcy of social security without the transfers, without the import of Flemish tax money. Perhaps we should think of Greek measures for a Greek administration, taking over control and making transfers conditional. Colleagues, that is the state of the country. That is the state of this budgetary control. If we look at it in the longer term and take account of the promises made and the reforms that have been made, it can actually be said that this is one of the first budgets that has been in balance for years, for decades, and that will ensure that we no longer allow future debts to rise and explode. That is the strength of the structural reforms we are undertaking, that is the strength of change. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-plenair-ip175x.u6	This is a budgetary adjustment, not a budget. So we must not try to find out what is not there. The reforms have been put in place from the 2017 initial, and the following will be implemented in the 2018 initial. This first adjustment in any case confirms our government's commitment to supporting job creation, increased purchasing power and the competitiveness of our country, with a view to ensuring the long-term financing of our social security. No new taxes, no new savings for the citizen, and the government – as Mr Laaouej pointed out – has even gone further by providing additional margins for police, justice, the non-market sector, the civil service and renewable energies. It's not enough yet, you hear it, you see it. But this shows a clear will, a vision and a long-term perspective: we do not spend the money we do not have. It's not the same everywhere. Moreover, this adjustment reflects budgetary prudence with the maintenance of a margin to offset any changes in tax revenues. In the same spirit of caution as the Budget Minister monitors, the figure used for growth projections is 1.4, while international agencies expect 1.6 growth. The budgetary results and the limited effort of this adjustment reflect a positive economic dynamic set up by this government in particular. Structural reforms are gradually yielding results. The context of this increase in growth and the massive creation of jobs clearly and positively influences fiscal year 2017. The choices made, our choices, are therefore the right ones! The Monitoring Committee on 20 June, prior to the release of its July report, has already provided the Budget Minister with an update on the budgetary situation in 2017. Although the adjustments were made some time ago, we now see that there are new parameters and recent evaluations. There is an upward trend in tax revenues, as well as control over public spending, which is not surprising when we know the quality of the Minister of Budget. Thank you for applause from the Minister of Budget. It's perfect, we need room drivers! In terms of deficit, the Court of Auditors pointed out in its report that the structural improvement of 1 % in 2017 was higher than in previous years. The nominal balance and the structural balance are improving and it is now seriously moving us away from the dangerous areas of 3%. The progress made since 2014 is important. There is a real positive development in relation to the past, because our government is instilling a new policy and building on a realistic budget that is able to strike a balance between fiscal prudence, structural reforms and new investments. Many parameters are changing in the right direction and this is confirmed by independent bodies. For example, for growth, like the National Bank, the Federal Office of the Plan increased its growth projection to 1.6% from 1.4% in February 2017. We are above the 1.5% figure foreseen by the European Commission. What is reassuring is that all this comes from the support of domestic demand, in particular private consumption and business investment. It is a sign of a strengthening of business confidence in economic prospects and opportunities. As the National Bank points out in its new report of June 2017, there is a clear positive impact of the tax shift, the next wage effects of which will occur in January 2018. Increasing disposable income, of course, boosts our growth. In terms of job creation, the results are also there. The forecast continues to be revised upwards. The Federal Office of the Plan plans to create 260,000 new jobs over the five-year period, which is a record. The good functioning of the labour market is confirmed by the high level of vacancies in enterprises. It is sufficient to consult the Eurostat reports on this subject. This labour market dynamic reduces the unemployment rate and forecasts are 6.8% for 2017 and 6.6% for 2018 with the National Bank's outlook for a significant increase in the employment rate to 70.2% in 2019. This is a very favourable development. The Plan Bureau points out that purchasing power in 2017 and 2018 will be supported by the many job creations. It highlights the high level of household confidence and, in particular, confidence in the labour market situation. It should also be noted, and it will please the Minister for SMEs, that there are twice as many people who start their businesses and move into self-employment. Business start-ups have never been so high and there have never been so few bankruptcies. Moreover, the 2017 OECD report shows that Belgium was one of the countries with the highest tax burden in 2016. We therefore want to continue along this path: to reform to create more activities, more jobs and to finance social protections in the long term, while ensuring fiscal consolidation at the service of all citizens. The Secretary-General of the OECD confirmed eight days ago that our macroeconomic policy framework was sound and that it has been strengthened in recent years by many major reforms in the areas of labour taxation, pensions, business regulation and support for self-employed and SMEs. This is an eight-day statement.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-plenair-ip175x.u7	Mr Piedboeuf, yesterday we referred to the sensitive issue of tax reductions for pensioners. You know that they benefit from a basic reduction of just over EUR 2000 and the government has previously decided to freeze the indexation of this tax reduction, which represents an annual loss of EUR 40 for the people concerned. You're talking about the pensioners, the purchasing power, the government's balance sheet, which you think is fair. Do you agree that a measure such as this strikes unfairly, indiscriminately, regardless of the level of the pension, many of our pensioners? Do you not consider that this adjustment can be used to stop this injustice and to restore indexation? How do you position yourself? Your argument in committee was that it had been done in the past and that the measure was being extended. Do you stick to that logic? Is the MR group responsible for maintaining the freeze on the indexation of tax reductions for pensioners?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-plenair-ip175x.u8	The MR group, like the majority, maintains its line because, as I have just told you, we do not spend the money we do not have. We have a clear line of consolidation and improvement of economic activity. And when we have restored this economic activity, when we have continued to create jobs, then we will find margins that will allow us to distribute, which you usually do but which we must catch up after! The OECD secretary also confirmed that we were in top performers...
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-plenair-ip175x.u9	Mr President, I wanted to respond to what Mr Piedboeuf said. As I understand it, the few tens of millions of euros you are going to look for from pensioners are a decisive factor for your economic policy, the revival of demand and the consolidation of public finances. So your entire budget structure – of which we know that in reality, it continues to lead to abysses since you need to find 9 billion by 2019 – all your economic policy would also be based on the non-indexing of pensioners' tax cuts, that is, on a few tens of millions that you are going to take from pensioners who have absolutely nothing to ask anyone. You say we don't spend the money we don't have. That's not what you're doing. You're going to look in the boarding house pocket. You deprive them of some of their income. That's what you're doing. It's easy to talk with other people's money, Mr. Piedboeuf!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-plenair-ip175x.u10	Mr. Laaouej, what you say is extraordinary. You say, on the one hand, that we will have to find EUR 9 billion and, on the other, you say that we must continue to spend. One day you'd have to explain to me how you come up with reasoning like that!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-plenair-ip175x.u11	Mr Piedboeuf, for example, by perhaps listening a little more to your partners from the majority, from the CD&V, who are proposing that you move forward on the field of fairer taxation.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-plenair-ip175x.u12	Well, we can do it!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-plenair-ip175x.u13	Wait! It seems they have a lot of good ideas but, obviously,...
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-plenair-ip175x.u14	So do we!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-plenair-ip175x.u15	They are visibly readjusted. You want additional resources, listen to your majority partners and leave pensioners in peace! You've had enough of them: an index jump – remember 2015 – that's irretrievable!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-plenair-ip175x.u16	This has been your theme since the beginning of the legislature.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-plenair-ip175x.u17	Wait, Mr. Piedboeuf! The increase in the price of medicines also affects pensioners, the increase in the VAT on electricity affects pensioners without being compensated by a reduction in taxes on income and, in addition, now, the maintenance of the freeze on the indexation of tax reductions! We have to stop now! There is an anti-pensioner obsession in the head of your government and I do not understand that someone like you, who has a lot of common sense, continues to accept that pensioners should be beaten up in this way. This is unacceptable!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-plenair-ip175x.u18	Absolutely not and you know it very well! You know very well that we have increased pensions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-plenair-ip175x.u19	Mr Piedboeuf, there is also a request from Mrs Smaers.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-plenair-ip175x.u20	Mr President, I understand from the opposition's point of view that it must oppose. The duty of the opposition is tooppose. However, I do not understand Mr Laaouej's rhetoric when he asks that there is justice in taxation and in pensioners. I'm about to fall off my chair, Mr Laaouej. You apparently missed the debates in the Committee on Business and Business this morning, and yesterday in the Committee on Social Affairs, when a draft law was adopted to increase the minimum pensions of both employees and self-employed persons. This government has, among other things, a very extensive wealth envelope at every budget discussion, Mr Laaouej, which is greater than the welfare envelope of the previous governments and which is very well used for the lowest benefits, the lowest incomes, the lowest pensions. The lowest pensions will be raised again, for self-employed and employees by 1.7 %. If you don't take that into account, you'll miss reality. The study of the National Bank of Belgium, to which we refer again and again, is based on an increase in the disposable income of families. There is no distinction between workers and pensioners there. Pensioners also do not lose to disposable income. In short, I do not quite understand where the opposition continues to achieve this without making the right arguments. Once again, justice is not just in the incomes of pensioners. We increase the purchasing power of the lowest incomes. The lowest incomes, including pensions, are improving. The tax shift has caused a whole shift and has led to a significant reduction in the burden on the lowest incomes. Job creation benefits us from focusing on the lowest incomes. In addition, there is the wealth envelope, of which 75% went mainly to the lowest incomes. So, saying that this government is doing nothing, or doing little for pensioners and lower incomes, and that there is no justice in policy, is attacking reality.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-plenair-ip175x.u21	Mr President, I would like to make a small correction on the lies about the price of medicines. I have added the figures of the FPS Economy. Since the beginning of this legislature, all pluses and minuses have been taken into account, the prices of the medicines have fallen by 2.2 %, with an invoice of 30 million euro for the patient. Perhaps that can be corrected in certain speeches. It is important to conduct the discourse on the basis of facts and not on the basis of populist lies.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-plenair-ip175x.u22	Mr President, I fully agree that the debate should be based on figures. Mrs Smaers, the previous government did not make an index jump. Do I have to explain it again? At an index jump, prices rise, but wages do not rise. The previous government didn't do that, so stop telling the story of the welfare envelope. The second correction, Mrs Smaers, is next. I made it very clear this morning that it is our government, but that I did not really choose it. The government you have chosen has not increased the minimum pensions. It has chosen to increase the minimum pensions provided that it has a full career of 45 years. That is what this government has decided to do. There was a difference for a week. One week, and rightly so, the ceiling for the highest pensions has been raised. I say again: rightly so. The following week, it would have been logical for the lowest pensions to have been increased, but this has been done on the basis of a full career. The social partners, ladies and gentlemen, have corrected this error in IPA. They have decided to devote part of the wealth envelope to this and not to apply the criterion of the full career of 45 years. That's what happened, Mrs. Smaers. Even so, this government is failing to fully implement what IPA has decided with employers and employees. After all, a distinction is still made between those who have had a full career of 45 years and those who do not. So don't say this government has done anything for the lowest pensions. No, Mrs Smaers, IPA and the social partners have devoted part of the wealth envelope to this, and indeed the government has taken that up and put it into a draft law, with a difference between those who have a career of 45 years and those who do not.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-plenair-ip175x.u23	I would like to correct some of your points, Mrs Temmerman. Firstly, I refer to the statements made by your former colleague and MP, Johan Vande Lanotte. When he was a minister, he also made adjustments to the index basket, which meant that a de facto index jump could be achieved. By adjusting the thermometer, de facto an index jump was realized. Is that when prices went up? Yes. Did anyone notice? The thermometer was simply modified so that one would not notice it, but of course one felt it. Secondly, you forget that our index jump was a social index jump. The lowest pensions and benefits have not experienced any index jump at all. The index jump has mainly been made to get our labour market competitive again. However, the lowest pensions have not experienced an index jump. In addition to the fact that they have not experienced an index jump, they have received an additional pension, thanks to the 100 % benefit of the welfare envelope and then 75%. Moreover, thanks to the socio-economic measures, we have been able to boost job creation in such a way that there is room to implement the indices and to raise wages at the top of the index. Such a thing has never been possible in the past legislature.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-plenair-ip175x.u24	Mr President, I am a little shocked when I hear Mr Laaouej say that we have done nothing about pensions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-plenair-ip175x.u25	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-plenair-ip175x.u26	Sir, I can't hear you. I'd like to tell you...
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-plenair-ip175x.u27	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-plenair-ip175x.u28	Let me finish! No, I don't! I don't think we have the same vision. You always say we attacked them. On the side of the majority, we have a different speech. I'll give you some numbers. From 1 September onwards, the pensions of the self-employed, which have been very little taken into account before, will be greatly increased. They will receive 151 euros more per month. It's not nothing, Mr. Laaouej. Don't tell me we're not doing anything about pensions. [[(...): (...)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-plenair-ip175x.u29	Mr. Laaouej probably doesn't like independents, that's one thing. He defends officials, teachers, etc., for whom I have the greatest respect. But I cannot agree with her that we would not have taken pensions into account. We have also reported other things. The "well-being" envelope will never have been larger than the one planned for 2017-2018, i.e. nearly 650 million euros. It seems to me that we are going to take over some of the minimum pensions and the self-employed. Don't say in a broad enough way that we don't do anything for pensions. )
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-plenair-ip175x.u30	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-plenair-ip175x.u31	But the money comes from our house, Mrs. Temmerman!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-plenair-ip175x.u32	I'm not used to insulting people. I heard, in Mrs. Van Camp's mouth, "populist lies." That being said, we must salute Mrs Van Camp. She put all her vocabulary in the same sentence. It is an objective achievement that we must salute. MR says we don't like independents. Ma'am, I'm not stopping you from saying that. I'm just saying that it's not because your policies are antisocial that you have to find in others vices that only exist in you. I'm sorry to tell you. Another recurring comment to the MR lately: "The previous government has not done enough for the independents". But who was minister in charge of the independents under the previous legislature? It was Mrs. Laruelle. It is not because she left you that you must continually overwhelm her. I'm saying that with the only index jump, you've been looking for over 300 euros in the pensioners' pocket. Now you're telling us that you're going to repair the damage you've caused. All that would be missing! For the rest, we're talking about minimum pensions. Ms. Temmerman deconstructed the argument. You cannot at the same time say that you are going to work on the minimum pensions, and on the other hand maintain the freeze of the indexation of tax reductions. That's the point I want to put forward. After that, you expanded the debate and convened all of your policy to better drown the fish; that was Mrs Smaers' rhetoric. For my part, I come back to a particular point. Since you are for the purchasing power of pensioners and the revalorization of pensions, re-establish the indexation of tax reductions. You will return 40 euros to pensioners immediately. Be consistent. You're not. It's a call for coherence. I do not appeal to your sense of justice, but to your sense of coherence, if it still exists.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-plenair-ip175x.u33	We always come back to the same logic. Ours is not to spend the money we don't have, but to continue intelligently to clean up. Every time we raise margins, we take advantage of the lowest income, including pensioners. We did it through the wellness envelope. Ms. Temmerman said that it was through union consultation. But who's leading it? It's us, too. We can discuss very well with the social partners. But we have the modesty of our condition and we know that challenges remain. It is simply necessary to continue on the path of reforms in order to meet the budgetary objectives and our commitments at European level. The latest figures from the Monitoring Committee are very recent and indicate that the 2017 budget is on track, but that for 2018, despite positive trends, there will still be efforts to be made to be part of the path of the Stability and Growth Pact. In the short term, as we know, the budget remains a challenge. The work is not done. We must continue to make efforts, to pursue fiscal consolidation – and not austerity, as Mr Magnette is used to saying – so that our commitments and duties can be respected. Structural reforms must not stop. There is obviously a need to reform corporate tax – the government will soon succeed – and implement the National Pact for Strategic Investments as soon as possible. In conclusion, the government is simultaneously working on fiscal consolidation and economic recovery to ensure our long-term social model, Mr. Laaouej. We must put our economy on the path of economic recovery and job creation. An increasing number of national or international economic bodies congratulate the Michel government on all the reforms it has undertaken. The fiscal consolidation started since the beginning of this legislature has led to a continuous reduction in the structural deficit since 2014. Efforts must continue to achieve balance. The path remains steep, but the will, enthusiasm and results already achieved reinforce us in our vision of a better future for future generations. We will therefore support this fiscal adjustment and the government. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-plenair-ip175x.u34	Mr Piedboeuf, there is one thing I have no doubt about, it is your enthusiasm! You know that. I've already told you, and I salute him. Do you know more about financing the investment plan than we do? It will not have escaped you that we have tried to have information; we do not have it. Perhaps the proximity of your group to the Prime Minister's office will enlighten us. Do you have any specific information on the investment plan? Or will it be like the tax shift, with an unfunded policy that will only worsen the debt, without thinking about how we can make better use of available resources, especially with structural financing based on a fairer tax policy, for example?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-plenair-ip175x.u35	Mr Laaouej, I am not going to tell you all the measures that the government is going to announce. On the other hand, you know that there must also be margins to make investments. In addition, you have also heard about "virtuous financing". "virtuous financing", for example in mobility, is financing that can bring economies of scale, an improvement in the economic climate. So, let's go on, of course. I also look forward to some of the information I do not have.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-plenair-ip175x.u36	Mr President, a few weeks ago we had an exchange of views with the Prime Minister on the investment pact. The Prime Minister announced that some investments from the federal level will be involved in the multi-annual investment programme with the available funds in the coming years, together with private investment. The aim is not only to make public investments, but also partly to work with private investments. Mr Laaouej, I would therefore like to reflect your question. The vast majority of investment is a budgetary matter for the regions and local authorities. The regions and local authorities can make the largest share of investment possible in our country. The federal government will therefore have to do a part, but I also think that the regions and local authorities should have the power to invest and to shape these investments together with the federal government.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-plenair-ip175x.u37	There's no response. I call Mr Van Rompuy.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-plenair-ip175x.u38	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Laaouej, you say that budgetary control is a non-event because nothing really changes. Well, something has changed fundamentally. Last year, when we carried out budgetary control, we were faced with falling tax revenue and with economic growth barely above 1%. The budgetary context has now changed completely. There is an economic spring in Europe and also in Belgium. Who would have thought that 220 000 jobs would have been created in this legislature in five years' time? This can be done narrowly by stating that the number is slightly lower than the average in Europe, but it is a huge breakthrough, also in view of an economic growth rate of 1.6 %, which allowed 50 000 jobs to be created. In the past, it was stated that growth of 2% was necessary to stabilise employment. Now we see a huge increase in the number of jobs and in 2019 the effectiveness rate will be 70 %. It can of course be said that this is the European context, that the government has nothing to do with this, but if the reverse were the case, if we had lost 50 000 jobs, if we had no employment policy, you would be the first to say that the government has failed. But she has taken responsibility, with that index jump, which is naturally socially critical, but he has increased competitiveness, with lower social contributions, with the law on competitiveness, with the wage bill. This leads to an increase in employment. Employment is growing faster in Flanders than in Wallonia. That's what we have to say. Let us look at the statistics. If employment growth were to be assessed by region, Flanders would be above average. Anyway, that's another discussion. The employment rate is increasing. The point on which we often differed is the real rise in household incomes. You've always disputed that. Well, look at the National Bank's report, look at the National Bank's spring forecasts, the real income growth of households will be 1.5 % in 2017, 2.3 % in 2018 and 2.2 % in 2019. We therefore have a real increase in incomes. Who could have thought that a few years ago? With an economic growth of 1.6 %, the real income of households will increase by more than 2 % in 2018 and 2019.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-plenair-ip175x.u39	Mr Van Rompuy, we have often had discussions about the evolution of disposable income. Over the past two years, we have seen either a decline or stability. This is abnormal, because in general, even when you have a little growth, you have an increase in disposable income as the factors of production earn all the economic actors. In other words, you have a mechanical increase in household incomes. I was pointing at a settlement and a slowdown, but different from those of previous periods. I speak in relative terms, in other words, by referring to changes in rates. You are talking about particularly low growth rates. So it's something that wasn't right. Second, there is a rise in disposable income in the face figures. Mr Van Rompuy, do you take into account inflation - which is more important in Belgium than in other countries - when you talk about a rise in net incomes?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-plenair-ip175x.u40	It is about real figures, income increases, which, of course, do not include inflation. That's the definition of real. This inflation is the general index of consumer prices. Some of the invoices you're talking about are in that index. Mr Laaouej, please be glad for five minutes that there is no doubt that employment will increase by 210 000 units, that families are making real progress, that these efforts have served something. Let me finish my argument, Mr Laaouej. In addition, Mrs Smaers has already mentioned this. Many elements show that. The tax shift is mainly for low wages. The living wage goes up by 6 %. If the index jump is deducted, it is 4 %. We have had the discussion on minimum pensions, on welfare envelopes, on small pensions. Social expenditure increased by EUR 10 million during this legislative period. The Minister for the Budget also stated in her statement that social expenditure on disability, pensions and unemployment increased from 19% in 2011 to 20.8 % in 2016. So social spending is going up. Social security is currently also at an enormous high level as a percentage of GDP, 25.3% according to the National Bank's statistics. It is therefore not right that the government has created employment and a higher real disposable income at the expense of the lower income classes. Many indicators prove otherwise.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-plenair-ip175x.u41	Mr Van Rompuy, you are telling us that disposable income is increasing. But what is the share that goes to the income of capital and what is the share that goes to the income of labour? This is the question that needs to be asked, because disposable income concerns all income. The breakdown between the two must be seen. How much goes to each other? I'll give you the figures from the National Bank. Comparing the fourth quarter of 2014 and the first quarter of 2017 - in short, more or less, since the government took office - the share of wages in national income increased from 53.4% to 48.3%, while capital income rose from 36.2% to 42.2%. We have more or less five or six points of GDP, billions, which have passed from the workers' pocket to the coffers of capital. That is the reality behind your "disposable income increase".
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-plenair-ip175x.u42	Mr President, I thank Mr Van Hees, who has just pointed out something that has often provoked debate between us, namely the breakdown of disposable income and its increase. This issue needs our attention. It is indeed a question of knowing who benefits from the economic policy that you are pursuing, Mr Van Rompuy. Are they the households or rather the owners of capital? We should be objectiveing things. Mr. Van Hees has just given us some guidance in this regard. I come to another aspect, Mr Van Rompuy. I would like to share with you, why not in the Finance Committee, a scientific exercise that would involve comparing the projections of the Planning Office and the National Bank in 2014 with those they are developing today in terms of job creation. In other words, we would compare the two curves to determine the net job creation balance. We would then know what, potentially, is attributable to your policy. I say 'potentially', because, as you have pointed out, there is obviously a need to integrate regional policies - especially since the sixth reform of the state, a large number of competences have been transferred and the regions have developed employment policies according to their respective realities. In Brussels, for example, with the "youth" guarantee, we have achieved quite impressive results in terms of re-employment of young people.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-plenair-ip175x.u43	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-plenair-ip175x.u44	Mrs Onkelinx, who is even more familiar with the figures than I am, will be able to give you more information. The Walloon Region, for its part, has obviously targeted young people, but also older workers. Here, too, there have been positive results.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-plenair-ip175x.u45	This means that in the net balance, which is already very far away from the 220,000 you are quoting, we will have to identify what falls under federal and regional policies. The number just given by Mr. Van Hees is interesting because it should be possible to ensure that the index jump, for example, which is a puncture on the wage bill or the reductions in social contributions which are reductions in operating expenses, does not, in reality, translate into increases in profits and dividends rather than additional recruitment. That's what we've been telling you all along. We believe in targeted employment policies, but these blank cheques are a mortgage that weighs on you since the start of your government's operation. So there's a work of decomposition to do. However, even if the net balance - i.e. 50,000, 80,000, in the best of terms - were to be identified, it would still have to be compared with the federal government's efforts to reduce social security contributions, which are fewer revenues to fund social security. It should be possible to identify a precise figure which is likely to amount to a few billion. And see, on the other hand, what the puncture on the payroll, accumulated each year, of the index jump - around eight billion, no doubt. Once all of this has been done, it still needs to be compared with the number of jobs created to see if it is worth it; whether the investments made by the government justify the number of jobs created, some of which are, in any case, attributable to the Regions. I am prepared to do this exercise with you in the Finance Committee. Because agitating the forecast figures of the Plan Office and the National Bank does not reflect the underlying economic reality and does not provide an accurate indication of the effectiveness of your policies. But we could do the exercise. I'm willing to do that.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-plenair-ip175x.u46	Mr Laaouej, we can indeed do that exercise, but in fact the National Bank has already made it in the annual report. Surely the National Bank is not a right-wing populist institution that enjoys everything that is liberal? Well, the annual report of the National Bank is a very balanced report. You may dispute that, but the National Bank uses the statistics of the High Council for Employment. This clearly shows that the labour market has become much more flexible and offers much more opportunities. We also discussed this in the Committee on Social Affairs. Employment in our labour market has clearly reached a new stage and there is now a trend break in employment. I shall come back to budgetary control. The annual report also shows a trend break in the budget. In the past, I have often been critical, and as you can see, I am still critical. However, we are now clear from the danger zone. We have been flirting for a long time with a deficit of 3%, but the current budget clearly focuses on a deficit reduction of 1.2 percent, the highest ambition in ten years. The government, through the Minister for the Budget, explains in the explanatory statement that the structural deficit for the federal government could fall below 1% and reach around 0.9 percent, around 4 billion euro. In nominal terms, it is about a reduction to 1.5 %, about 6.5 billion euros. It is certain that the deficit will be reduced. I already mentioned a trend break: we are all out of danger. We held extensive discussions in committee, including the European Commission and the Court of Auditors. We have also dealt with the new study by the National Bank on the budget deficit. According to those speakers and the study, we must remain cautious. The discussion that the government will have on the 2018 budget in the coming weeks should also start from the 2017 figures. After all, what happened? The holding tax generates higher revenues, almost an additional 0.5 billion, as a result of the growth in employment. Another issue is that corporate tax also pays much more. It is not very well known, but since 2010, corporate tax revenue has gone from 8 billion to about 14 to 15 billion. It is therefore not true that the corporate profits would be taxed less. We are seeing a very sharp increase there. This is also apparent from the statistics on collection. In the 2017 budgetary control, we are indeed establishing a reduction in the deficit, thanks, among other things, to the higher income of the company tax and corporate tax.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-plenair-ip175x.u47	Mr Van Rompuy, you took the series from 2008 to today, to show the evolution of corporate tax revenue. You said $8 billion. I draw your attention to the fact that there was the financial crisis Lehman Brothers. It's nobody's fault here. This crisis has more than drained corporate tax revenues. Before the Lehman Brothers crisis, corporate tax was around 12 billion euros. You have had a settlement that has reduced the revenue from corporate tax, and the phenomenon is also observable in terms of personal and consumer taxes. There has been a slowdown in economic activity. We have had economic growth close to zero. There has been a decline, a massive reduction in corporate tax. Starting the series in 2010 does not seem to me indicative of your demonstration. It is better to compare the evolution of corporate tax from 2014; then, I could understand. We could see if increases from year to year reflect the effect of the effectiveness of your economic policy or reflect, for example, on a large item of tax expenditure, namely notional interest, a decrease in their budgetary cost. What would it be related to? To the evolution of the OLO rate. The OLO rate has evolved so favourably that notional interests today – it is not the Minister of Finance who will contradict me – will cost almost nothing. Of course, when you have a reduction in a tax expenditure of such magnitude, you necessarily have an increase in corporate tax revenue that I am not going to complain about.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-plenair-ip175x.u48	That is another debate, but I just want to say that 2017 has been served by higher revenues from companies and, in general, by the company tax. There have, of course, also been reductions which have been clearly discussed with the Court of Auditors and to which the European Commission also points. The European Commission has reached 0,7%. In the view of the European Commission, if the government wants to achieve its objective of 1% structural deficit reduction by 2017, it still needs to do 0.3 %. That is the famous 1.3 billion that would be needed to achieve that 1% deficit reduction. The National Bank says the same thing. Why does the National Bank say that the nominal deficit will be 1.8 % in 2017 and not the government's 1.5 %? The National Bank says that there are differences in underutilisation, that a number of items such as tax regularisation, real estate investment funds, VAT and fraud will pay less than envisaged. That explains for a piece that the National Bank is higher in terms of nominal deficit. This was also recognised by both ministers, Minister Van Overtveldt and Minister Wilmès, who pointed out a number of issues. Overall, there is a trend break, but one has to be very careful. We hear these figures from the National Bank and the European Commission, which speak of 8 or 6 billion, and then we hear the Monitoring Committee, which talks about 3 billion, and then we get titles in the press like 'It's going to be a walk in the park' or 'The shortage melts like snow for the sun'. That is not the message that we had to take in our committee. There is indeed a serious deficit reduction, but there is still no clarity about the effort to reach a balance in 2018 and 2019. The European Commission points out that this year's deficit could amount to 1.6 % in structural terms. If an additional effort is made, that could be even lower. For 2018 she says we should be careful, because we have an unfunded tax shift and because the structural deficit can go up again. The same with the National Bank, which says that we will probably reach 1.8 % nominally in 2018, under unchanged policies. The Monitoring Committee speaks of 0.9 %. Actually, that's double. There's a difference of about 4 billion. We must all look at these figures in the context: nominally and structurally they are confused here. Unchanged policies do not mean that there are nominally the same things: there may be structural interventions that are higher year after year. We are, of course, facing an increase in employment over the next few years, which can give rise to higher revenues, which is very important. However, I think that this is a personal opinion that the macro-approach of the Planning Bureau, the European Commission and the National Bank creates a huge confusion with the micro-approach of the statistics of the administration and of the government. This gives the impression that certain things are being kept secret. How come, the National Bank says 8 billion and the government talks about 4 billion or 3.2 billion? We have therefore asked the European Commission on which it bases its figures. It replied to include these figures in the national administration, but to be more cautious than the government because it has no idea of certain measures such as tax regularisation and the proceeds of the withholding tax or VAT. It is also a problem for the government's perception that sometimes the monitoring committee's statistics are based on a level of achievement that may not yet exist. The budget is only a few months away, we still have to see what that gives. We must not lose sight of the fact that this government is still facing a very difficult task. As a group, we will not give up the balance of the budget in 2019. Nor should we do so because of the viability of our social system. If we do not achieve primary surpluses, we will never be able to reduce public debt. If everything goes well this year, fortunately we will have a primary balance again, which has been a long time ago. If all objectives are met, we end up with a primary surplus of 0.5 %. The European Commission also says that the primary balance should actually be much higher than 0.6%. That should actually be 2% if we want to reduce our debt in the future. The European Commission has also noted that Belgium does not currently fulfil the debt criterion. We must be able to achieve a higher primary surplus. That's important. After all, we are struggling with the sustainability or sustainability of our public finances. The reform of pensions will bring some relief. That is, however, in the long term. We must beware of the cost of ageing. We also see this in health insurance. The interest rate won't always be low either. We also note that, in five years' time, pensions cost EUR 7.3 billion more. That is almost EUR 1.7 to 1.8 billion more every year. We therefore need to strike a balance in the budget in 2019 and, above all, create primary surpluses. Otherwise, we will not be able to safeguard our social system. It is therefore still extremely important that the government, also with the budgetary control that is in place, realizes that it will not be a walk through the park and that it will not miss out on the figures as such. Behind each figure lies a reasoning. Nor should it overlook the fact that primary expenditure is falling. For the first time in 2017, we will be countries below 50%, which may also be underlined. However, the road is still long. There are a number of other problems facing the government. It concerns the so-called sacred trinity or the Trinity, which is the corporation tax, the added value tax and the activation of the savings. I don't know what Open Vld means by that activation, but I'll just call them that. That holy trinity will have to be discussed. For us, however, this must be done in a budget neutral context. The economy must be taken into account. Lower taxes must therefore also give incentives to our companies. The issue of fiscal justice is also an essential part of all this for us. In the Optima committee, we have succeeded in taking unanimous positions. One of the reasons for this was that all committee members complied with the discretion. They did not make any pre-names for certain measures. As a result, there was confidence and we reached unanimous conclusions. Well, I would like to appeal to the government, the ministers, but also to the party chairmen. On 31 July, they want countries in the budget debate and the debate on this sacred trinity. I call on them to stop making public statements, because every public statement is too many. She actually kills the intentions. I have no doubt that some people have a good intention of presenting their party, their profile or their personal points as crucial, but this is not the way to get out. It is our ambition as a CD&V to ensure that the budget in the following years will require heavy efforts, because thinking that one can achieve those savings without pain...
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-plenair-ip175x.u49	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-plenair-ip175x.u50	Mr Calvo, let me finish my sentence. I hope that we will find a good basis for the reforms in taxation, company tax, tax justice and also for other things that may be on the table. When we see how we evolve socio-economically, the balance is positive. Budgetary opportunities are created by the higher revenues that we can have thanks to economic growth and job creation and by a number of measures that will only be implemented in the long term and which will partly compensate for the negative evolution of tax shift revenues. We have an historic opportunity to intervene now, but then the confidence must be clear. Parliament, at least the majority, is loyal. We have approved budgetary control within the normal time limits. We are also trying to conduct the discussions seriously. I would also like to thank the rapporteurs for their reports. If you read these texts on the discussions with the Court of Auditors and the European Commission correctly, then I would also like to thank all those who have taken the floor and those who have given them a very balanced and thorough picture. This must form the basis for the government to reach a balanced compromise in the autumn.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-plenair-ip175x.u51	Thank you, Mr Van Rompuy, for your fervent plea. I have seen that Mrs Wilmès is very satisfied with your explicit support for budgetary adjustment. You are announcing a period of silence.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-plenair-ip175x.u52	Maybe I can make a counter move? If the Political Renewal Committee has not succeeded, it is because of 101 statements by members of the political groups who caused a cacophony, so that results could no longer be achieved.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-plenair-ip175x.u53	I'll reassure you. Even I'm not convinced that nothing came out of that. This is a debate that we are going to have tomorrow with the Prime Minister. I have invited other groups to discuss this today. With regard to your announced or requested period of silence, I am, of course, very curious to see how long this majority will last. Last time, this was the full 24 hours. Imagine if we really succeed, then I suggest that we use the period that we have left to engage in a frank and free debate. I would therefore like to put my finger on you, as the Bernie Sanders of this House, the ambassador of Christian Democratic tax justice.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-plenair-ip175x.u54	A right-wing variant of that.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-plenair-ip175x.u55	You can see how difficult it is for me to support you. I'm gonna get...
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-plenair-ip175x.u56	You are called the new Macron, but it is too right again.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-plenair-ip175x.u57	Soon that period of silence may begin. I should like to know again from you, Mr Van Rompuy, what the commitment is for you, as a Christian Democrat, in the area of fiscal justice. One cannot ignore the fact that Mr Dewael said yesterday that the added value tax will not be introduced. I wanted to put a wrist on you before that period of silence really starts, which is actually your ambition at that point.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-plenair-ip175x.u58	Mr Calvo, I believe that our group has said on several occasions what can be a number of elements of fiscal justice. We have also said that this cannot be taken or left, because there are many variations of fiscal justice possible. The OECD is talking about the capital gain tax. The question is how this can be achieved, for whom and in what circumstances. The worst thing that can be done is to say what can and cannot be done. However, it is clear to our group that this will be part of the agreement to be reached. Negotiations on this matter took place in the streets last year. Last October, things were put on the table. This has not led to a result. The Minister of Finance also put forward a reform of corporate taxation last year, but that proposal will not be the same. It is the power of politics to come to a comparison, in which everyone can take his gram. In the Optima Committee, not everyone agreed with every aspect, Mr Van Biesen, but we succeeded in making agreements. Well, a budget discussion, as we have had one in recent weeks, must take place internally. We have had a long and in-depth discussion in committee, not least Mr Calvo. We did not always agree, but Mr Laaouej and others certainly contributed. I say here, on behalf of the Members of Parliament who have cooperated, to the government that budgetary consolidation remains a priority for us and that we want serious figures. That should be possible. I repeat, Mr Calvo and everyone here, we must reduce the profile we have seen in politics over the last few months. I'm not just talking about our country right now. That is the case everywhere, in the United States and in other countries. Politicians believe that they have to profile themselves every hour of the day via Twitter or other social media, or through interviews in newspapers. This is how people block each other, and that leads to nothing. I hope that in the coming months we will be able to have a break in Belgian politics, a kind of calmness. Quiet firmness, that's a quote from my brother, not from me. I'm getting older. I'm starting to plead for peace in politics. It is my deep conviction that solutions are possible, but then everyone must be prepared to put water in the wine. We must seize the historic opportunity we now have, with a strong economy, with increased employment and with a budget in which there is some trend break. We are without doubt out of the danger zone, but there are still a lot of Himalayas in front of us.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-plenair-ip175x.u59	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the fact that we have devoted so much time to discussing budgetary control is not really common practice. Like the previous speaker, I believe that the disappointing figures of the 2016 budget path have made our committee extremely vigilant. This has meant that we have devoted a great deal of time to budgetary control. We have heard all possible bodies and I must say quite frankly that, unlike some others, I feel reassured. In the end, the government was very well on course. It has the merit of controlling both expenditure and revenue. Both ministers have, I believe, been able to submit more than a good report. In the end, the Monitoring Committee decided that an effort of EUR 313 million should be made. However, it is to the government's credit that it has taken the opportunity, as a good father, to partially maintain the initial budget buffer of EUR 559 million. Mr Van Rompuy, this is in line with a good Flemish tradition, where we have been working for years with a cyclical commission, i.e. 1% of the revenue from the combined and shared taxes, which allows us to cope with certain fluctuations in revenue and expenditure, without having to carry out budgetary work in September or October. I call on the government to consolidate that mechanism. You may give it to me as a name, which you choose, but it must be an automatism that, on the revenue estimates, a buffer is set at a certain level that allows us to cope with shocks. We congratulate you on that. It has also allowed you to take 60 million new initiatives. That was portrayed here as the proverbial budget shots, but 60 million is for me already a bit older than I am still 2.4 billion Belgian francs. I still experience that as an extraordinary amount of money. The effort was therefore more than 900 million. You have managed to make that effort without levying new taxes and, above all, by achieving the goal through corrections and adjustments. Mr and Madam Minister, the discussion is not over. In any case, the focus of the budget has already shifted to what will happen in 2018-2019. I must honestly say that I was also surprised at the discrepancy between the figures on the table today. There are estimates of venerable institutions such as the National Bank and the Federal Planning Office, which speak of 8 billion, while the own Monitoring Committee, which is usually best placed to monitor the evolution of revenue, speaks of 4 billion, assuming expenditure remains under control. Everything, of course, has to do with what we have said a few times in committee and in plenary. If we manage to restore economic growth to the European average, as far as I am concerned, the ambition may even be somewhat greater, given the results achieved in certain regions of the Community, which will immediately be converted into more tax revenue, which will allow us to achieve the budget path. I think it is important to maintain that ambition until 2019. We need to be realistic and sober in this: the main objective is to consolidate economic recovery, which will generate a return on revenue which will ultimately enable us to achieve our objectives in a way that will involve as many people as possible in economic activity without very heavy savings. Mr and Madam Minister, however, the effort remains very strong. I shall therefore not go along with my colleague Eric Van Rompuy on his own. We still face a number of important challenges. We must dare to draw up this ambitious project in the next few days, weeks and months. After all, I expect that in September, when we get the new economic forecasts, we will get better figures, which will allow us to fold the budget in the right direction. Let us also assume that we will keep expenditure under control. There has been a great deal of talk about this; Mr De Roover can confirm that. Much has already been saved, but with a 50% government surplus we cannot yet be satisfied. There is still work to be done, although every minister has to take responsibility in his or her department. I believe that the time has come to re-establish a cooperation agreement between the federal government, entity I, and the regional authorities, the regions and the Communities, as well as the provinces and municipalities, entity II, in such a way that the commitment towards Europe is made jointly. I've been working on it once and I have to say that it's a fun exercise. When I finally see what comes in at the top of revenue, both through the federal government and social security, and what remains of it as a policy space for the federal government, everyone will understand what I mean by my discourse. I note that, in certain regions, some budget headings, and not the least, record an increase of 5% to 6%. I find that very luxurious and I wonder if we will get there in that way. We must do our budgetary work properly with the focus on the recovery of our economy. That recovery is in full swing. I have to say quite frankly, and we are here with a number of anciens in this regard, that it has been a difficult process more than ever. You remember the fourth trimester of 2008, with the start of the banking crisis in America. In 2009, Belgium had to collect the direct hit with Fortis, Dexia, Ethias and KBC. It has cost us an enormous amount of effort and money, with negative economic growth of more than 3%. The finding that we are moving from.. 3.5 % to.. 1.6 % means a huge course, which was finally run by many in the interim period from 2009 to 2017. Let us now take advantage of the opportunity to further achieve the goals. Job creation is indeed on full swing and now stands at 216 000 jobs according to the National Bank of Belgium or 242 000 according to the Planning Bureau. It will be a matter of concern to me, because the order of magnitude of these figures speaks to the imagination. I am from a generation that entered the labour market in 1981. Then there was a deep economic crisis, where all kinds of statutes were created to give people jobs. That wasn't the right way. Your government is trying to create jobs in the private sector through people who take on an independent activity and thus become the engine of our economy effectively. The result is that unemployment is falling, albeit not enough. We are on the lowest figure in two decades, which also speaks to the imagination. People's purchasing power is increasing. I listened very carefully to the forward and re-debate. We can talk about the 0,x %. In the end, however, purchasing power will increase substantially during the current period of government. Well, let's put it that way. It is, of course, rising as a result of the tax shift, which is getting more and more felt. My fourth point is that our companies are also reviving the economy. They invest. I see it on the fields myself. They work on full capacity. This means that the second step they need to take is to reinvest in materials, equipment and people. We have to prepare for that. After all, it is the only way, as we used to say, to ensure that the cake can grow, so that we can maintain and guarantee the social security key. Ladies and gentlemen, let us also face the truth. We are indeed in Belgium with an employment rate of 67.5%, but there are very large regional differences. What I don't want to do is point the finger, because that makes no sense. I would like to call on you to consider how we can correct the gigantic geographical mismatch. Is it not time for the Federal and Regional Ministers of Labour to come together to see how labour mobility can be increased, how training and the quality of the labour force can be increased, because there is a huge demand for it? In the Antwerp region there is a huge shortage of labour in petrochemicals. I would say to all friends: they pay well, why don't we go into those jobs? An employment rate of almost 72% in Flanders and 58.7% in Brussels remains unacceptable. We must try to ensure, through new measures and a global approach through flexibility and mobility, that the workforce can be used to give them a new future. The appeal and message of this government is jobs, jobs, jobs. More than ever, this is the adagio we are going for. We have made a calculation exercise worth what it is worth, but if we were to be at the employment rate of the Netherlands tomorrow, this would mean that we should be able to fill in 660 000 jobs. In this way we can ensure that we move from a structural deficit to a structural surplus. I believe that this should be the ambition in the following years, beyond party boundaries, as Mr Van Rompuy said. Let us work on this together. We're more than halfway. This government's position is more than positive: it reduces public debt, reduces public deficits, reduces taxes on citizens and businesses, increases purchasing power and allows companies to invest and recruit more. Dear friends, we said, this is a top achievement, to the regret of whom it envies.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-plenair-ip175x.u60	Mr President, Madam President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, it will not surprise you that my speech is slightly different from that of the last speaker, without me being pessimistic. Moreover, I am always very optimistic and positive, Mr Van Mechelen, although some of us do not notice. So much for the personal test. On budgetary control 2017, I can be quite brief, ladies and gentlemen. This budgetary control started in March, but was actually done before it started. Budgetary control was announced as a piece of cake, a walk in the park, and was finished on a trot. We were very euphoric and after hearing a number of colleagues earlier, this euphoria continues. Among other things, the chairman of the committee, Mr Van Rompuy, made a number of comments, as did Mr Van Mechelen. We may, however, temper that euphoria a little bit. Let us take a look at a number of measures relating to budgetary control itself. The budgetary targets had already been adjusted in advance, downwards. In this way it was not difficult to achieve the objectives. In addition, the hot hangs have been parked around the corporation tax and the added value tax. Hopefully both will be discussed. Mr Van Rompuy has just said that he too hopes that both measures can still be implemented. We'll see what happens. In any case, it is a missed opportunity to use budgetary control to implement both measures. Jobs. It's true that jobs were created. I am very happy about that myself. Those jobs are very important. No one in this hemisphere will deny this. However, we also know that this does not help the structural balance, because the economic context must be left out of it. I'll come back later on those jobs. In fact, this check consists of a number of corrections. Moreover, some of these corrections are very debatable. Two thirds of the amount of 900 million euros is magical to Minister Van Overtveldt. Let's go over this. The tariff reduction of the notional interest by 325 million euros. We have had heroic discussions on this in committee. Mr Minister, it is still very strange that the EUR 325 million is now included in this budgetary control, because there has been no change in the rates and the whole method of calculation was already known in the budget. It is therefore still a great mystery why we now add EUR 325 million. This figure was already known when the budget was drawn up. I'm not saying this, that says both the Court of Auditors and the administration. The administration has said twice that it does not understand where the EUR 325 million comes from. The Court of Auditors has repeated this, but the European Commission has also confirmed, despite the new calculations, that it does not understand why the EUR 325 million is now being introduced, because this amount was already in the original budget format. Actually, they have the same story with the excess profit rulings. There too, as since last year, people know that they have been stopped and now suddenly they are producing an additional EUR 100 million, whereas since the initial budget was drawn up, nothing has changed at all. Nor has any measure been taken to legitimise this additional budget. That is what the administration of finance, the Court of Auditors and the European Commission say. Then the return on tax regularization. The administration estimates that this 100 million will pay less for the federal government than envisaged in the initial formatting. According to the Monitoring Committee, the reason is that part of the proceeds go to the regions as a result of the cooperation agreements. We all know that. Anyone who comes to regularise his or her mixed capital federally will have to pass on part of the levy to the Regions. The administration doesn't want this, half less. However, the Minister adds half to it. On the basis of which that happens, neither the Court of Auditors nor the European Commission can declare. Then there are the real estate funds. Once again, the Minister makes EUR 50 million in the proceeds proposed by the administration. There is no calculation of this either. Finally, the Minister sees a one-off income of EUR 90 million in the withholding tax, while the administration did not charge that income. Again, the Court of Auditors says that it has no explanation for this. As I said, the European Commission has serious questions about these amounts. Mr Van Rompuy said just now, she even announced that 0.3 percent of the effort is still needed for this year; that is the famous 1.3 billion, or more than the 900 million of the budgetary control that has been done. Ladies and gentlemen, in other words, that budgetary control, which must once again put forward a number of things in the direction of balance, was a measure of nothing. Not only do we say that, not only does the opposition say that, also important bodies such as the Court of Auditors and the European Commission say that, but they do not say it in those terms, that is correct. Whoever says it, in these terms, Voka, is not the most leftist group. Voka says that this is a government in current affairs, that budgetary control is one big disappointment: "The first half of the legislature played the government very well, but at the beginning of the second half I saw nothing. Let us now go back to the evaluation of the first half of this legislature, which is what we are talking about in the end. The economy. Economic growth, ladies and gentlemen, is higher than before. That is right, and that is a good thing, and we are all happy about that too. Who wouldn't be? And there's gonna be jobs. Once again, we consider this to be a very good thing. This also means, however, that I believe that Mr Van Rompuy and Mr Van Mechelen have referred to this point, and that the economic context cannot be used to avoid serious budgetary control and not to improve budgetary performance. That is what the European Commission is saying. The European Commission says literally: "However, the continuous improvement of macroeconomic conditions means that they can no longer be considered as an important mitigating factor in explaining the gap in relation to the prospective debt benchmark." Ladies and gentlemen, we can discuss for a long time the cause of the additional jobs. The most important thing is that it also applies to me and my party. It is true that we are still systematically below average European growth, including in our job creation, and that is not normal. In the previous legislatures, we were above average, but now below average. We are getting the same picture in employment. Again, I am very pleased that there is more employment, but it is also true that, over the period 2012-2014, employment evolved by an average of 0.3% per annum compared to employment in the euro area, under very difficult economic conditions, as Mr Van Mechelen has just mentioned. Now that percentage is lower.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-plenair-ip175x.u61	Mrs. Temmerman, you do know the story of the statistician who drowned in a river half a metre deep on average? That is, of course, because averages are used, which means that they are not the same everywhere. You should look not only at the figures in their entirety, but also at the underlying basis of those figures, at the underlying differences in those figures. Let us look at the figures on job creation. It is true that the previous government has created jobs; no one will deny that. The current government also creates jobs. However, it is not about the same jobs. The job creation of the previous government was mainly due to an increase in government employment and subsidised employment. That's why they're not worthless jobs, because I have every respect for those people. I think we are right to invest a lot of money in education and health care. The workers in these sectors make very valuable contributions. However, the summary of the story is that these jobs, even if worth it, cost tax money. The current government's job creation is opposed to that. It is now mainly about job creation in the private sector. The companies are creating the jobs now, not the government. The government does, however, create the framework, the policy within which companies can grow and create jobs. This private job creation is about jobs that generate taxpayers' money. That's sustainability. A job is a job. That could be a big difference. The basis of job creation is fundamentally healthier than in the previous government. That's one thing. Secondly, when it comes to growth in general, when public spending is squeezed out, growth is also created in the short term, but that is boomerang. This will come back, because afterward we will have to pay the costs. Many other European countries have experienced slightly lower growth in recent decades, since the financial crisis, than Belgium, because they have been engaged in reforms and savings. Thanks to the reforms they have carried out, they have created a basis, allowing them to take a flying start today and be much stronger in terms of growth than Belgium. The best example of this is the Netherlands, which has suffered a severe downturn due to the crisis, which has gone deep in the area of reforms, but which is currently in surplus in the budget thanks to the reforms it has carried out. In Belgium, we have only started to implement reforms in the last two to three years. We are lagging behind because, in the previous legislature, too much was devoted to public employment. We are now focusing on private employment. This is the way to sustainable growth and sound public finances.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-plenair-ip175x.u62	I would just like to add one element. We have to compare apples with apples. A good example is to compare Belgium and Flanders with the Netherlands. We had other mechanisms that have made the crisis less intense among our employees. Let me give you an example. We have systems where people could temporarily enter unemployment, the technical unemployment. At the time the economy started to grow, these people were able to convert their technical unemployment back into work. In the Netherlands those jobs were gone and the people were recruited again afterwards. If we get rid of that statistically, we won't get far from each other.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-plenair-ip175x.u63	It is strange that your party in the previous legislature did make the comparison with the neighbouring countries on employment and we are suddenly not allowed to do so anymore. I want to say something about these jobs. Again, job creation is very important to us, because people are acting as if it is not the case for us. That is very important and we very much welcome the fact that this is happening. However, we still have to see, first of all, whether the jobs created by the current government are truly sustainable jobs, because flexi jobs are not sustainable jobs. I think we agree on that. We will also have to see in the future, I hope it is with you whether it is sustainable jobs. I come from the same period as Mr Van Mechelen. Almost all of my generation has been able to work thanks to the investments of the government, which it did then. That was indeed job creation. There are many employees who still work with such statutes. So in a few years' time let's see if those jobs are really sustainable. If you do not care, Mr Dedecker, perhaps you could go out for a discussion. I can take a joke, but the courtesy still demands that people listen to each other. I'll try as much as I can. Secondly, we will still have to see what many of those jobs that have now been created in addition have to do with taxes, perhaps direct taxes. If we make social contributions so low that there is virtually no social contribution, we can choose to do so, and that is worthy of discussion, then the question arises as to whether this will secure our social security in the future. Those are all questions for the future. It is still a fact, and it is not even necessary to involve all European countries, that we remain below the average compared to the neighbouring countries. Finally, I would like to talk again about inflation, ladies and gentlemen. Those who are in favour of liberal thinking must be allergic to high inflation. I don't understand at all. Belgium is Europe's big inflation champion, and that is not something to be satisfied with. Since the start of the government, Belgian inflation has been on average one percent higher every year than in the euro area. That's not comparing apples to pears, inflation is inflation. Colleagues, the ambition was to achieve a budget balance by 2018, which was now postponed to 2019. The National Bank also announced on 13 June that an effort of 1.9 % of GDP or 8 billion is still needed. There is a debate on whether it is 4 or 8 billion, but Mr Van Rompuy and Mr Van Mechelen also referred to the need to pay attention to this. Let's compare, ladies and gentlemen. Do you remember what effort the government had to make at the beginning of this legislature? That was 11 billion. We are in half this legislature at 8 billion. So the government didn't work that well. Whether it is the 4 billion of the Monitoring Committee remains to be seen. We know why that is, Mr Van Mechelen. The National Bank, the Planning Office, the European Commission, these three bodies say it is 8 to 9 billion. You don't seem to think these bodies are important, but they say so. In addition, as Mr Van Rompuy also points out, the optimistic figures of the Monitoring Committee are strongly influenced by the projected income from corporate taxes. Those revenues aren't sure. In recent years, we have had to recognise that these forecasts can be reasonably disappointing. Let's hope that's not the case. A very important other cause of the surprising outcome of the Monitoring Committee is the one-off correction resulting from the Finance Act. Thus a one-off measure will not help our structural deficit. The ambition was to achieve a balance in 2018. We've already moved to 2019. The fact that we are going from EUR 11 billion to EUR 8 billion says a lot about budgetary policy over the last two years. My conclusion is that budgetary control is a missed opportunity in March. No measures were taken. Only corrections were made. Moreover, these corrections are debatable. Budgetary control was also a missed opportunity, because every sensitive discussion was postponed every time. The decision will now be taken on 31 July on two issues. We will see if fair taxation will come about, how much some parties have weighed in the discussion. Everything's being postponed. The mobility budget is being postponed. Green taxation is being postponed. For all these reasons, ladies and gentlemen, we will not approve this budget.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-plenair-ip175x.u64	In the introduction, I would say that this budgetary adjustment is a little like that of this House this afternoon, a little sparse, not quite attentive, with colleagues from the majority who overestimate their appreciation of this exercise a little bit. I consider this budgetary adjustment to reflect the encephalogram of the majority, a little amorphous, no colour, no flavour, no perspective. In the Finance Committee, I said that it was already overtaken by the facts because three conclaves were announced. I have to withdraw my remarks because the conclaves stopped first. It was thought that ambitious actions would call into question the figures for budgetary adjustment, but this is not the case and it is problematic. What are the main trends, the major structural difficulties of the budget under this government? The first concerns the Minister of Finance, which is the tax revenue. The Court of Auditors shall state the extent to which tax revenues are overvalued and not justified. However, they are accepted from a budgetary point of view by your colleague, the Minister of Budget. When you do the account, announced revenues do not arrive, which creates a deficit. Moreover, the efficiency of revenue collection – I am not talking about tax increases but about the actual collection of tax – is non-existent. We are still waiting for the 600 additional agents you have announced to the Special Tax Inspectorate (SI). FPS Finance officers, month after month, denounce not only their working conditions, but also their ability to properly collect taxes and effectively combat financial crime. The current commissions are proof of this, whether it is the Panama Papers Commission or the Kazakhgate Commission. They are really the poor parent and it is billions of euros of tax due that escapes the community. I do not propose new taxes, but I ask that our State be able to collect what is due and combat tax evasion as a whole. You have inherited, Mr. Minister of Finance, the powers of Secretary of State Sleurs, of which everyone has already forgotten that she had been in charge of the fight against tax fraud. Well, we desperately await the first effective steps in your leadership on this matter. This also applies to the Minister of Justice who must be able to appoint in the right places the cadres capable of putting an end to this tax evasion. When there is a hole in the bathtub, you have to fix it rather than open the faucet more. I think that those billions that escape tax would be useful for other policies. A second major trend, which is not contradicted by this budgetary adjustment, is the social damage which is the result of linear social savings. I hear the replying colleagues, Mrs Smaers and others, that minimum pensions have been increased. Yes, indeed, it is necessary. These measures are supported provided that, in their translation, they respect the agreement of the social partners, which is not entirely the case. However, the increase in the minimum pension does not even compensate for other social savings measures, including the most dramatic index jump, or, as mentioned earlier, the non-indexation of tax exemption scales for pensioners. All this creates, gradually, a situation of growing poverty that will have costs. Mr Van Rompuy, you are talking about the growing net income of Belgians, but I think that such an analysis can only be made by at the same time analysing the distribution by decile of income of this increase. I do not think that it can be said, as you are doing a little bit quickly, that this increase in income mainly benefits low and middle incomes, which in economics would be the most effective. Indeed, the low and middle incomes convert their increase in income into consumption that makes the internal economy work, which is not the case for the highest deciles. Nor can I share the majority's dissatisfaction with job creation. I never thought a government was creating jobs. This is a first thing I would like to correct: we can create the conditions for job creation, indeed. There is this figure of 100,000 job units that you regularly use and that is not spectacular compared to previous years, which does not say anything about the cost per job created. Mr Dedecker said that, at least, these were not subsidized jobs, but on the contrary, they were. When we decide to reduce social security contributions or create jobs without social security contributions, from my point of view, these are subsidized jobs. Nor is there any question about the quality of the jobs created. Are these jobs that will allow workers to live in dignity, settle and start a family? No, that's not the case, most often! What is the quality of the job today? The costs of occupational diseases are seen to explode as part of a transfer between the "pensions" and "occupational diseases" budgets. We see the phenomenon of burn out which is increasing very strongly. There is a new social category that is that of poor workers. Mr Van Rompuy, I prefer 100 000 more jobs than 100 000 fewer jobs. I would like 200 000 of this quality and in sectors of the future that are turning our economy around, because the third characteristic that I can attribute to this budgetary adjustment is that it has no positive reforms. Reforms have been announced by the majority and remain in practice. We were going to reform corporate tax and, as ecologists, we are seeking specific measures for SMEs and self-employed people who create local employment and who, unlike others who benefit from extremely costly tax niches for the budget, are almost forced to pay the nominal corporate tax rate. We believe that removing costly tax niches, whose economic efficiency is more than in doubt, as well as reducing the nominal rate to be paid by SMEs and self-employed people, would be useful. This reform is still in progress, as are all reforms relating to tax justice. One of four components of the federal government advocates a form of contribution on market capital gains. It is logical that income from capital should also be used progressively, as is the case with income from labour. Another component of the government proposes to mobilize savings. Subject to analysis, this seems to us to be an interesting idea. It also remains in check, like these potentially promising projects: an energy pact, necessary to meet our climate commitments and international challenges, or all the challenges of mobility. Of course, you can tell us that the government has announced a major public investment plan. This large investment plan is interesting from a theoretical point of view, and shows that the government also has a green component, since it is recycling! You recycle expenses that were planned, announced, including the purchase of aircraft to replace the F-16s. And you call it an investment plan. For environmentalists, this is not an investment plan. The proposals we have already made and will continue to make are aimed at mobilizing private savings and public investment capacity for projects that are structuring and meaningful. Projects that are job-structuring, multiplicative, which solve key problems, such as mobility. The lack of mobility due to the congestion of our cities costs billions of euros each year, in addition to polluting the atmosphere and making the inhabitants of cities sick. As far as energy efficiency and the development of renewable energy are concerned, there is really much to be done. Investing in innovative sectors is essential, rather than conducting one shot operations. Mr Van Rompuy, I know you are very attentive to what is being done, and I cannot understand how you agree without reacting to the fact that we are selling part of our capital invested by default and by force in BNP Paribas, without the result of this resale being affected otherwise than by the reduction of the debt. You accept that we are considering raising some of Belfius' capital on the stock exchange, without having a vision of what will become of this public bank today. I hope that you are already thinking about the next budgetary targets. This is March; it is June; it is overtaken by events. I'll make it up to you. There are examples elsewhere in Europe to follow. I am thinking in particular, and I have mentioned it, of Germany and its policy of investing in renewable energy. I am thinking of the public capital tools it is developing to support, precisely, SMEs and the self-employed, to support citizens' energy efficiency choices, to support the ecological transition. It's the KfW public bank. Surprise us! As part of the next budget, put on the table projects that would emerge from this somewhat amorphous dynamic, which would give colour, flavour and perspective to our budgets. This adjustment is desperately lacking; that is why we will not support it.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-plenair-ip175x.u65	I call Mrs Smaers.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-plenair-ip175x.u66	Mr President, Mr Van Rompuy has already made our statement.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-plenair-ip175x.u67	In that case, Mr Van Hees has the floor. We must respect the order... [[Brouhahaha]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-plenair-ip175x.u68	If I can interrupt the PS-cdH friendliness, I'll... [[Brouhahaha]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, it is not because I rise to the rostrum that it will take longer! But that's it, there's four shutters. The first is tax revenue, which once is not customary, is in a certain fog, with an overvaluation. It is a recurrent criticism of the Court of Auditors and the European Commission, which systematically emits a series of your revenues because it is not serious, because they are not based on anything. When you see that the revenue does not reach what was planned, the question is whether you are using a wrong calculator, Mr. Minister of Finance, or whether it is voluntary. For example, on notional interests, your refusal to explain to you on the FPS Finance note raises questions. It is also known, for example, that on the transparency tax, there is an organised and voluntary non-transparency on the revenue of the tax. That's classic! This government is also pursuing a tax shift that is triple unfair. Unfair, first of all, because we reduce a progressive tax, the tax of natural persons, to increase proportional taxes: VAT, excises, household prepayments... We reduce a tax more or less just to increase unfair taxes. Then it is unfair because only 20% of the tax reduction for natural persons benefits the poorest 50% of the population, while the remaining 80% goes to the richest 50%. Finally, it is unfair because of the intruder of the tax shift: a gift of 6 billion to the employers in the form of reductions in social contributions. There is also, in this tax revenue, the fact that reality is catching up somewhere with the lame arguments of the government. Indeed, this increase in taxes on consumption that you have imposed on all budgets since the beginning, you usually justify it by health, the environment, excise duties on alcohol, on tobacco, etc. It's always classic alibi. It's not new. We remember the health index that already dates back to the non-anticipating years, I think, where we were already using that string. But here, indeed, you are caught up in reality. What criticism were you given? Either these taxes have a budgetary effect, or they have an effect on health policy, on environmental policy, but we cannot have both. Either it's one, or it's the other. Here you are caught up in this reality. For example, with tobacco taxes, we do see that there is a decrease in excise revenues on tobacco, hence your desire, Minister, to reduce excise duties on tobacco, to increase cancers a little at the same time, in order to obtain budgetary revenues. Then you went back and said that you were misunderstood. Your shift is quite damaging from a public health point of view, but it shows the false pretexts of your increases in consumption taxes. Also in this chapter, there is the non-fight against tax evasion. The European Commission does not believe in the government's tax evasion measures and therefore does not take these revenues into account. There is a permanent tax amnesty. We can discuss the figures, what goes into the caisses, but for me the main question is what is the long-term negative effect of this permanent tax amnesty which ultimately, by inciting tax fraud, brings less revenue into the state funds, in the long term anyway. There's still a recent case, Minister. This is your blockage at European level on intermediaries in tax arrangements. You were asked about this in plenary last week, which shows that Belgium is playing a role in the fight against tax fraud. Not only do we do too little, but we stop even when other countries take initiatives! There's your bill that passed in plenary last week on the so-called fight against tax fraud, but it's an empty bill, in which we don't find anything a little substantial, including some of the measures you announced when you took over Elke Sleurs. You oppose a systematic refusal when I propose, like other colleagues, a measure recommended by the OECD, which is being applied in different European countries, namely to have a specific tax unit to control our greatest fortunes. Indeed, through the various leaks, such as the Panama Papers or the Malta Files, we see a particular behavior among the richest. I'm not even talking about the richest 1% here. Gabriel Zucman, a specialist in tax havens, talks about the richest 0.01%, so the richest percent in the richest percent. At home, the probability of having an offshore account is 70%. The income fraud rate is more or less 2 per cent in the general population; in this category, 30 per cent of income avoids tax. There is a lot of money to go for, but it requires a special unit as the OECD recommends for this particular category of taxpayers, which you have explicitly refused. Finally, there are the recurrent protests of the finance staff. Finance officials can no longer cope with the continuing decline in staff and demonstrate. They are likely to conduct union action in the coming days. Clearly, they're not satisfied with your answers, and I'm not even talking about the ISI, the special tax inspection, to which you promised another 100 comptrollers. Between 2015 and 2016, there was no increase of 100, but rather a decrease of 15. So we're getting a decrease! Nor can tax revenues rely on capital gains on shares. The CD&V proposed this, saying that capital gains on shares would be taxed. Today, we turned this into something weird, confused, a "just tax". A specific request was eliminated to replace it with a general and confusing request which showed, somewhere, the failure of the CD&V which had sought to obtain this measure within the coalition. Let us move on to the second part, the budgetary balance that is carried forward from year to year. Initially, it was announced for 2017, then 2018; it became 2019. At some point, we will no longer be able to postpone because the legislature will be over.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-plenair-ip175x.u69	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-plenair-ip175x.u70	I was just about to get there!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-plenair-ip175x.u71	Mr President, Mr Van Hees, first of all, I have seen Jean-Pierre Van Rossem sitting in the same chair as you. I don't know if you remember Jean-Pierre Van Rossem with the list of ROSSEM. It's been almost 20 years. Mr Van Overtveldt, he was an economist. He studied economics in Ghent. He was a monitor Economy and wrote articles, maybe not in Trends but in Humo. But he knew something about economics. However, the PTB starts here about a budget balance in 2018 or 2019. Mr Van Hees, are you actually in favour of a balanced budget? Secondly, not me, but Philippe Defeyt of Ecolo, who is taken very seriously, has calculated that your programme costs a minimum of EUR 50 billion. After all, you want to nationalise all banks. You want to drive out the big multinationals because they're coming here and they're going to run the profits. You want to put the economy on hold. In addition, you want to spend a lot of money in social security to make social security a huge deficit. You have the ambition to become the largest party in Wallonia. However, your programme costs a minimum of EUR 50 billion. You are here to lecture a government which is currently in deficit of 1.5 or 0.5 percent or so. There is discussion about this, but it is moving towards a zero balance. When you come to power, you want to spend EUR 50 billion. If I can still count well, this means at least 10% to 12% of gross national product. That would mean 12.5 percent of gross national product, which would blow up our deficit. You have come here to tell me this with a serious and an aplomb as if we are stupid, as if we do not know how the economy works and as if we do not know how budgets are to be put together. You come out here with demagogy and some kind of left-wing populism that really gives me a degout, because your stories are never pierced. I have to say that the left-wing parties do not dare to attack the PTB. You're afraid to attack them. It is always so quiet on those benches, even on Mr Calvo's couch, sitting next to me. You're afraid to attack them. Unmask those gentlemen. If they come to power, the large multinational companies will be driven out of the country, the banks will be nationalized, the budget deficits will explode and we will no longer be able to pay our public debt. These are programmes of left-wing populists that are more extreme than certain right-wing parties. Mrs Kitir, where is your reaction to these statements? You shut up. Mr Van Hees, I am not going to listen to what you say anymore, because you will not listen if we say anything in committee. You never give a counter-argument. You will play your album there, and you will also now end by referring to the millionaire stake and to the fact that everything is solved. It bothers me that your statements in public opinion are not pierced and that we should ask you regularly in Parliament about your intentions. Everyone says it's all about the PTB, but you're actually dangerous, because you'll probably get 20% in Wallonia and you'll lie to people. Lie to me!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-plenair-ip175x.u72	Thank you for both of your questions, Mr. Van Rompuy. With respect to the cost of the PTB program, indeed, Mr. Defeyt conducted a study. He carries out studies which, in my opinion, are unequal values. There are more interesting studies than others. In this case, I think you didn't read his study because you're talking about nationalization. However, his study of the PTB program does not make any reference to it at all. [[(...): (...)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-plenair-ip175x.u73	That's not what I'm saying. In its cost estimate, there is no such aspect. [[(...): (...)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-plenair-ip175x.u74	No, because a nationalization pays off. Excuse me! I'll take an example. What did the government do with Fortis? He took Fortis, nationalized it and then practically offered it to BNP Paribas. This is the kind of nationalisation that is actually expensive, since on the one hand there is a part – the population – that is financially affected by this type of nationalisation and, on the other hand, a large banking group, a large multinational banking company like BNP Paribas, whose practices are quite questionable in this world, which is taking full advantage of it. I had asked the Minister of Finance about this. The dividends that Fortis paid to the current BNP Fortis Paribas is three times more than what BNP Paribas paid as dividends to Belgium, since Belgium became a shareholder of BNP Paribas. This shows somewhere the theft that occurred through the state operation to save Fortis. There, you see, there are nationalizations that are costly and there are some that are much cheaper, even able to bring back money.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-plenair-ip175x.u75	What is your solution to the situation in 2008?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-plenair-ip175x.u76	The state had to manage Fortis. There was a double operation in Fortis. First, the state became the owner of Fortis and then sold Fortis to BNP Paribas.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-plenair-ip175x.u77	I'm asking for your alternative.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-plenair-ip175x.u78	I'm answering. There was a double operation in Fortis. First, the State became a shareholder of Fortis and then sold Fortis to BNP Paribas. For me, we had to do the first surgery, not the second. This is the second one that was a gift to this multinational bank that is BNP Paribas. All observers said that Fortis was offered practically for nothing to BNP Paribas. You can read it. Morgan Stanley said that at the time. Le Monde headlined: "BNP Paribas can thank the Belgian taxpayer". I can find you the articles of the time if you want. For us, it was up to the state to manage this bank; like CGER and Crédit Communal were publicly managed for 130 years without any problems. Ten years of privatization of these public institutions have been enough for them to sink, to be on the brink of bankruptcy. That's the problem! We can thank the government of the time, and Mr. Reynders, for making these donations to multinational banks.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-plenair-ip175x.u79	Two points. Have you seen BNP's stock market course recently? No, you didn't see him. What is your explanation/solution for what happened with Dexia, who was a government bank?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-plenair-ip175x.u80	Dexia had public capital, but was listed on the stock exchange. This bank was therefore not entirely public. It was run like a private bank, with the same profit search. She invested, she took over FSA in the United States, who was doing subprime reinsurance, etc. It has had the same way as private banks: to make profit at all costs, to have toxic, dangerous investments. That's what practically caused Dexia's bankruptcy, like De Fortis. Fortis had a team in the United States to create subprimes, to play on derivatives. The problems come from this hunting for profit at all costs.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-plenair-ip175x.u81	The only banks that did not make such investments were Canadian private banks. All the difference you make between...
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-plenair-ip175x.u82	This shows nothing at all!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-plenair-ip175x.u83	This shows everything!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-plenair-ip175x.u84	No, I don't. I can tell you that Kiwibank, a New Zealand public bank, did not invest in subprimes. She didn't have any trouble. It was a public bank, in a country where everything had been privatized. At one point, they realized that all privatization was leading them to disaster.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-plenair-ip175x.u85	Mr Van Hees, Mrs Smaers wishes to speak.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-plenair-ip175x.u86	Mr President, I have not yet replied to Mr. Van Overtveldt.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-plenair-ip175x.u87	Go on.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-plenair-ip175x.u88	Mr Van Hees, I have another question. Then how do you intend to deploy all the staff of these banks? Will that all become civil servants? You talk about nationalisation, so these banks become government institutions. Does that mean that the staff will become civil servants?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-plenair-ip175x.u89	The answer is very simple. In Fortis, there were staff of the CGER, former civil servants with a statute, and staff of the General Bank. When former CGER officials moved to Fortis, they regretted their former status.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-plenair-ip175x.u90	You're kidding, but go ask them! Do you know any former CGER workers? Do they not regret the passage to Fortis?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-plenair-ip175x.u91	Then how are you going to pay all these pensions?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-plenair-ip175x.u92	In the same way as public servants' pensions are paid! For now, pension funds are leading to financial disasters. It was the same government that reduced the rate that had to be allocated to pension funds. So we have a disaster for public sector workers who have a pension fund. I therefore think that a public pension system is much safer for staff than adventurous "structures" such as pension funds. We return, as for Fortis and Dexia, on speculation at all costs. Mr Van Rompuy, about the 50 billion - you say that I repeat myself but if there is one that repeats itself on this subject...
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-plenair-ip175x.u93	It's always with M. de Spoelberch from AB InBev! I'm still talking about that 50 billion. I also have a record that keeps shooting about it when I listen to you. Where are you going to get that money? What is your policy towards multinationals, because 35% of employment in Flanders, for example in the private sector, comes from foreign capital? Do you intend to exclude them? What is your policy with regard to foreign investment, multinationals, individual investment in Belgium? Would you mind answering my question? What is your vision of the economy?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-plenair-ip175x.u94	About the $50 billion? Because you asked me several questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-plenair-ip175x.u95	Don't tell me about Mr. de Spoelberch or the millionaire tax because I know this record!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-plenair-ip175x.u96	First of all, the $50 billion. Our programme does not cost 50 billion and I contest Mr Defeyt's estimate. It costs less than half and is entirely financed by the tax of millionaires and also by measures such as capital gains on shares. Do you know anything about capital gains on shares, Mr. Van Rompuy? The surplus value on shares is a claim of the CD&V, which it abandons. All measures are funded.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-plenair-ip175x.u97	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-plenair-ip175x.u98	We are around 10 billion: 8 billion for the tax of the millionaires and 2 billion for the capital gains on shares. Mr. Van Rompuy asks me questions but he doesn't listen to the answers. I'm in charge of answering you, Mr. Van Rompuy. For the $50 billion, we are challenging both the amount and the fact that it is not funded. All of our cost-effective measures are offset by measures that report, including capital gains on shares. I said it before, but you weren't listening anymore! With regard to Mr Defeyt's calculations, I would like to point out that he is one of the great advocates of universal income. Do you know the cost of this only measure that it defends? This amounts to EUR 100 billion. He criticises the programme of the PTB, which would cost EUR 50 billion - which is not true - and only one measure of its programme, the universal allocation, costs EUR 100 billion! I doubt the seriousness of this budgetary analysis and I think there is a problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-plenair-ip175x.u99	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-plenair-ip175x.u100	(...) Those who defend social security must be wary of such ideas which seem generous and interesting, which obviously have very respectable aspects but which, I believe, endanger our social security.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-plenair-ip175x.u101	We could make a Defeyt-Bouchez coalition on the universal allocation. Secondly, does the PTB defend budgetary rigour? The PTB now notes that the Belgian population is suffering a double penalty: both austerity and lack of budgetary rigour. That's the problem! We impose billions of austerity on the population. And we're thinking, after all these billions of austerity, we're out of the hole! Well, that's not the case! The hole is still there! That is the problem: the double penalty imposed on the population. There is obviously a war of numbers. There are those of the European Commission that report a 2% deficit in 2018, and then the government's corridor figures heard at the end of May, which report 5.2 billion if we add up the effort still to be made in 2017 and 2018. The National Bank is talking about 6 to 8 billion to achieve balance. The Plan Bureau goes even further by talking about $9.1 billion and then, suddenly, the monitoring committee comes with good news because there would be no more effort to produce in 2017 and just under 1% (about $4 billion) to find in 2018. One wonders whether, because of the government's correction of its wounds, the monitoring committee has not somehow submitted to what the government is imposing on it as an exercise. In any case, even in the majority, Mr Van Rompuy, you are critical of the assessment of the monitoring committee. You say she's not credible. This remark comes from the benches of the majority, unless you have reviewed your comments since.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-plenair-ip175x.u102	I never turn my cart, Mr Van Hees, but the Planning Bureau, the European Commission and the National Bank speak in macroterms. The European Commission spoke of 2%, the National Bank of 1.8 % and the Planning Office also of 2%. If you had listened carefully to what the two ministers said, you would have heard that there are two things to be taken into account: the macroeconomic forecasts on revenue and expenditure and the actual evolution of revenue, as recorded. In this case, it concerns the first four or five months of this year. If we translate these figures, we can distract certain things, but at the moment it is unclear. I said that this year's deficit reduction is likely to be 0.6 or 0.7 %, which is quite logical and in line with what the European Commission is saying. The other figures 0.4 % and 0.5 %, from the Planning Bureau and the National Bank, are doubtful. For example, the National Bank and the European Commission are based on zero revenue from tax regularisation, savings for the long-term sick and measures to combat tax fraud. The government says that they will be less than originally envisaged, but if these corrections are accepted, then we will have to lower the amounts that will have to be sought in order to achieve a balance in 2019. However, there remains a field of tension between what these institutes say and what the Monitoring Committee says. I have read that the figures of the Monitoring Committee are not yet final and that they still need to be double-checked. There are likely to be a number of elements, but they create confusion in public opinion. This does not relieve the government of a major effort which it must make, namely to save 4 billion. That will still be a huge task, but if we go in the direction of balance and take into account the unrealised deficit reduction in 2017, then we are now structurally close to 1.4 to 1.5 %.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-plenair-ip175x.u103	Thank you, Mr Van Rompuy! You say a little everything and its opposite. I advise you to question the government's figures in the House rather than in the media, if you want to care for the cohesion of the majority government. You're doing the opposite! Launch your criticisms in the House and, in the newspapers, say that everything is fine and the numbers are good. Among the elements that play favorably and negatively on the budget, we have a favourable international economic situation, which has nothing to do with the government's policy. On the other hand, there are a number of factors that play an adverse role in the budget. One can cite the government's recurring bad estimates. One can mention the tax shift, distributed for three quarters over the years 2018-2020. So only one quarter was funded; the rest, 6.6 billion, was still to be found in the period 2018-2020. There are the many reforms advocated by the four parties of the majority since the government, despite the budget gap, continues to say that structural reforms are needed – I will come there. There is the national pact for strategic investments, not to mention our Prime Minister's promises to President Trump to increase the defence budget. Indeed, the different parties of the majority, while the hole is still important, always come with new measures. For the N-VA and M. Van Overtveldt is a major reform of corporate tax, where the rate would be reduced to 20%, i.e. a cost of more or less EUR 8 billion. Recently, it has been learned that the MR is a bit of a brake on Mr. Van Overtveldt on this subject, with the intention of initially limiting this reform to SMEs. But not so much to defend SMEs as multinationals, since we realize that the MR continues to place great confidence in the notional interests, the baby of Minister Reynders when he was in finance, that the reform would eventually call into question. The Open Vld also comes with measures to promote venture capital and expand flexi-jobs. The CD&V puts its surplus value on shares a little on hold and comes with a shift bis tax, which would be a way of extending gifts, reductions in social contributions to new sectors such as construction and e-commerce.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-plenair-ip175x.u104	Mr Van Hees, it's not a shift bis tax, it's a shift abyss tax!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-plenair-ip175x.u105	Thank you for your comment, Mr. Laaouej. The MR, in the person of the Prime Minister, comes with this investment pact, the amount of which is doubled. We were 30 billion. We're up to 60 billion. It is also known – the Prime Minister came to this assembly to explain in committee – that he relies heavily on the private sector for these investments but also through public incentives to the private sector to invest. So, we're going to have public investments that will consist of giving incentives to the private sector to invest. You already see the budgetary dangers that this can represent when you reason in such a way. So, I said, there are also the promises of the Prime Minister, who crawls a little in front of Donald Trump and says, "Yes, yes, Mr.President, we're going to increase the defence budget." Given that what Defence is asking for is 2% of GDP and that today we are at 0.85% of GDP, this requires an effort of $5 billion a year just to increase the Defence budget to 2%, while on the other hand, development cooperation is seen as one of the poor parents of this government. There is a target of 0.7%, but it is moving further away. As the Court of Auditors has said, our financial commitments to international organisations are no longer being respected. Moreover, there are manipulations in the figures of the Cooperation budget. What is the first country to benefit from Belgian Cooperation? Mrs. Wilmès, do you know that? What is the first country to receive aid from Belgian Cooperation? No, I see you didn't think so. Well, it's Belgium! Why Belgium? Because aid to refugees, Fedasil, has been put into the development cooperation budget. Therefore, Belgium is the first country to benefit from Belgian Development Cooperation. This is, of course, quite clever from a budgetary point of view, but a bit dubious anyway! Finally, it can be seen that there is a mirror effect in relation to the 0.7 per cent development cooperation target and the 2 per cent military target. Clearly, this government chooses bombs rather than development cooperation. On the issue of debt, the European Commission obviously notes that, during the transition period 2014-2016, Belgium did not meet the reduction criterion. And everything suggests that for 2017, it won't be the case either. Today, the debt is at 2013 level. However, Belgium is not sanctioned. Why? Because the European Commission notes that Belgium is pursuing an ultra-liberal policy that corresponds to its own sensitivities. And to cite the anti-social reforms of this government: reform of the 1996 law, tax shift, exemption from social contributions, wage moderation efforts, reform of public pensions, tightening of early retirement conditions, pensions at 66 in 2025 and 67 in 2030, index jump, reduction of public employment. She's already applauding the point pension, which hasn't even passed the government's lead yet!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-plenair-ip175x.u106	Mr Van Hees, you are concerned about public debt. You believe that Belgium is over-indebted. However, does your programme mean that the debt will be reduced? We are now facing a debt of more than 100 percent of GDP. Should you come to power and implement your economic, social and fiscal programme, do you not think that the mistrust that will arise in relation to Belgium because a Communist party comes to power in the heart of Europe will explode debt? I do not understand your sensitivity to the debt, as your program and your political action will only lead to a further explosion of debt. Or do you think all this isn't gonna happen? At the time, we saw your great sympathy for Mr Varoufakis in Greece. You even wanted to invite the President of the Greek Parliament here in full Greek crisis. Do you remember Mr Varoufakis saying two years ago that debts should be cancelled? The Minister of Finance also knew Mr Varoufakis very well. Your whole discourse is actually a debt discourse, in which you build the mistrust and send the companies away, which would be fatal for the common man, because he would be the victim of it. Here now come a nice theory about the debts that are too high in Belgium, which I am sorry to say. It's very sad that public opinion doesn't expose you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-plenair-ip175x.u107	Mr Van Rompuy, I am just showing this policy of the European Commission which, on the one hand, says that on the figures Belgium is not achieving the objectives, and on the other, saves Belgium by looking only at all the anti-social policies carried out by this government, because it will be good for the debt. It is the same ideological blindness as that of this government. That is exactly what the European Commission is doing, it is written black and white in their text. What increased the debt? A few years ago, the debt was below the 100% mark, remember, Mr. Van Rompuy. We are returning to the issue of banks, which is very topical. The banking policy of the profit hunt led to the financial crisis and caused a sharp increase in debt, while years of austerity had been imposed on the population, in order to gradually reduce this debt. All of a sudden, it exploded and in a few years, it was returned to above 100% of GDP. Unfortunately, this government wants to do the same thing. He wants to continue private banking policy, all in private, since he sells part of BNP Paribas' capital. This sale will cost money: since interest rates are low at present, it costs less to repay interest on the debt than to do without the dividends that were paid by BNP Paribas. What explains this inconsistent budgetary choice? Let us ask ourselves the question which also applies to the possible stock exchange of Belfius, since the problem will be the same. The Ministers tell us that the European Commission must be seen well and that this operation will reduce the debt a little. In fact, what is the effect of selling a stake in BNP Paribas or Belfius? On the net wealth of the State, the impact is zero and, at the budgetary level, it costs. On the net assets, with the assets that go down and the liabilities that go down by the same amount, there is no effect. The European Commission looks only at one side of Belgium's balance sheet and wealth: it looks at debt and not at the sale of the State's assets. It is a policy that drives privatisation! Yes, Mrs. Wilmès, you can look up to heaven, but that's the reality.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-plenair-ip175x.u108	You're talking about the capital market and interest rates. Does Belgium have to leave the euro for the PTB? That is a very specific question. We put it down to Marine Le Pen, too. She lost the election in France when she was asked if she would reintroduce the French franc and leave the euro. This was fatal to him in these elections. I ask you if, when the PTB comes to power, Belgium will leave the euro. I want a yes or no answer. Either we leave or we don't leave!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-plenair-ip175x.u109	Mr Van Rompuy, it is out of debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-plenair-ip175x.u110	No, this is the main part of the budget debate. If we leave the euro, it means that the debts will be in Belgian francs again and that the entire transition period will cost the state and people billions. Is the PTB for an exit from the euro?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-plenair-ip175x.u111	And Europe!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-plenair-ip175x.u112	A Brexit!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-plenair-ip175x.u113	The question is twofold, but the answer is the same. The PTB wants to fundamentally review the European treaties. We are not in favour of a Belgo-Belgian withdrawal from Belgium, but we want to fundamentally review the rules of the game of the European Union, which are the ones I denounce. The answer is clear.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-plenair-ip175x.u114	Do you want to put an end to the free movement of people? What does that mean?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-plenair-ip175x.u115	Review budgetary treaties, the CGT and such treaties. They make the European Commission a budgetary policeman who imposes his policy through this role. That actually makes her a political gendarme, as I have just demonstrated. We are indeed questioning these treaties, which impose austerity on the people of European countries. We are in favour of defending a public bank, a truly public Belfius. Today, an associative movement defends Belfius' public maintenance, and not just Belfius' public maintenance to act as a private bank, but to act as a bank that truly serves the Belgian economy, the population and businesses, and not as a bank focused on its own individual profit. I conclude with the last part of this speech, which I thought was short. I'm talking about this government's economic bulletin. This government uses employment as an alibi. We already know the speeches of the government parties in preparation for the next elections in 2019. All austerity measures, anti-social measures and budget failures – this is the double penalty – will be hidden behind an alleged increase in employment. The term "anti-social" is to be taken in two ways: on the one hand, it hurts the population; and on the other, it is misperceived by the population, which is not accepted by it. There is indeed some increase in employment. But what is it due to? Certainly not government policy. It is due to a favourable international situation. There was the possibility of reducing the social bottlenecks imposed by this government's austerity policy. But other choices have been made: to make new "structural reforms", to use the government's terms, i.e. new gifts to capital. Let's just wait two seconds on the job. With regard to unemployment, economic developments are less significant in Belgium than in the rest of the euro area. The standard unemployment rate, or the employment rate, changes less than in other euro area countries. In addition, unemployment statistics in Belgium hide other realities. According to a recent Forem study, thousands of unemployed people who have stopped receiving insertion allowances have disappeared from Forem radars. I quote Forem: "31 per cent of the public left the job application quickly after the end of rights, without returning to it within the following year. Most of them are people with little or no experience." Unemployed people who are no longer unemployed disappear completely from radars. I don't know what social catastrophe comes with this kind of evolution. As for the jobs created, I take back the latest figures available from ONSS, which run from the fourth quarter of 2014 to the fourth quarter of 2016, i.e. two years of Swedish government: 68,000 additional jobs were actually created, i.e. + 2%. But this global reality hides rather disparate developments. If we look at the evolution of full times, it's only 1% evolution. If we look at the evolution of part-time work, it's 2%. And if we look at the evolution of temporary, seasonal jobs and limited benefits, we go up to 16.7%. This means that this government does not create employment but a precarious employment. Getting a job is not an end in itself. When someone wants a job, it's to get a decent salary, decent working conditions, something to build a future for their family. That is not what this government is creating. We are increasingly in a logic of poor workers, as is the case in the United States or Germany, where we can have a job but precarious, which does not allow us to live in dignity. In 2016, Belgium was the only country in the European Union where real wages, excluding inflation, fell. All the other Member States have seen their real wages increase. There is about 1% change in real wages. We had a debate earlier on disposable income. It does not distinguish between the share of income that goes to capital and the share that goes to work. Poverty is also changing alarmingly as the number of women at risk of poverty or social exclusion increased from 1,204,000 in 2014 to 1,263,000 in 2016. That makes 59,000 more women. With regard to the operating rate - which in national income goes into capital and what goes to work - the share of wages in national income from the 4th quarter 2014 to the 1st quarter 2017 increased from 53.4% to 48.3%. Over the same period, the share of profits increased from 36.2% to 42.2%. It has increased sharply. Swede has never earned her title as bosses' government so much.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-plenair-ip175x.u116	Mr President, we are going to be serious again. By leaving Mr. Van Hees going to the gallery, I didn't think we were going to spend so much time analyzing the PTB program. Even Mrs Onkelinx got tired of it, to the point of waiting for the end of our colleague's speech to come back to the sitting. If I may, Mr President, like most colleagues, I will remain at my bench. Indeed, the adjustment presented to us does not deserve too much enthusiasm or too much indignation. Mr. Piedboeuf himself indicated that this was only an adjustment, not an initial budget. The exercise is particularly technical, since there are no taxes, no additional savings or positive measures - except for the gift that the four parties of the majority offered themselves, with a small margin of 15 million per formation to allow their respective ministers to take some initiatives. In short, this adjustment is a non-event. Nevertheless, I will make a few comments on behalf of the cdH Group. First of all, if I may, Mr President, I shall return to the course of our work in committee. First of all, I would like to thank the chairman of the committee, and this is not the first time that I have done so - but it is always very sincerely - which systematically ensures that the debates take place in accordance with the opposition and without any obstruction to the government and the majority. I take pleasure here in congratulating him. I would also like to thank the Ministers, who have been diligent throughout the debates in committee. I confess, however, that at some point I would have liked more interactivity. The ministers rewarded us with an introductory speech and then concluded. In between, there was a lack of respondents. Perhaps we could think about it for further work. I therefore believe that it would be wise to work chapter by chapter to go further into the substance of the matter and to hear the position of the Government as it moves forward, in particular with regard to the Court of Auditors' recurring observations. Besides, it's Mr. Van Rompuy himself, who had suggested that they should give rise to a written reply from the government. I believe that this is a good proposal, which would help to improve our debates and the future analyses of the Court of Auditors, since it could take into account the government's replies.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-plenair-ip175x.u117	Mr President, Mr Dispa's speech is in line with what I said earlier. Or I'll come back to what he says now. I wonder to what extent we cannot organize our budget work differently. I don't want to revolutionize the institution; that's not it. But imagine that our work spans several months. Water flows under the bridges. On the other hand, one could imagine a dynamic perhaps a little more interactive with ministers, rather than aligning interventions. Many of us regularly say the same thing on the side of the opposition, and the majority answers with arguments that are all substantially sunk in the same mould. I wonder to what extent a new dynamic in the processing of budget files could not be instilled. For the rest, we depend on timetables, deposits and company, but to hear the Court of Auditors, the committee, the introductory statement by the ministers and to hear us say the same thing three or four times, I think we could perhaps do otherwise.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-plenair-ip175x.u118	That is how the CDH and the PS can find themselves on certain points, in any case on the progress of the work in the Committee on Budget and Finance. And between us, dear Ahmed, that's not so surprising. One additional point that I would like to stress - this has already been done - is the planned obsolescence of this budgetary adjustment. Since it was approved by the government in March, a lot of water has sank under bridges and it is already overtaken by the facts, which is still a little embarrassing because we are here at the end of June in plenary to discuss figures that we know are outdated. It's probably the law of the kind and nobody can do anything about it. Except that, more and more, the budget does not ultimately constitute a pre-set framework for government work, but rather is adapted as and when decisions are made throughout the year. I obviously agree with the Budget Minister who told us in committee that the government could not stop working and that initiatives could be taken. That's normal. However, when we see, for example, that just a few weeks after the budgetary adjustment, within the framework of the theme on security and terrorism, the government generated new expenditures that could not be integrated, it is said that fiscal control has become a retrospective pilotage. It does not really anticipate the margins that can be allocated at a later stage in substantive work, such as those announced by the Government on matters other than those discussed in the Special Council of Ministers on Security and Terrorism, which has led the Government to release a €105 million envelope, unless I am mistaken, which was not included in the adjustment it had made shortly before. Both, we have talked a lot about macroeconomic parameters. What may appear to be an improvement of a number of indicators, members of the majority have stressed to the envis that in terms of jobs, growth, number of bankruptcies, the figures appear better and everyone can rejoice. However, I would like to warn you that there is too much euphoria because if the figures are improving – something nobody is contesting on certain aspects – it is nevertheless clear that they are improving rather less than in the other countries of the euro area. This was explained to us, in particular, by the representatives of the European Commission when they presented their analysis. They stressed how much, especially in terms of growth, but not only – as is also the case from a macro-budgetary point of view – Belgium is doing less well than the European average. I think that should prompt you to a certain modesty. All the more so since the representatives of the Commission, on the sidelines of the actual budgetary analysis, have also highlighted a number of difficulties which continue to hamper the socio-economic situation in our country. Since little has been said about it, I would like to refer to it because it is a message that I personally found appealing and which deserves to be taken into consideration. For example, representatives of the Commission pointed out that in terms of competitiveness, while their overall assessment could be positive, they noted a number of negative points, including higher inflation in Belgium than elsewhere with a risk of loss of competitiveness. There is also a degree of vigilance to be observed in the market services. They stressed the rigidity of the services market, the negative effects of the increase in VAT on electricity or the increase in some direct subsidies. In terms of competitiveness – which is a little the leitmotif of this government and of this majority – there are more negative signals that must not be forgotten. The same applies to services where the Commission underlines the fact that our market for services is handicapped by costs which are, compared to others, higher, a dynamism which is perhaps less and, above all, an impact on the growth of the share of expenditure on research, innovation and development which is perhaps less than one might expect. Here too, there is room for reflection. As part of its recommendations, the Commission has also stressed that in the labour market we need to make progress: performance remains low even if it improves. The employment rate remains lower than in other European countries. There are a number of things that I have found to be challenging, for example the fact that Belgium is the red lantern in Europe for the professional integration of migrants. There's something to ask. Similarly, we see a very strong polarisation between those who are integrated into the labour market and those who are excluded from the labour market. While some signals may appear positive and signal a relative improvement, in many respects the socio-economic situation remains a concern. I therefore urge the majority not to give in to this temptation of euphoria which I thought I perceived at certain times during the debates this afternoon. I would like to address the budgetary path since budgetary control must, in principle, reassure us. To be honest, it seemed clear and clearly assumed at the beginning of the legislature, with the aim of restoring the balance of the budget, as much as, over time, it seems increasingly fluctuating, changing and evolving. In early 2017, the goal was still to restore balance in 2018, and then in April, the government finally acknowledged that it would not be until 2019. In addition, most recently, I understood, in an interview with Deputy Prime Minister Peeters, that the government was going to have to question whether this goal of the 2019 horizon was still relevant or whether the return to balance should not be postponed again. Finally, we find that the voluntarism of the beginning of the legislature has succeeded a certain form of pragmatism. We will see what the figures will give but we perceive a certain float in the definition of the objective. I would like to illustrate the government's somewhat scalable communication regarding not this adjustment, but a possible second adjustment. When the first was presented, we were told clearly that there would be a second adjustment to keep the 2017 budget on track and then, more recently, I understood, following the remarks of the Budget Minister, that this second adjustment would not be necessary, based on the figures of the Monitoring Committee. We have a bit of the impression that the government is piloting on sight and that, depending on the good news or bad news, it is adapting its method of work and its fiscal trajectory. I do not regret pragmatism, but it is necessary to have a certain readability in the multi-annual perspective which, in my view, becomes somewhat blurred. If you will allow me, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to return to a debate which I think is very important, that of the methodology used by the various opinion bodies which inform our budgetary debates. Mr. Van Rompuy made a very interesting distinction between the macroeconomic approaches of the National Bank, the Federal Planning Office, the European Commission and the more micro approach of the Monitoring Committee and government services. It is true that between the short-term approach of the Monitoring Committee and the medium-term approach of the other bodies, there are sacred differences. The European Commission announces an effort to achieve 1.3 billion in 2017 to keep the budget on track. The Plan Bureau announces an effort to achieve between 8 and 9 billion euros by 2019, when the Monitoring Committee suddenly seems more reassured and confident on the forecasts. This allows each other to punctuate numbers depending on whether one wishes to be reassured or on the contrary to be alarmed. I can understand that each instance follows its own methodology and that the figures may differ. But beyond these methodological differences, what seems most important to me – and from this point of view, the work is not finished – is to make the estimates of federal government revenues more reliable. This is a recurring debate that we have been holding since the beginning of the legislature. Honestly, the debate is not closed today since the Court of Auditors, in its opinion on this adjustment, has once again stressed a number of uncertainties, in particular relating to tax revenues (VAT on gambling, Fairness Tax, corporate tax for intercommunals, excess profit regulation), difficulties with tax regularisation, and unknowns concerning notional interests. Uncertainties remain. The Minister of Finance had announced the establishment of a task force to try to improve the reliability of revenues. After that, he said in committee that we would call for an external consultation, particularly academic, to try to enrich the conclusions of this task force. I sincerely regret that, in committee, at no time has the conclusions, even provisional, of the task force been known. I hope that the analysis to be carried out by external consultants will be communicated to us so that we can have a substantive exchange on this. I think it would be a mistake to consider that the apparently improving revenue here, through the latest figures from the Monitoring Committee, this debate has become superfluous. Whether income is lower or higher than expected, whatever the case, which is interesting, what is important is that it is as reliable as possible. It is not because there is a prospect of short-term improvement that this debate should be disinterested. So I really wish, Mr Finance Minister, the Minister of Budget, that we can, as soon as possible, clarify the methodology for assessing our revenues, otherwise we will look at each other's perspectives (the National Bank, the Federal Bureau of the Plan, the European Commission, the Monitoring Committee) and we will not have any real assurance that our figures are well-substantiated and that they are solid, so that future years might very well reserve us some bad surprises. Still to alleviate the enthusiasm or euphoria of members of the majority, I would also like to stress – because it was still very striking – that the representatives of the Commission have explained to us that so far, the improvement of the structural deficit in Belgium is almost exclusively due to the reduction of debt burdens. That's what we were told. I find this to be relative to the effectiveness of the fiscal policy that has been put in place so far. Above all, it exposes us to future risks which should not be overlooked, since the evolution of interests, in particular, is a development on which we have little control and it could more than probably be negative in the months and years to come. Without wanting to be too long, I would also like to refer to the debate that some colleagues have opened on investment. The European Commission itself has told us that Belgium needs to do better in terms of investment. Investment in Belgium is mainly attributable to the private sector, while the public sector is more weak compared to the standards that should be achieved. At the same time, the Commission has told us that we should not be overly delusional: as long as the debt is not more controlled, this body would be reluctant to allow a form of broadness to allow the country to grant investment margins. The dialogue, we were told, is under way on this subject. I don't know if he's changed since then. What is certain is that an additional element has been added since then, namely the report that was published yesterday or today on local government finances. I would like to refer to this because local authorities have a very large share of public investment in Belgium: they alone account for almost half of public investment. However, the latest report on local finances shows a marked slowdown in public investment at the local level, as we enter in principle into the period, partly linked to the electoral cycle, when investments are accelerating. Unlike the previous legislatures, observers are currently seeing extreme caution from local authorities. My feeling is that this is due to the rather negative outlook for tax revenue from the shift. The municipalities understood that the tax shift would cause them to lose 10% of their PPI additions, all things being equal. They understood that the prospects for an ageing population would also have an impact on their tax revenues. There is a cautious attitude in the head of local authorities that does not do our job when we know the need to boost investment. The Prime Minister told us in committee about his proposed investment pact. He suggested to us that, perhaps already in an adjustment to the 2017 budget, or more likely in the 2018 budget, there would be an amendment that would allow us to see the beginning of this investment pact. It must be noted that, in the adjustment that is being submitted to us today, there is nothing in this regard. It doesn't necessarily bode well for the rest. On this point, we expect more significant progress in the coming months. Mr President, I shall conclude by referring to Mr. Van Rompuy has some kind of prudence or even silence in the ranks of the majority. I think he's politically right. It is indeed in discretion that agreements can be negotiated. However, the resulting agreements must not be "rikiki". At the moment, however, we do not see much to come, particularly with regard to the taxation of capital gains. I don't think we'll see anything at all. Perhaps we will see something about fair taxation? We don't see much coming with regard to the mobilization of savings. What we are told about corporate tax reform is more like a reform, or in any case an ultra-light approach to the problem. Is this linked to budgetary constraints or political difficulties in finding common ground within the majority? Here too, we will wait for a definitive opinion. So far and in this adjustment, we see nothing coming. Definitely and definitively, this first budgetary adjustment is light, technical and insignificant. It is a non-event and does not arouse much enthusiasm. That is why the cdH group will not vote for it.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-plenair-ip175x.u119	Minister, Minister, the data made available by the Plan Office, the National Bank and the Monitoring Committee are positive. We see that we are finally on the right track to regain some financial stability, debt consolidation and even a certain positive growth rate. The employment rate is rising sharply, the number of bankruptcies is falling and unemployment is falling. You have opted for policies that are dear to the People's Party. However, you could go a little further, especially in structural reforms. Mr President, I listened to my colleagues wisely and in silence. I'll ask for the same fair play for me. Don't worry, when I say I won't be long, I will. Madam and Mr Ministers, you could, however, go further, particularly in the area of structural reforms. You have to do that if you don't want future generations to go to the cash register to make up for the mistakes of the past. We are no longer in the mechanics of assistance applied for so many years by a policy of the left in contrast with the evolution of society. That's good already! But you can go further in the economies. You would need a little more political courage to drastically reduce unnecessary spending, which is being pointed out on the issue of best governance. It would also be enough for you to print to this majority a desire for the restructuring of our federal state to stick more closely to the reality and, above all, to the expectations of the citizens. I am thinking of the abolition of the Senate and of the political structure of the provinces. However, work is still arduous and long way to go, because finding the right balance between the social needs of our pensioners, our workers, but also our social beneficiaries is not easy and the European directives do not really help us. It is obvious that you must continue to favour our self-employed and small and medium-sized enterprises. They are a very important source of employment and, therefore, one of the solutions to growth. Let us also pay attention to the purchasing power of our fellow citizens. To do this, you need to apply more balanced social justice, especially to large companies that still have too many benefits without compensation. In-depth tax reform is inevitable. Putting pads on wooden legs never treated the wound! It is also clear that peripheral policies, such as reception, must stick to the reality of our budgets and not the other way round. We cannot help the whole world. Far from the idea of protectionism or self-absorbing, we simply need a policy of common sense. The impact of such lax behaviour is immediate on the state budget and, therefore, on the portfolio of our fellow citizens. I think, in this case, of the cost of safety, or even of "oversecurity". I also believe that we need to be more strict about tax fraud and social fraud. We must also defend an authentic vision of an energy landscape, in order to stabilize our image vis-à-vis future investors who are still too hesitant because of the lack of a stable policy – particularly in the nuclear field. One of the most important factors determining production costs is the price of energy. In conclusion, ministers, you are on the right track, but show more political courage. That is why the People's Party will not vote against this project, but will abstain.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-plenair-ip175x.u120	Mr President, first of all I would like to thank the members of the Finance and Budget Committee for the very interesting debate we have had. I would also like to thank the chairman of the committee, not only for the way in which he has held the presidency, but also for his presentation. I would like to thank everyone for this. Today we have had exciting debates: nuclear, communism, privatization, health, medicines, etc. We talked about a lot of stuff, about the multi-annual, about the Commission... but we didn't talk much about the budget. Everything is in the budget, the budget is everything, everything is the budget, so it's very nice, it's a fabulously interesting subject. But if you don't mind, in the short answer that I will make - because we've already had a lot of debate and we're not going to put a big layer back on it - I'm just going to respond to the most salient points about this fiscal adjustment, since today's fiscal year is good to work on the 2017 fiscal adjustment and nothing else. First, on the order of business. It's true it's a long time. At the government level, we discussed this adjustment in March, and we vote on it at the end of June. However, it should be remembered that the budgetary adjustment was tabled on time and is also voted on in time, which is not negligible. But it is also a bit like the law: remember that between the political decision and the moment when the documents are tabled in parliament, it takes at least four weeks of writing, since each time they are bricks. We're coming to commission. Once it's deposited, you still have to give yourself a little time to understand this material that's not thin. We're here to do the introduction. The committee makes this choice - and I fully respect it, but it is not an obligation - to wait for the Court of Auditors' report to begin the debate. It is true that the introductory statement is made before, but then there is a certain delay before we can listen to the Court of Auditors. And you will remember that this time there was a lag, because you wanted to hear from the European Commission before starting the debates. I'm not criticizing him, but we can't have everything. If we wait for all these different moments, we have to accept that it takes time. It also happens that this time, paradoxically, we have finished quite early. We've had translation problems, because the services work a lot, I know. We could have already had these debates in plenary on 22 June. Stricto sensu, it was possible, but it was not done. It's okay, I don't regret it. But I still want to point out that many of the committee's decisions generate this length; and then there are the imponderables. As far as the debate is concerned, I understand that Mr Dispa wants a bit more hot debates. I find this rather funny, because he himself says that this budgetary adjustment is technical and that it is a non-event. I want to make non-events hot. But from the moment it is considered so, it becomes more complicated. This intervention was also special, because I think that for an interesting debate perhaps we have to listen. Mr Dispa, you mentioned, for example, the additional costs and obsolescence of this adjustment. You agree with us, which I thank you for, that in view of the time that passes between the time when the political decision is taken and the time when the budget is voted, we do not expect the government to stop working. I think everyone agrees that we continue to work. On the particular point of the Extraordinary Council of Ministers of Justice, I gave a precise answer on the budgetary consequences on the trajectory. With regard to the 2017 budget adjustment, I also explained to you that there was no impact, either because it corresponded to what was proposed, either because it was in the standard appropriations, or because it was in the updated terrorist provision, or because it came from other entities. This famous extraordinary Council of Ministers therefore has no impact on 2017. It does have a budgetary impact on the 2018 trajectory. But we are voting for the 2017 budget adjustment, which only concerns the 2017 budget. We will have the joy and privilege to soon discuss the initial 2018 and its multi-year projection. During the course of the work, many questions were asked about 2018, the multi-year, the efforts to be made, etc. An interim report has been issued, but it is only a state of affairs at an instant T. I would like to point out that the only document that will be authoritative and that will inaugurate the technical work from a budgetary point of view will be the report of the Monitoring Committee - which is expected only next week. As much as we have received information, these are not definitive figures. That is why I await the report of the Monitoring Committee in order to know what efforts will have to be made. There has also been extensive discussion of the fundamental differences between the projected outlook - not in the adjustment, but in general by the government in terms of the multi-annual budget - and the differentiated exercises that are regularly practiced by the Federal Planning Office and the European Commission. We've talked about it everywhere. On several occasions this was during the discussion on the stability programme and also during the discussion on the budgetary change. We also discussed it in 2016. So I have no problem doing that again. You know that we have a different approach than the Federal Planning Office. There are different models. The Planning Office does not take into account all the measures taken by the Government. Another important difference with the Federal Planning Office is that it takes Belgium as a whole, while we are only talking about entity I here. We don't have much more information in front of the Planning Office. We have some more information to the European Commission and the stability programme. During our discussion in committee, I also had the opportunity to explain this. After all, it was also explained by Europe. It is true that, at Belgian level, Europe is also talking about the Belgian level and not necessarily about the federal level, the structural balance registered by the European Commission in 2017 is 1.6 % deficit. For Belgium, we foresee a deficit of 0.98% in the stability programme. A general explanation for this is that the European Commission is doing more macro and we are doing more micro. That's true. However, that can also be explained. So we see a difference of 0.6%. We know that the difference can be explained by the one-off derivatives, which are marginal this time. In the past, the difference was not marginal, this time it is. The difference is 0.3 % for the output gap and that is a very big difference. When we use the output gap, we don't just decide about that output gap. We use the output gap calculated by the Federal Planning Bureau, as the law dictates. We also know, when compared to earlier, that the Federal Planning Office usually makes correct calculations of the output gap. Consequently, almost half of the difference of 0.6% can be explained by the output gap. The remainder can be explained by a difference in the nominal balance of 0.3 % for the whole of Belgium, of which 0.2 % for entity I. We know that they do not take all the measures into account. They also announced what measures they did not take into account because they considered that they were not sufficiently detailed. Entity II accounts for 0.1 %. They believe that this is due to the investments and the fact that they were not made correctly. I would like to repeat that in the past, not long ago, there was a great deal to be done about the nominal deficit. In October and November, the European Commission beat this at 3%. This would have been a very problematic deficit. There was a lot of commotion about this in the press and in the opposition. We said very quickly that, according to our calculation, Belgium would be at 2.6 % by the end of December. I would also like to reiterate that in February, two months after the closure of the accounts, the European Commission confirmed its 3%, while we had reached 2,6%. I am not saying that the European Commission's calculations are not interesting and that we should not take those calculations into account. Definitely not. But we have enough experience to know that they are not always as accurate as they should be. This is a very important point on which we are now in full discussion with the European Commission. It is something else to say what the long-term prospects are, but in the short term the figures could be right. That is not the case, and as you said, Mr Van Rompuy, this is confusing for everyone. It doesn't help us with what we do. A more specific question was about flexibility. We had discussed the thresholds with Europe and have submitted an application for an extension for asylum flexibility for 2017; we have not yet received a formal answer to this specific question. We have received a reply on the subject, but I would remind you that flexibilities are always calculated ex post. Once the calculation is done ex post, I am convinced that we will again discuss, if necessary, how to calculate. I stress "if necessary" because flexibility equipment only makes sense if there is a significant deviation from the trajectory. In other words, if, ex post, we realize that we respect the stability programme and that there is no significant deviation, this flexibility tool will not have to be taken into account. That's right, I said earlier, there was a van zaken stand on 2017 that was activated recently. I look forward to the numbers of the Monitoring Committee like everyone else because these are the only figures that will allow us to start budgetary discussions more precisely. That being said, if the figures received so far are correct, that means that we would be in the nails, up to what was announced and in the commitment of the 2017 stability programme. This would mean that, in any event, we should not use this flexibility clause. There is, however, a lot of "if" in my sentence and I therefore propose to wait. I answer with the elements I have, Mr. Laaouej. More precise than that, I can't, otherwise I'll tell you some cornets since we'll decide this ex post, after 2017 and we're still in 2017. Mrs Temmerman, there were a lot of questions about what we will do in 2018. Will it be a walk in the park compared to 2017? Definitely not. No one said that. We are only saying what we believe will bring 2017 with us. There is also the evaluation of the Monitoring Committee. At the end of the ride, the result for 2017 will only be determined on the basis of the calculations. There will be a lot of work to be done in 2018. That is never easy, and I am absolutely not saying that it will be a walk in the park. I am simply saying that we must wait for the Monitoring Committee's estimate for 2018. Mrs Temmerman, you made a technical argument about the autonomy factor. The correction of the autonomy factor will be done in 2018. In the past too much has been paid out to the regions, but no one has pointed this out. However, this had an important impact on our nominal balance. Again, nobody said anything about it, everyone kept quiet. Maybe we didn't know that at the time. We cannot therefore be blamed for the fact that these funds will have to be repaid at a certain time, which is, in fact, normal.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-plenair-ip175x.u121	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-plenair-ip175x.u122	That's where I come in. It is a one-off repayment, which will have an effect on the nominal balance, but not on the structural balance. And we are always talking about the structural balance. Perhaps I have misunderstood your comment in this respect, but once we know the prospects for the nominal balance for 2018, everyone will know what the situation is. However, we are arguing in structural balance, so the work that needs to be done here will not make much difference. I think I have discussed the most important points, and I hope you understand the most important points now.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-plenair-ip175x.u123	Mr President, I will, of course, talk about revenue. A number of punctual comments have been made, and I shall be going into them in a moment. Of course, the world has not changed in a few weeks' time. In essence, the answers I gave in committee are the same as those I gave in committee. As far as income is concerned in general, I simply refer to the recent codit notes, which you will no doubt follow closely, and which clearly reflect.... especially when looking at the revenue in ESA terms, in which budgets are drawn up and compared over time................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. That is the only relevant element in this matter. As far as income is concerned, therefore, in ESA terms, we are achieving the figures adapted to the new macroeconomic environmental factors, i.e. slightly more economic growth, as a result of budgetary control. It also seems that this will be the case for the whole year. Of course, there are inevitably, at 115 billion revenues, important pluses and significant minuses in certain categories. As far as corporate taxes are concerned, Mr Laaouej, it is not easy to make a comparison over time. You are partly right in saying that in 2010, we were still in post-crisis. Before, I refer to the 12 billion, we were in an economic situation whose growth depended on the situations before 2008 and 2009. A comparison on this subject is perhaps a little forced. Having said that, I am going into the details of a number of remarks made. I shall begin with the NIA, for which the government has indeed committed an important amount in connection with budgetary control. In 2016, as a result of the fall in interest rates, we registered a yield of 196 million euros. This was the result of a reduction in the tariff by half a percentage point to 1,13 %. Now we are faced with a drop in the rate by almost one percentage point to the lowest reference rate ever. Why did it take us a while to draw those conclusions? The answer is indirectly in what the Court of Auditors has written. I refer to the Court of Auditors' report on page 29. The Court of Auditors points out the uncertainty associated with the NIA's estimate, in particular the difficulty of quantifying the effects of changes in company behaviour. The assessment of this is indeed something that we have studied for a long time. After all, if the NIA deduction is reduced, there is the possibility for many companies to offset other subtractions, which were not previously eligible because of the large volume of the NIA. That is a very difficult exercise, in which we only saw clarity in early 2017. By "we" I mean both the FOD and the cabinet. In recent years, the gross cost of the notional interest deduction per percentage point decreased the rate of the notional interest deduction by one and a half billion euros. Taking into account the corporate tax rate, the net cost is reduced by just over 450 million euros as a result of the fall in the rate in 2017. On the basis of these figures, the government has decided to subscribe to a sum of EUR 325 million, i.e. 70%. Is that exact? No, it's not. Is that a realistic estimate? Yes, it is. In the case of excess profit rulings, we are faced with the situation that only the tax advantage resulting from the previous decisions has been corrected with the collections. If all aspects of corporate tax had been taken into account, the companies concerned would have had to charge notional interest deductions, losses from previous years and the like, which had not happened. A recovery of these amounts will be carried out in 2017. That is why the possible recovery of some EUR 350 million has been taken into account when drawing up the budget. That was a very rough estimate at the time. On the basis of more detailed figures, we have come to the conclusion that this exemption will be close to 107 million. A further general comment on revenue was made on the furniture discount. Although the income from the furniture discount in 2016 remained below initial expectations, revenue at the end of 2016/January 2017 experienced a final boost that reflected an anticipated effect on the increase in the household discount from 27 to 30 per cent on January 1, 2017. Since this pre-emptive effect represents a shift of revenue from 2017 to revenue in 2016, revenue from the tariff increase is no longer estimated at 345 million for 2017, as foreseen in the original budget, but at 276 million euros. The additional impact of the increase to 30% in the table is therefore no longer 40 million euros (from +345 million in 2016 to 385 million in 2017) but more than 149 million (from +127 million to 276 million). Tax regularisation is another issue that has been raised. Revenue from tax regularisation was indeed estimated at EUR 250 million in the initial budget. Budgetary control made it clear that this amount would not be realised because, after the sixth state reform, the establishment of a system of fiscal regularisation has become much more complex than before. As a result of this delay and the need to conclude cooperation agreements with the region's neighbours, revenues were estimated at EUR 22.5 million for 2016 and the adjustment for 2017 was also made. I note that the increase in federal revenue from fiscal regularisation by EUR 50 million was included in recent budgetary control as a technical correction in the general budget table. What has changed in the context of the discussion in committee? As far as this issue is concerned, I continue to engage constructively with the trade unions. I've seen them several times in the last few months. In recent weeks, progress has been made in these discussions. Some of the concerns have already been encountered, such as career paths, satellite offices, seeking a better balance between versatility and specialization. As for other aspirations, discussions are still under way. I hope that they can continue in the same constructive atmosphere that I have felt so far. This is the only way to actually achieve results. It is true that the workforce within the public service has fallen sharply in recent years. Increased efficiency and particularly advanced digitisation are naturally at the origin of some of them and do not necessarily lead to a reduction in tax revenues. This brings me to the more general comments. Mr Laaouej asked me for a few comments on the evolution of inflation figures. When I compare the inflation figures for Belgium and the euro area, I note that for this year the prognosis is already quite close: 2.1 for Belgium as against 1.6 for the euro area. In 2018, we will be at almost the same level, at 1.3 and 1.5 respectively. A lag occurred in 2016, where the euro area was 0.2% inflation compared to 2% for us. One of the reasons for this shift was the increase in indirect taxes that we have experienced, which is the counterpart of the reductions in employment taxation that we have organised through the shift tax. It is also important to note, in this case, that even with this higher inflation, we kept the indexation of income, the first effects of which occurred in May this year. The effect on purchasing power of this relative increase in inflation was therefore not sensitive to the level of income, since indexation remained intact after the index jump. With regard to the mobility budget, we are in the process of finalizing the government's bill. It took a lot of time, but we must also take into account the fact that this is a high-tech exercise. A lot of tax elements are needed to organize such a cash for cars principle. With regard to the Big Three – ISOC, tax justice and savings – we are working on it. We will try to find good solutions on all three terrains in the coming days. This time, I fully agree with Mr. Van Rompuy: The best thing to do is not to comment and I will not do so.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-plenair-ip175x.u124	Mr President, we have heard the ministers' replies. We are not convinced, but we will not relaunch the debate. I would ask everyone to see that in the Plan Bureau's forecasts, even if there is a potential structural deficit reduction, it is going up again in 2020. The question I asked you, and for which you do not give an answer, is how you will find EUR 9 billion if you maintain the objective of balance. The more fundamental question is whether you intend to maintain this objective of balance. I don't think you'll make it. It is not a lack of will, but it would be time to clarify things by admitting that you will not achieve balance in 2019, or after, and that, therefore, this is no longer a government objective.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-plenair-ip175x.u125	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-plenair-ip175x.u126	We begin the discussion of the articles of the draft law on the first adjustment of the Budget for the financial year 2017. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2410/1) We proceed to the discussion of the clauses in the Bill containing the first adjustment to the Ways and Means budget for the 2017 fiscal year. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2410/1) The draft law has 13 articles. The bill has 13 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-plenair-ip175x.u127	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. We begin the discussion of the articles of the draft law on the first adjustment of the general expenditure budget for the financial year 2017. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2411/1+6) We proceed to the discussion of the sections of the bill containing the first adjustment to the General Estimates for the 2017 fiscal year. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt. 85) (2411/1+6) No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-plenair-ip175x.u128	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-28-54-plenair-ip175x.u129	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 28 June 2017, I propose that you discuss the legislative proposal (Mrs Sabien Lahaye-Battheu) amending the law of 16 March 1968 on the police on road traffic as regards the expiry of the right to steer non-motorised vehicles, Nos 440/1 to 4, to be postponed to Thursday 6 July 2017. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 28 June 2017, I propose that you postpone the discussion of the bill (Mrs.Sabien Lahaye-Battheu) amending the Law of 16 March 1968 on the Road Traffic Police with regard to the revocation of the right to drive for non-motorized vehicles, Nos. 440/1 to 4, to Thursday, 6 July 2017. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Colleagues, for technical reasons, because of a reset of equipment, we will now have a very short suspension of five minutes. The meeting is adjourned. Next sitting on Wednesday, June 28, 2017 at 6.47 p.m. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Wednesday 28 June 2017 at 6.47 p.m.
