ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-10-54-commissie-ic557x.u1	Madam Chair, my best wishes to the Minister, her team, you and the colleagues I have not met since the beginning of the year. As regards the development of the energy pact, I see that Mr Dierick is also asking the question, but on behalf of his party she had already had the opportunity to remind you in order that the energy pact in particular and the proposals were expected before the holidays. We're talking about summer holidays, not Christmas holidays. Like us, she didn't see anything coming. I will quote from what I read in the Belga dispatch, which translated Ms. Dierick's words: "If the minister sets a deadline, I imagine it is agreed with the government and respected. As for the deadline contained in the government agreement, it is trampled on," notes the Member, regretting that neither the plan nor the pact is included in the government's priorities for 2017. "We're doing some on-site work," says Dierick. That's what was in the Belga dispatch. I didn't believe my eyes. So I went to read the original article from the Standaard and I was able to see that in fact it was even worse than in Belga's dispatch. On y parlait de "getreuzel Marghem" et notre collégue y affirmit à juste titre: "Doing nothing is also a choice, but far from forward-looking." That was the first element of my question. The second element is related to your new schedule since it was understood that your new schedule was to reach an agreement by the end of 2017. You will recall Chris Peeters' interview - the other Chris Peeters, the head of Elia - in the October 5th newspaper L'Écho, where he said that he had to decide by the summer. If it weren't for the summer, that is, June 21, we'd be out of time. There is a tension between his calendar - by the summer, otherwise it will be too late for Elia, in any case - and your new calendar that talks about the end of 2017. In short, where have we been since our last discussion of the evolution of this pact? This was discussed a little at the time of your general policy note, but I think it is necessary to be able to take a more in-depth look at it today, since we are given an opportunity to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-10-54-commissie-ic557x.u2	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, my best wishes for a healthy and positive 2017. Madam Minister, my first question from 2017 is again about the energy pact and the energy vision. I can only hope that 2017 will be the year in which we will finally have an energy pact. My question is therefore about the calendar and how we will continue to work on the energy pact. The most recent discussion in this committee was about the policy paper and then you said that the work on the energy vision should actually take place in 2016, but that you got the signal from the Regions that they wanted to finish an energy vision first. During the discussion of your policy paper, you said that you were waiting for a sign from the regional ministers so that they could first develop their vision. You also said at the time that you were already engaged in political consultation with the regional ministers, but that you had to wait, above all, for the answer from the Flemish Minister for Energy. I would therefore like to ask what is going on with the further planning of an energy pact. Madam Minister, how did you conduct the political consultations with the regional ministers? When did these consultations take place? What's the result of it? In the meantime, have you received an answer from the Flemish Minister responsible for Energy? If so, what was the answer? The meeting for the further exchange of views would take place this month, i.e. in January. Has a date been set yet? Once you have the views of the various ministers, how will you achieve a well-founded interfederal energy vision? How do you see the procedure going? Which experts and bodies will be called upon further?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-10-54-commissie-ic557x.u3	First of all, Madam President, Madam Minister, as well as your entire team, fellow Members, I wish you a great 2017. I think it is no coincidence that the first question from 2017 is a question about the Energy Pact. It would be a good idea to make this an absolute priority in the coming year. That was supposed to be the case in 2016, even in 2015. This country is begging for an energy vision, supported by the sector and by the political world. A compass for our energy future is needed more than ever. I understand the impatience of the colleagues. Members of the majority have already explicitly echoed this. I would like to use this first round of questions to look at the state of affairs, at the first steps that will preferably be taken this month. More specifically, recently there has apparently been friction with regional entities; that is how I perceive it. Madam Minister, as in this committee, your regional colleagues also seem to lose faith in your role in this dossier and in this important process. I would therefore like to invite you to bring the first positive news of this year to this committee and to make it clear that we are on our way to an energy pact.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-10-54-commissie-ic557x.u4	Madam President, I thank you for your good wishes and, in turn, I wish you all the best for your health, constructive work and interest in the work that we are going to do this year. Indeed, Mr Calvo, it is no coincidence that we are attacking this afternoon's series of questions through the energy pact. As I have explained on many occasions, it has not been possible to start work on a pact, in which several partners decide to move in the same direction and make commitments in relation to it. That is the definition of the pact! Instead, each of the potential partners undertook - it was the Regions that asked me in 2016 - a work on themselves, on their skills to first develop their own vision. I remember Mrs Dierick's question about whether and how we would be able to aggregate these visions, because they can develop in every direction. Fortunately, we have a common interest in getting out of nuclear power in 2025 and finding ways to produce and supply our country with the energy needed at the best price and under the most clean production conditions possible. Of these three elements, all agree. Therefore, we will work on a timeline. Indeed, in Flanders, on the basis of the proposal which was voted on almost unanimously and in Wallonia, on the basis of the plans of Minister Furlan, certain visions developed until 2050. But within this perspective, intermediate short-, medium- and long-term prospects can be expected. For, in the long run, one can always invent what one wants by saying, for example: "In 2050, I would like all cars to operate with electricity. In 2050, I would like all buildings to be properly insulated and solar panels on all roofs, etc." We can say that, of course, but there is nothing to predict that this will happen, that it is useful or that we will be able to do it. The ten-year journey that takes place before, by 2025, is a more difficult, more complicated journey, but on which we have data that will allow us to work together. What's the status of my consultations? As I have already told you, I first met Mrs. Fremault. I forgot that you were from the Brussels Region or, in any case, from the city of Brussels included in this Region. I must say that at the Brussels level, vision and work are also developed. I therefore met Mrs Fremault last November. We agreed that I also meet with the other two ministers and that we, the four energy ministers, see at some point to present our work to each other. As you know and this is the subject of one of your questions, I have a guidance note that was presented in December 2016 and that is the realization of the federal development of its vision for the 2017-2027 deadline. We have all worked and we would like to present each other these visions. The date has now been set. This is January 30, 2017. We will therefore be working on the necessary time in the day of January 30 on this presentation exercise that we will be able to do between ourselves and at the beginning of which we will guide our way of working together. Ms. Dierick asked specific questions. How will this be done? What vision will you develop? What are the experts and forums you are going to consult? I cannot answer these questions yet, but after 30 January I will certainly have a start at the beginning of the answer, which will be a common beginning of the answer. I will also tell my colleagues – as is probably the case in their respective parliaments – that questions are being asked and that we have a real interest in developing a common strategy. I saw Paul Furlan in mid-December. And this Friday, January 13, 2017, I will meet with Mr Tommelein, the Flemish Minister of Energy, with whom I will talk as I did with the two previous ones, in order to prepare the work that we will do together on January 30, which may seem a bit academic but which is good to create the team spirit and which will make us reconnect with our way of working when we worked on burden sharing. That is the current situation; that is the situation to date. I know that the Energy Pact has been expected for a very long time before this Parliament. I know that, in the government agreement, it is indicated that it would be desirable for it to be able to intervene at the end of 2015. This was not possible for various reasons that I explained to you. This has not been possible in particular due to the lack of combatants. In 2016, I asked, on several occasions, my colleagues, who told me that they wanted to work on their own vision. Today, we have to share the different visions. I will ask them to report back to you on the ideas they are developing and how we are going to aggregate all these ideas into a coherent whole. In this way, we will be able to monitor the work that is being done. And I intend to "be in the box" during the first six months of this year, so that our meetings are very regular in order to make concrete progress.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-10-54-commissie-ic557x.u5	Madam Minister, in my opinion, it is not because of the lack of fighters, but because there have been too many cock fights that things have not advanced. I am not targeting anyone here, with the exception of the ministers potentially involved. Still, we find ourselves in a situation where Belgium is unable to say in concrete terms how it intends to start its energy transition, which is truly deplorable. I repeat that I am not targeting anyone in particular. We will wait for the January 30th meeting to re-examine the matter. I have taken note of the resolutions adopted last year. As we meet with you once a month in committee as part of the oral questions, we will take stock of the matter at the beginning of February. I hope that this will not be a simple compilation of the four visions and above all that these different visions will be compatible. Otherwise, I do not know how the actors can organize their work. I would like to recall the intervention of Elia, who said that if we did not see clear by June, we would go directly into the wall with regard to the nuclear exit plan.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-10-54-commissie-ic557x.u6	Madam Minister, it is a positive point that there are already concrete dates. On Friday 13 January you will join the Flemish Minister. I hope this isn't an unlucky day. I am sorry that we have had to wait so long. I thought he'd finished his vision when I read his tweets and stuff, but we have to wait another month before there's any consultation with you. I look forward to it. I had already mentioned 30 January as D-day, but if I understand correctly, it is actually just a first acquaintance with the various ministers, on which the views are exchanged. It will only then be possible to start the process, because then there is still a need for consultation in order to achieve a common vision. That will not only be at political level, because I assume that there will also be alignment with Parliament and with stakeholders, so that it becomes a socially-supported vision. That will, of course, take some time. It's a good intention. I have good courage and a positive attitude. I look forward to 30 January and hope to get feedback on this soon. Let's all look forward to it. I look forward to your answer in February.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-10-54-commissie-ic557x.u7	Mrs Dierick, I would like to strengthen you in your positivism. Friday January 13th may be an unlucky day, but January 30th is my birthday. I would have preferred 30 January 2015 or 30 January 2016, so I think it is a little late, but I think it is very nice that, on the occasion of my birthday, the four Energy Ministers will come together to discuss the creation of an energy pact for the first time, albeit relatively exploratory. For this edition it was on my gift list and this one is granted, for which I am grateful. All madness on a stick, two meetings is of course not quite famous yet. We must schedule a meeting here, either before 30 January or very shortly thereafter, to debrief the Minister and to play the ball there very briefly and to give Parliament the input and support that is necessary. I'm looking at the chairman of the ad interim. Perhaps we can schedule a meeting in our work soon after 30 January to find out what the situation is. I believe that a short parliamentary follow-up is necessary, especially in view of the slowness of events so far. It is not obvious to bring people together, but it must not be at the expense of the participatory nature of this process. It is not enough for the four ministers to agree on something. If an energy pact really needs to render and be a compass for the future, it must also be carried by society and beyond the boundaries of majority and opposition. In this respect, it is important that you also agree on 30 January on how we can ensure that an energy pact is signed with a strong social consensus. I would like to invite you to do so, because that is a very important aspect, in addition to the timing, of course.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-10-54-commissie-ic557x.u8	Is it correct, minister, that you have proposed to the government that PwC be appointed as an independent expert to calculate the Tihange 1 levy due by Electrabel and EDF? Is it true that you had the agreement of the two nuclear producers to designate this actor? Were you aware that PwC is used by the Nuclear Forum to produce a study on the need to keep nuclear in our country's energy mix? In other words, is it correct that you wanted to have two nuclear producers estimated by a consulting firm otherwise employed by these two producers? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-10-54-commissie-ic557x.u9	Madam Minister, in addition, you have finally appointed Roland Berger as an independent expert to resolve the dispute between you and Electrabel and EDF under the Tihange 1 Convention. Can you tell us what competitive bidding procedures were used after the stage that my colleague recalled? What other experts, if any, have been consulted under this appeal procedure? What are the dates of the stages of this call (date of publication, deadline for submission of applications, etc.). Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-10-54-commissie-ic557x.u10	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, in this context it should be recalled that the law expressly states that there is no need for a conciliation and/or arbitration agreement to be made subject to the law on public procurement. This is laid down in the Public Procurement Act of 15 June 2006, which expressly provides in article 18 that such arbitration and conciliation services are exempt from the application of the rules on public procurement. I quote: "Public contracts relating to arbitration and conciliation services shall not be subject to the application of this Law." Despite this, we still took the trouble of soliciting several possible consultants. In fact, we asked for four. As I have already explained, KPMG and Deloitte told us that they had a conflict of interest for various professional reasons, either they were revisers of each other, or consultants of the other, etc. Two companies, PwC and Roland Berger, remained in competition. I was obviously aware, Mrs. Lalieux, that PwC had done a study at the request of the Nuclear Forum. I knew each other's pedigree. In addition, the two remaining consultants were accepted a priori for their skills by the operators, thus by Electrabel and EDF, but I had the choice. It is well known that the choice had to be made by common accord, but since they had no obstacle to each other, it was ultimately the government that would choose. The question of choice therefore arose on specific financial points. PwC made a proposal between 120 and 150 hours for 22,000 to 33,000 euros but it was a commitment of means. PwC felt that this might be the range needed to do the work, but they were not sure and could not make a definitive commitment to do the work in that range. As far as Roland Berger is concerned, we had an offer with a result commitment for 180 hours for 55 000 euros. We preferred to choose the consultant who was committed to achieving a result within a specified number of hours but we negotiated the price and reduced it to 44 000 euros, thus a 20% reduction from the initial offer, knowing that the cost of this expertise is distributed among the three parties to the agreement: EDF, Electrabel and the Belgian State. These are the conditions under which the appointment of the expert took place. The expert pledged his honour to carry out his mandate independently. There were also the same conditions met in PwC's head. There was equality in the absence of conflict of interest, guarantee and commitment of independence, but we chose Roland Berger on the basis of these financial criteria. We have been asked to have the mission letter; I will communicate it to you. Can we make a copy of it? I'm done right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-10-54-commissie-ic557x.u11	Madam Minister, thank you for your answers and for the mission letter, even if it comes a little late. Compared to PwC, I find it a bit unfortunate that this nuclear mix study did not consider a potential conflict of interest. But I guess it was said that it was another service, with more staff, that would take care of it. In view of the conflicts of interest in consulting clubs, we can now ask ourselves a lot of questions, since they work for everyone and this indifferently.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-10-54-commissie-ic557x.u12	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-10-54-commissie-ic557x.u13	Non, justice. I'm talking about PwC and not the government, minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-10-54-commissie-ic557x.u14	As far as I'm concerned, I have nothing to add to your comments.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-10-54-commissie-ic557x.u15	Minister, in the parliamentary work leading up to the extension of the old Doel 1&2 nuclear power plants, you said: "A possible replacement of one or two of the lids has not yet been decided. Detailed studies are under way. The planned budgets can be found under the main primary components, or "primary mechanics", of the table. The budget of the order of €80 million is shown in these amounts. But there is not yet a decision to replace. Replace only when necessary on the basis of the information collected." From now on, it can be assumed that the studies have been completed. What are these studies doing? What decision has been made? Can you give us the exact budget required to do so? If this is not yet the case, at what time are we finally going to be fixed in this respect?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-10-54-commissie-ic557x.u16	Mr Nollet, as far as this matter is concerned, my remarks go back to the presentation or debate sessions on the nuclear royalty at the beginning of 2016, and are in the hands of AFCN. I therefore invite you to question Minister Jan Jambon on the follow-up to this dossier. At the time, I gave you some guidance, and I even think it was my collaborator who passed it on to you. I understand that you were concerned about the outcome of these studies and possible developments, but I cannot give you the answer, because only the AFCN that has to examine the subject can give you the answer. This matter therefore falls within the competence of Minister Jan Jambon.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-10-54-commissie-ic557x.u17	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. However, when I ask the AFCN, through Mr. Jambon, she tells me that the amounts are not within their jurisdiction and sends me back to you for studies, etc. I don't like going around in circles...
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-10-54-commissie-ic557x.u18	...No, but you have two questions. As far as the amounts are concerned, I will tell you what I have already answered...
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-10-54-commissie-ic557x.u19	I have four questions! What are these studies doing? What decisions are made? Can you give me the exact budget figures? If not, when?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-10-54-commissie-ic557x.u20	I don't have these studies. I am therefore not physically able to give you the result. These studies are known to Electrabel who sends you back to me saying that he does not know the amounts, but at least he knows the results of these studies. In any case, for the amounts, the answer is always immutable. As regards the investments made for the youth of these plants, they were contractually and contractually defined to the tune of 700 million. We have already talked at length about all this. That's all I need to know in this context.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-10-54-commissie-ic557x.u21	I don't want to repeat the debate, I'm just asking for the information. What it cost. Not to repeat the debate on the 700 million, etc.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-10-54-commissie-ic557x.u22	I can't give it to you, but everything I tell you is perfectly accurate. Inspections have been carried out by AFCN and I cannot give you any information about this.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-10-54-commissie-ic557x.u23	So we're facing a problem, Madam Minister and Madam President. I will see how I can bring this matter before Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-10-54-commissie-ic557x.u24	I don't understand very well when you say "AFCN doesn't answer me". But ask the Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-10-54-commissie-ic557x.u25	That's what he did. Mr. Nollet said that he had interrogated AFCN through the Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-10-54-commissie-ic557x.u26	Madam President, Madam Minister, I come to my first question. What exactly did you notify the European Commission in the context of the "State aid" dispute in connection with the following three cases: Tihange 1, Doel 1, Doel 2 and allocation contribution? I need to know whether you just notified the compensation system or just the royalties (tax measures) or both. Indeed, we have different versions if we read the government press release of 30 September and your statements in committee. The second question is still related to the same subject. On 7 September, and despite your exchanges with it in an attempt to deter it, the European Commission came to the preliminary conclusion that the extension of the operating time of the Doel 1 and Doel 2 plants contained certain elements of State aid within the meaning of Article 170 of the Treaty. It is also known that the European Commission has also gone back to Tihange 1 to see if there is any reason to call the scheme in place State aid. Can you tell us what is happening to the development of the dossier for each of our three plants concerned? Have there been any exchanges and/or contacts? What is the content of this? Is there a timetable, if only about when the decisions will fall?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-10-54-commissie-ic557x.u27	Madam Secretary, this is a file that's been dragging on for a while. We had to help you a little bit. The European Commission has done the same. In the end, you had to notify the European Commission's Competition DG of the various nuclear conventions. However, it is not quite clear to me what you have notified and what the situation is. As this dossier has potential impact, I would like to ask you the following questions today. What exactly have you notified to the European Commission? What contacts have there been with the European Commission on this dossier recently? Has there been an evolution since the formal notification of the conventions and the draft laws? Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-10-54-commissie-ic557x.u28	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I do not know when we last talked about this issue, but we have had enough time to talk about it. Mr Nollet, you are referring to a press release of 30 September. Whatever. I will tell you what has been notified, as I repeat often. This is in particular the system of compensation contained in the agreements of Tihange 1, Doel 1 and Doel 2. In a formal notification, the Belgian State ticks the box where it states that the State considers that there is no State aid. The Belgian State considers that there is no State aid in the compensation scheme provided for in these extension agreements for Tihange 1, Doel 1 and Doel 2. In the exchange with the Commission, we also addressed the text of the preliminary draft law on the contribution of nuclear distribution. This, of course, led to the complete letter, although, as you say, the Commission's "preliminary" letter, which says, in three paragraphs – you will remember all the debate we have had on this issue – that we could continue, without displacing parliamentary work on the law on the allocation contribution, since this text did not contain state aid within the meaning of European competition law. This was for the month of September. Contacts have continued and discussions have taken place with my Chief of Staff who has been following this work since the beginning. At one point, around December, the Commission declared the complete dossier, which starts with a two-month deadline, which – it is the European texts which state this – the Commission must give its final opinion on the matter. To answer your question, this means that if the deadlines are met – I remain cautious – we would have an answer by 15 February 2017.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-10-54-commissie-ic557x.u29	Madam Minister, thank you. Therefore, there was no longer an exchange on the substance, but just a clarification of the latest expected date, i.e. February 15, 2017. The Commission is considering its final opinion. Second, you have successfully transferred the compensation system and allocation contribution components. But for Tihange 1, I suppose you also transferred the whole mechanism as it was.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-10-54-commissie-ic557x.u30	Yes, Tihange 1 compensation system.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-10-54-commissie-ic557x.u31	So everything was transmitted.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-10-54-commissie-ic557x.u32	Madam President, I put my question to the House. 15690 in a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-10-54-commissie-ic557x.u33	Madam Chair, Minister Jan Bens, boss of the AFCN, incidentally indicated in the House's nuclear safety sub-committee on 15 December that Electrabel had been withdrawn from ONDRAF's approval for the treatment, packaging and disposal of its radioactive waste. As a result, these wastes (not to be confused with spent fuel) have accumulated in Doel and Tihange since the end of 2015 and are no longer transported to Belgoprocess in Dessel. Can you explain the reasons for this withdrawal and how ONDRAF communicated this decision to the general public? The operator of the Doel and Tihange power plants said he wanted to find "quickly" a solution because "capacity is limited". Can you tell us how much radioactive waste is currently stored in Doel and Tihange, as well as the state of occupancy and the state of the remaining storage capacity at the sites? Can you also tell us what Electrabel is putting in place to remedy this situation? Can you finally tell us when Electrabel will file his file to recover his approval?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-10-54-commissie-ic557x.u34	Madam President, Madam Minister, I was somewhat surprised and surprised to hear from a hearing with the Federal Agency for Nuclear Control on the safety culture in Belgian nuclear power stations, which has also recently taken some measures on Belgian nuclear power stations. The NRAS would have more specifically withdrawn the recognition for waste conditioning for certain nuclear sites. This is a measure which, of course, one does not just take. I understand that recognition is being reviewed and reviewed on a regular basis. Electrabel must submit a new dossier for this. The last file was not in order at all and was incomplete, so the recognition had been withdrawn since the end of 2015. I also understand that, in the meantime, things aren't all right. The FANC has spotted us. Such withdrawal would have occurred for multiple sites and/or operators. The hearing requested clarification on this matter. However, Mr Bens could not give this, which in itself makes sense because this is not his competence. I therefore have a number of questions to ask you as the guardian minister of the NIRAS. Which type of approval or authorisation are we talking about? Can you outline a specific timeline for this dossier? When did the NRAS take action? What is the current state of affairs? What does this decision in practice mean for the storage of waste and the storage capacity for waste on the sites in question? Have such decisions been made in the last five years? Has there been any withdrawal of waste conditioning and storage authorisations in the last five years? If so, can you give an overview of the relevant approvals withdrawn? Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-10-54-commissie-ic557x.u35	Minister, I am not going to repeat what my colleagues have said about the withdrawal of Electrabel accreditation by ONDRAF. Like them, I would like to know the reasons for this withdrawal. What corrective measures are required from Electrabel and within what time frame? What is the status of the interim storage capacity at the nuclear power plant sites themselves? When will they be exceeded?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-10-54-commissie-ic557x.u36	Ladies and gentlemen, as provided for in the Royal Decree of 18 November 2002, the NIRAS granted Electrabel a new recognition for a period of two years on 11 December 2015. This was done in the context of the renewal of the recognition for the processing, conditioning and collection of their radioactive waste, an important step in the waste management process in which the suitability of the process, method or installation for the production of radioactive waste meeting the criteria of the NRAS can be verified. It is in this context that in early 2016 the NIRAS launched full audits of the radioactive waste processing processes on the sites of Doel and Tihange. These audits have shown that the quality of radiological data cannot be ensured by the operator. In view of these results, ONDRAF considered that a series of points should be corrected by the operator and decided to temporarily suspend the approval for the treatment and packaging of radioactive waste at the Doel and Tihange sites, the time to meet its expectations concerning in particular the calculation instruments and methods used for the characterisation of radioactive waste. This suspension was decided in March 2016 for the Doel nuclear power plant and in April 2016 for the Tihange nuclear power plant. As a result, Electrabel cannot temporarily transfer ownership of its nuclear waste from Doel and Tihange to ONDRAF. According to current assessments, Electrabel has sufficient storage capacity to meet its needs during the suspension period. Engie Electrabel must not submit new files to recover its approval. Since the suspension of approvals, a process of questions/answers on the actions to be taken has been initiated. This process aims to provide all the necessary clarifications to the issues raised and will gradually lead to a definitive answer for all questions, question by question. At the end of this ongoing process, the suspension of approvals should be lifted. In conclusion, the successful execution by Engie Electrabel of the actions resulting from the blocking remarks and questions made by ONDRAF, in the framework of the above-mentioned radiological audits, will lead to a gradual renewal of the authorisation relating to radiological characterisation. Finally, I asked ONDRAF, at the end of December 2016, to give me a detailed report on this matter, including an overview of the past situation and the approvals of other nuclear operators. I am awaiting this report from ONDRAF. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-10-54-commissie-ic557x.u37	Minister, this is from March and April 2016 and you are asking for a report in December 2016 because I assume that, like us at that time, you are learning the situation. It's, to say the least, special. One of my questions was to see how ONDRAF had communicated this decision to the general public because it was Mr Bens who, incidentally, said it in committee. But it seems that even you were not informed either. It's special, though! I understand better why I do not have an answer to my first question about how ONDRAF communicated its decision in April and March to the general public. That was the subject of my first question. I see there are no other elements. It's okay. That is the case, but it shows the extent of the problem. With regard to the precise volume of waste currently stored, you do not give a figure. You're saying there's enough space right now. But we don't know how long this will last since the exit is going to be gradual and the green lights will have to be given. It is not known what the volume occupied today is or what space is still available. You may be confident that a solution will be found quickly but there is not yet a green light. You're saying you asked for a report. In view of the lack of a precise answer on the numbers and dates, I will ask you for a copy of this report so that we can see the extent of the problem, in the wake of what you are going to receive. In the field of nuclear security, these issues of withdrawals of authorisation, even partial or temporary, deserve the information of Parliament and the government. For your part, it is not normal for you to discover this following what Mr Bens mentioned. For the same price, if he hadn't said anything, we would never have learned it! Can you commit yourself to forwarding a copy of this report to the secretariat of the commission?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-10-54-commissie-ic557x.u38	I do not see any problem, even though we know that in these matters there are sometimes some obstacles to confidentiality. We'll see what we're going to say, but the answer is yes, a priori.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-10-54-commissie-ic557x.u39	Madam Secretary, I would like to thank you in advance for delivering the report. That is a logical demarche after the chronology which we have just been able to take note of. We as well as you apparently, the guardian minister of custody when it comes to you, it is actually more problematic than when it comes to us, Members of Parliament discovered in December 2016 that since March 2016, almost nine months earlier, there has been a problem that has led the NIRAS to withdraw recognition for the conditioning of nuclear waste on the sites of Doel and Tihange. I don't understand how something like this could stay under the radar for nine months for you, the custody minister. I don't understand how that's possible. Secondly, you say that the recognition was definitively withdrawn in March 2016. The formal decision was taken in March or April 2016. That was a long time ago, but it seems that the problems have still not been resolved today. After all, you say that questions are now being asked between Engie Electrabel and the NIRAS. Engie shouldn't send letters to the NIRAS, Engie should solve those problems. I am very concerned, Madam Minister, that the problems which have given rise to the decision of the NIRAS................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... That worries me and I will certainly come back to this in the relatively short term.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-10-54-commissie-ic557x.u40	Minister, I think it is important to submit the report. We don't know the timing. We do not know how long this situation will last.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-10-54-commissie-ic557x.u41	Ms. Chair, Minister, Elia prepared her report allowing the strategic reserve to be established on November 15, 2016. DG Energy forwarded its report to you on 15 December 2016. On the other hand, we know that your decision must be taken no later than 15 February, but we have no doubt that such a decision is prepared long in advance, given the reports that are already in your possession. Minister, can you explain your position on this matter by giving us, for example, a fork? Could you tell us about the different dimensions already set in terms of demand management, available capacity, etc.- Is that what you're saying? What information are you still waiting for?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-10-54-commissie-ic557x.u42	Madam Minister, Mr Nollet has already outlined the situation. So I'm going straight to my questions. Have you received the opinion of the AD Energy on the need for a strategic reserve? If so, what decision are you preparing for? Last year you decided not to create an additional strategic reserve. The strategic reserve already contains a volume of 750 megawatts contracted in 2014 for a period of three years. This contract will expire this year. Do you have any idea what will happen to this contracted quantity? Can these power stations come back on the market? The policy paper states that, in response to the CREG's request, consultations are being conducted on the calculation assumptions and methodology used by the transmission system operator to determine the volume of the strategic reserve, necessary in the winter of 2017-2018. Has this meeting taken place yet? If so, when? If not, why hasn't that happened?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-10-54-commissie-ic557x.u43	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to inform you that, in accordance with Article 7quater of the Electricity Act, the decision I have to make to set up a strategic reserve for the 2017-2018 winter period must be communicated to Elia by 15 January 2017 and not 15 February. It's really close. That doesn't mean I'm already quite determined. That's why I can't even give you a fork. The current case is very delicate. As you know, in determining whether or not to set up a strategic reserve, I must take into account the opinions that were given to me by Elia and DG Energy, but also the facts that occurred in November 2016. It has to be noted that our security of supply has been undermined by the simultaneous occurrence of various events: many French nuclear units stopped, nuclear units stopped at home, the absence of wind, a period of cold, a reduced import due to the flow of closures. We had the opportunity to discuss it together in committee. It is for this reason that this year this decision is more difficult to make. I can't give you forks right now that allow you to see what direction this is going to take. In fact, Elia's work envisages that there may be no need for a strategic reserve. I want to be extremely careful. I want to be able to analyze all this in every detail to make my decision as carefully as possible. In accordance with Article 7quinquies of the Law on Electricity, in the event of a tender, production units which are the subject of a notification of temporary or definitive shutdown and units which are actually under cocoon have an obligation to participate, while demand management is allowed to participate in the strategic reserve. In response to your specific question, Mrs Dierick, about the possible return to the market of units that had been retained in the strategic reserve, there is no objection to this. This is one of the reasons why CREG wants the conditions for returning to the market of these units to be specified in the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-10-54-commissie-ic557x.u44	Minister, I understand your caution, given recent experiences and the uncertainty of this intermittent energy that has become nuclear energy. We have seen this in France once and in Belgium today because, at the moment when we are talking, Doel 4 is at a standstill, unexpectedly; we still do not know why. This happened in France for safety reasons that we know, but a dozen plants have also had to be closed. All of this necessarily generates uncertainty, which you have to deal with. Nevertheless, you have five days left, since it is January 15th. I apologize for the 15th of February: I had left on page 11 of the report of our discussions and your comments, as part of the general policy note. There is no concern, and there is no accusation behind it. I'm just saying where I found my source for the 15th of February, but I should have gone back to the law, which I didn't do. For the rest, you still have five days. I hope that, at this time, you will not ask for a postponement. In my view, this would not be possible, because it remains an important dimension of an energy policy, unfortunately necessary given the intermittent nature of nuclear power.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-10-54-commissie-ic557x.u45	Thank you for your reply, Madam Secretary. I understand that you have received the necessary information from Elijah and that you are currently looking at everything. It is difficult to comment on this now. I have every sympathy for that. With regard to my final question, there would be a consultation with the CREG on the calculation assumptions. Has this consultation with the CREG already taken place?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-10-54-commissie-ic557x.u46	You're talking about the consultation between CREG and who?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-10-54-commissie-ic557x.u47	You mentioned in your policy paper that the CREG recommended consultation on the calculation assumptions and the methodology used by Elijah to determine the volume in a different way. That meeting hasn't happened yet? You announced it in your policy paper.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-10-54-commissie-ic557x.u48	To answer your question, we will immediately interview the collaborator, because I had failed to foresee this in the answer. Last week, because of the circumstances, all the employees were not present and I will send you the answer, possibly by e-mail, so that you won't wait if you don't have any more questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-10-54-commissie-ic557x.u49	Okay, thank you. You are waiting a busy week: on 13 January there will be consultation with Minister Tommelein and on 15 January the volume of the strategic reserve will be determined. I wish you much energy.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-10-54-commissie-ic557x.u50	Thank you very much, Mrs. Dierick. I'll need it!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-10-54-commissie-ic557x.u51	We come to Question No 14343 by Mr Jean-Marc Nollet.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-10-54-commissie-ic557x.u52	Minister, is your answer complete?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-10-54-commissie-ic557x.u53	Yes, I have a complete answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-10-54-commissie-ic557x.u54	Madam President, I therefore propose to turn my oral question into a written question in order to save some time. The minister's staff will be able to provide me with the answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-10-54-commissie-ic557x.u55	Question No 14343 by Mr Jean-Marc Nollet is transformed into a written question. The same applies to Mr Kristof Calvo's question No 15690 in point 21 of the agenda.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-10-54-commissie-ic557x.u56	Madam President, Minister, the Nuclear Supplies Commission (NPC) delivered its decision on December 12th: ENGIE must insure and adjust its provisions. It appears that the NPC estimates that more than $1.8 billion is missing in the provisioning fund, thus confirming the findings of Estelle Cantillon's study, commissioned and published several months ago by ecologists. Madam Minister, I assume that you or your collaborators knew about it because I broadcast it. On this occasion, we already announced the use of an artificially inflated discount rate of 4.8%. In the newspaper L'Écho of December 14, 2016, the president of the CNP suggested that his Commission had already indicated, three years ago, that this rate was unsustainable. Madam Minister, how (in what form) and when was this said transmitted to the supervisory authority of the time and/or to the authority that succeeded it, in this case you? Can you give us the conclusions of the CPN, in particular in terms of discount rates and cost estimates, and then draw the amounts necessary to restore the right financing of the nuclear reserve fund? In the same newspaper, the president referred to another conclusion concerning the possibility of revising the amount of provisions without waiting for the new three-year deadline. Clearly, the NPC has done an in-depth work. Can you be complete and precise about all the positions and decisions of the NPC, so that we do not discover them, element by element, in subsequent interviews but that we are informed of the whole in committee? Is the need for absolute transparency in this area not legitimate and necessary even outside the possible opening-up of capital, as mentioned by the President of the CPN in his interview? Can you also give us the discount rate initially suggested and desired by Synatom? That's important information. As part of its re-evaluation file submitted on 12 September, Le Soir refers to a rate of 4.8%. Furthermore, can you tell us what the reactions and opinions of ONDRAF on these initial proposals from Synatom were? I would also like you to inform us about the discount rates currently applied in the other countries of the European Union. This is part of the overall reflection. At the end of 2015, provisions reached EUR 8.4 billion (3.6 billion for decommissioning and 4.7 billion for spent fuel management). What amounts are now to be reached for each of the following years up to and including the end of 2018, both for decommissioning and for spent fuel management? What are the scenarios and assumptions used to determine these amounts? I would like you to tell us what prompted the introduction in 2015 of a provision allowing Electrabel to request a postponement of the decommissioning of nuclear power plants and whether a request to that effect has already been raised or filed? Behind the challenge of defining the discount rate as correctly as possible, you have to be careful about this because you know that there is always the Bianca project, on which I would like you to be able to make a topo as well. What guarantee can you give us that the parent company Engie will not release itself from the Electrabel ball (and its debt to dismantle and manage nuclear waste) in good faith and on the backs of Belgian taxpayers?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-10-54-commissie-ic557x.u57	My speech will go along the same lines as Mr Nollet's first question on Synatom. The Commission on Nuclear Provisions has reduced the discount rate applied to nuclear provisions. Since 2013, it has stood at 4.8%. It decided to reduce this rate to 4.2% at the end of 2016, 3.85 % at the end of 2017 and 3.5% at the end of 2018. What are the additional amounts due by nuclear producers pursuant to this Decision? Is it contested by the producers?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-10-54-commissie-ic557x.u58	Colleagues, these very complex questions lead to relatively long answers, but that is the case. I will respond later to the one on waste management B and C. Is that right?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-10-54-commissie-ic557x.u59	Yes, because two issues address this management.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-10-54-commissie-ic557x.u60	So I'll answer it later. The Nuclear Supplies Commission was established in 2003 with its own legal personality to carry out its work independently, free from pressure. This work is confidential. However, I can tell you that the 2016 triennium review began on September 12. However, the work had begun long before the publication you ordered from Ms. Cantillon. The law provides that the Commission shall deliver its opinion within one day. In the present case, it was returned on 12 December. Its independence is essential so that the experts who make up it can work with all the serenity required. This body forwarded its conclusions to me at the end of December. Moreover, I am very close, with all due diligence, the reorganization project including the possible introduction to the Electrabel Stock Exchange, known as the "Bianca Plan". I was, of course, particularly attentive to the comments made at the financial press conference in the last quarter of 2016 and am fully aware that the greatest vigilance is desired, not only for the provisions, but also for this project. With regard to the question of the introduction in 2015 of a special provision to postpone dismantling, you refer, unless I am mistaken, to the Royal Decree supplementing the Royal Decree of 30 November 2011 laying down safety requirements for nuclear installations with regard to the decommissioning of the same installations. I therefore suggest that you turn to my colleague Jan Jambon, who is responsible for nuclear safety. Having said that, I come back to the Commission on Nuclear Supplies (CPN). The Commission had already reported in 2013 that the historical rate of 5% was unsustainable and had carried out a first downward revision, raising the rate to 4.8%, which was also used in France for the updating of EDF's provisions. In its 2013 opinion, the CPN indicated that it wanted to observe the evolution of long-term interest rates and that it planned to make a further downward adjustment, should the downward trend be sustained. The work of 2016 is therefore logically part of this approach. The CPN's opinion is addressed to Synatom, which draws up its annual accounts in accordance with Belgian legislation on statutory accounts. This notice must be located as part of an iterative process. Therefore, if significant changes were to occur in the choice of the scenario or in the costs of processing, packaging, storage and landfilling of waste or spent fuel, or in the financial parameters of the terms of the loans, or any other significant changes in the financial parameters that could change the rating of Electrabel, the NPC will take this into account, at the latest, in the next three-year evaluation. The Commission asked Synatom to apply a discount rate of 3,5 % gradually between 2016 and 2018, resulting in the following discount rates: at 31 December 2016, discount rate of 4,20 %; at 31 December 2017, discount rate of 3,85 % and at 31 December 2018, discount rate of 3,5 %. In accordance with the Act of 11 April 2003 on nuclear provisions, the assessment of these provisions resulting, inter alia, from the progressive application of the change in the discount rate between 2016 and 2018 must be reproduced by the nuclear provisioning company in its annual accounts, in accordance with Belgian accounting standards, in particular Articles 50 to 55 of the Royal Decree of 30 January 2001, which stipulates, inter alia, that "the provisions for risks and charges must meet the criteria of prudence, sincerity and good faith". The next three-year review in 2019 will lead to an evaluation of the discount rate. However, if, in the meantime, significant developments were to occur in the financial markets and/or in the field of medium-term macroeconomic forecasts, the Committee reserves the right to revise its opinion, in advance, on the discount rate to be used. The decrease from 4.8 to 3.5 means a futures increase of 1,718 million euros at the end of 2016. The exact value will be recalculated at the end of each year's respective years. The discount rate initially used by Synatom in its 2016 proposal was 4.8%. It was on this basis that ONDRAF submitted its opinion. The Agency does not decide on the financial parameters, which are the exclusive competence of the Nuclear Supplies Commission. I would like to point out that, as far as nuclear provisioning is concerned, comparison is not right. Each country has its own nuclear system and structure. At the end of 2016, a study by Standard & Poor's showed the gross discount rates used in Europe at the end of 2014 for countries comparable to the Belgian situation, which ranged between 4 and 4.8%: EDF: 4.6%; E.On: 4.7%; RWE: 4.6%; EnBW: 4.8%; ENGIE: 4.8%; Vattenfall: 4%. At 3.5%, Belgium imposes one of the lowest discount rates on its nuclear operators. To date, I have not received any opposition from the nuclear supply company against the opinion of the Nuclear Supplies Commission.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-10-54-commissie-ic557x.u61	At this point, you point out that you have no longer acted in dispute with the amounts. Is there a time limit for these challenges? Today is good, but is it the final amount or can the figures still move?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-10-54-commissie-ic557x.u62	I can't answer you now. I'm going to consult the law and I'll answer you later.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-10-54-commissie-ic557x.u63	Thank you for that. Secondly, my first question was how, three years ago, had the NPC president already suggested that the rate was too high? Indeed, it is easy to say, three years later, that the rate was too high at the time. He was already there, and it was already the same commission. Someone could have said it was too high. He says it in an interview three years later. It's special. How has this been communicated to the supervisory authority? I don't have any information about that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-10-54-commissie-ic557x.u64	I would like to say this: I note that now the Committee on Nuclear Supplies has the right to review the discount rate when circumstances change. It's still a good step forward.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-10-54-commissie-ic557x.u65	I agree with you. Not only did they reduce the rates, which they increased from 3.8 to 4.5 in increments, as you recalled, but in addition, they self-opposed (which is legally doubtful) the possibility of revising them even more strongly, depending on the evolution of the rates, which seems to me absolutely necessary in view of the figures that I was able to transmit in the Cantillon study. We'll see if it's contested or not. I hear your comments on situations in other countries. Compared to Bianca, your vigilance seems great, but we need to take action. A round table was held in 2011 and was already dealing with these issues. It concluded, inter alia, by inviting the government (already at the time but it did not do so) to put in place measures to maintain a responsibility over the owner, which had become historical, in case Bianca or something similar occurred. And now we have your vigilance. You said that a few months ago. What I am asking for is measures to ensure that it is legally framed before it is too late, before the company is sold, if any. We are not sure that they will complete the operation, you recalled it and that was said again in the last quarter. There is something going on here, and I can only invite you on this aspect of your response, to translate your vigilance into a certain legislative framework because you, like me, are aware of the amounts that are potentially at stake. We're going to find several billion euros. Here, in three years, EUR 1.7 or 1.8 billion must be provided. Moreover, if this had already been achieved, it would have been the responsibility of the State and not the historical responsibility of Engie, who would have already taken over his balls. Bianca is not yet realized. It can be estimated that via Synatom, they will finance this 1.7 or 1.8 billion. I have two more elements. Firstly, with regard to the postponement of the dismantling, you are referring to Mr Jambon. But be careful: this is not about security or safety. It is simply a possibility to postpone the moment of dismantling, not because there is a safety or security problem but because it is a choice of the operator. So much, sometimes, I was bothered because I was bent from one side to the other, so much here I feel like it's really in your skills. This is not a question of security or safety.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-10-54-commissie-ic557x.u66	This royal decree carries security measures and therefore it is not in my jurisdiction a priori.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-10-54-commissie-ic557x.u67	I haven't questioned him yet. I will, but a priori, admit that this may be part of a safety and security order, but it is not a safety or security measure. This is a measure of giving the operator a greater choice at the time of dismantling. I still have one point that I think remains problematic. It is this confidentiality which, in my view, is artificially created, reinforced and maintained around the position of the CPN. That's not right. We are not in security and safety measures with terrorist or other risks. We are on issues of security of the state budget and the contribution of citizens. Therefore, I believe that on this aspect, you need to be more transparent and that the elements that are requested, beyond the figures, must also be disseminated. Otherwise, everything becomes confidential in nuclear power. Everything becomes "secret defense." This is not a defence secret. These are issues related to the financing of nuclear waste management for hundreds of years; thousands of years, even. Their half-life can be up to 240,000 years. You are not in a position today to make transparency on this. It's a real problem. I ask you to change your attitude and forward the report to us.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-10-54-commissie-ic557x.u68	Madam Minister, an additional 1.7 billion is due. If I understand correctly, at this stage, it is not disputed by the producers. They will normally pay that amount. We will come back to see if there is indeed any dispute, since this is the state budget.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-10-54-commissie-ic557x.u69	[[...]] [[Without microphone]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-10-54-commissie-ic557x.u70	Unless the deadline is exceeded. In this case, there is no longer any possibility of contestation, which I hope.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-10-54-commissie-ic557x.u71	I would be surprised if such short deadlines had been foreseen in these matters.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-10-54-commissie-ic557x.u72	I don't think so. We're going to look at the law.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-10-54-commissie-ic557x.u73	In my view, they already had to put it in their 2016 accounts in the closing of December 31 for the 2016 part.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-10-54-commissie-ic557x.u74	We are going to check the law, Madam Minister, and perhaps come back to this important issue for the state budget, as Mr. Nollet said.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-10-54-commissie-ic557x.u75	Madam President, Minister, what is the current depth of the reference project(s) used by ONDRAF to estimate the cost of installing the radioactive waste landfill project B and C? Are you going to set a minimum depth? What is the minimum depth imposed on the Netherlands? How deep is the French project CIGEO located? Which country is planning or operating a landfill for Type B and Type C radioactive waste at a depth of less than 250 metres?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-10-54-commissie-ic557x.u76	Madam President, pending a national policy for the long-term management of Category B and C waste, ONDRAF is currently considering a depth of about 200 metres to estimate the reference cost of a geological storage facility. Regulations in Belgium and the Netherlands on the nuclear safety of a geological storage facility do not provide for a minimum depth for geological storage facilities. France will store its nuclear waste in underground facilities about 500 metres deep. In the majority of countries, studies on optimising the geological storage of radioactive waste are still under way. In some countries, regulations provide for a minimum depth of 200 metres. This is particularly the case in France. In the United Kingdom, the regulations do not provide for a minimum depth, but a subsidiary of the Nuclear Decommissioning Authority, the sister organisation of ONDRAF in the United Kingdom, has just published a report on the new siting process and will provide a range of between 200 metres and 1,000 metres deep. In other countries, such as Sweden and Finland, geological storage for Category B radioactive waste is in operation at a depth of between 50 and 120 metres.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-10-54-commissie-ic557x.u77	Mr President, the latest figures are for Category B. In Belgium, we are in a common project: categories B and C. This is obviously different from the latest figures that have been cited.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-10-54-commissie-ic557x.u78	This is just my last sentence.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-10-54-commissie-ic557x.u79	I'll write it down. But I'm surprised what you're saying about the Netherlands. According to my information, in the Netherlands there is also a criterion of 500 meters. The levels in France and the Netherlands are similar. In Belgium, on the other hand, it is 200 metres away, provided that this project, which is only a reference project for estimating the cost since there is not yet a national policy. However, it is known that the cost increases with depth. According to the rule mentioned, the cost increases with the square of the depth. That is, if the provisions mentioned earlier could explode if the depth of 200 metres, which is used for calculations, is not the depth that would be taken up in the waste plan for safety reasons. In my opinion, 200 meters is far from enough. In view of the studies and achievements carried out elsewhere, this is largely insufficient. I can only invite you to take advantage of the delay offered by the postponement of decisions on the landfill of waste B and C in Belgium to give all the guarantees of safety. It is necessary to go much lower than the 200 metres, which do not respect the references and criteria of what is done in most neighbouring countries. I have quoted two of them: France and the Netherlands. For Germany, I do not have figures and for Luxembourg, there are none because they work with us.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-10-54-commissie-ic557x.u80	I would like to take this opportunity to wish my best wishes to the Minister, to Mr Nollet and to the people here. Ladies and gentlemen, in your titles and qualities, including behind the windows, receive my best wishes for 2017. I was unable to participate at the beginning of this committee. Madam Minister, I apologize. Since the government has put in other very important projects in Social Affairs, I am also an effective member of this committee, and I have been obliged to make a difficult choice this afternoon. I would like to thank Mrs Lalieux, who has already left us, for replacing me, certainly advantageously, to chair this committee. I'd love to join you. I also did not want to leave you alone with Mr Nollet; that would not have been very good for the rest of our work.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-10-54-commissie-ic557x.u81	But Mr. President, it's going well with Mr. Nollet when I'm alone with him.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-10-54-commissie-ic557x.u82	I'm glad to hear that. I'll take note of that. I'll tweet about it later.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-10-54-commissie-ic557x.u83	Don't add any more.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-10-54-commissie-ic557x.u84	Sometimes there are amazing rapprochements. We've seen some in plenary, too. But life is like this. Mr Nollet, we have about nine questions left. How long are you here, minister? I'm coming in like a hair in the soup.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-10-54-commissie-ic557x.u85	Mr. Chairman, I really need to leave by 5:00 p.m. at the latest.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-10-54-commissie-ic557x.u86	Mr Nollet, are we still strict about timing or do you have one or two questions that are turned into written questions?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-10-54-commissie-ic557x.u87	Mr President, if you don't wish too long, I'll handle it.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-10-54-commissie-ic557x.u88	I'm done! If you're not too long, you'll be fine. In general, you are longer than I am, in any case in this committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-10-54-commissie-ic557x.u89	Mr President, I will complete your wishes. Indeed, you have omitted some people who are not behind windows, but who are regularly with us; they are more specifically the public. Minister, the Nuclear Supplies Commission has just handed over its decision on the amount of provisions needed to cover the cost of dismantling and managing nuclear waste. In this context, the NPC had to take into account an updated assessment of the cost of the facility and management of a Category B&C landfill. My question is, on the one hand, to verify that, in this context, the lessons of the WIPP accident have been taken into account and, above all, taken into account in the updated assessment of the cost of the landfill project and, on the other hand, to know the amount of the additional cost compared to the pre-WIPP accident assessment, which I am not going to develop again here.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-10-54-commissie-ic557x.u90	Mr. Chair, Mr.Member, as I indicated last year, the two incidents at the WIPP in February 2014 are still the subject of several international analyses. Based on the information available, it has been found that the feedback from these two events underlines the need to maintain a strong nuclear safety culture by paying particular attention to the criteria for waste acceptance, the prevention of fires in the basement and the ventilation of storage. As a result of these incidents, ONDRAF has not changed its geological storage studies, as these issues are already the subject of studies related to the operational security of storage in Belgium.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-10-54-commissie-ic557x.u91	Minister, I cannot understand, when it is said that lessons need to be learned from this fire, involving changes in the design and implementation of the project, that this does not affect the cost assessment by ONDRAF. I have a real problem with that. In order to avoid the recurrence of inconveniences that we have experienced with other institutions working in the nuclear sector, the ONDRAF must recover and take into account the real costs. Otherwise, it is the citizen who, some day or another, will pay the bill. We know that this involves changes, particularly in the ventilation system to take only this example, which is not integrated into the assessment of new costs. But it only takes place every X time. That's one more problem for me.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-10-54-commissie-ic557x.u92	Mr. Chair, Madam Minister, in its statement on the Waste Plan for the Long-Term Management of Radioactive Waste B&C, ONDRAF had to recognize that there was a huge stake in protecting aquifer resources from its project of burial in Boom clay. On page 19 of this statement, which dates back to 2011, ONDRAF announces that several studies are and will be devoted to it. Minister, what is the list of studies that were already devoted to it at the time? What are the main results? The simplest thing would be to give me a copy of it. What is the list of studies since 2011? When were they initiated? What are the main results? The simplest thing here, too, would be to give me a copy of it. What is the list of studies that still need to be carried out? What are the dates for publication of their results?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-10-54-commissie-ic557x.u93	Mr President, Mr Nollet, I will send you by e-mail an impressive list of the titles that have been produced. Numerous studies were carried out by ONDRAF before 2011, the date of the Waste Plan. ONDRAF is at your disposal if you wish to consult the 23 reports on these studies. Since 2011, ONDRAF has continued to study this issue. It is at your disposal if you wish to consult the 13 reports on these studies. For the subsequent period, when geological storage becomes the national policy for the long-term management of B&C radioactive waste, the selection of the site of the storage facility will have to take into account, among other things, its possible impact on the surrounding aquifers. It is therefore, for the time being, somewhat premature to give precise dates of publication.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-10-54-commissie-ic557x.u94	Minister, I will read the list of reports and contact ONDRAF to be able to consult and have a copy of these studies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-10-54-commissie-ic557x.u95	Mr President, on November 7, Minister Peeters asked ONDRAF to review before the end of the year the draft royal decree including their proposal for the management of B&C nuclear waste. According to the newspaper Le Soir of 17 December, management had prepared a proposal for a response, which was rejected by the board of directors. Minister, what was the content of this proposal? Why did the board refuse it? What response did you finally receive from ONDRAF? What reaction, response or reply are you preparing or sending back? What is the next step, given that the ONDRAF Board of Directors is no longer meeting until next March, when your deadline was set at the end of December 2016? What is your schedule of work on this important topic?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-10-54-commissie-ic557x.u96	Mr President, Mr Nollet, in the letter we sent to ONDRAF, my colleague Kris Peeters and myself, it was essentially requested to draw up a proposal for a national policy for B&C waste whose scope is limited to the principle of geological storage, in order to move forward step by step – as I had already explained to you in a previous debate – and to propose adequate programming of the decision-making stages with the aim of finding a sufficient societal basis. Indeed, as we have seen in the previous point, as soon as the place has been determined, it will require sufficient social acceptance to implement the decision. The content of the proposal that ONDRAF submitted to its Board of Directors was consistent with our request. I have not yet had a return from ONDRAF or received the specific conclusions of the Board of Directors on this matter. As soon as this response is available, Minister Peeters and I will take the time to analyze them to consider the next steps. With regard to the schedule of work, the Government Agreement provides for decision-making on the national B&C waste policy during this legislature. As you will easily understand, such a decision obviously relates to a period exceeding the duration of a legislature and engages the country for years or even decades. That is why, as I have already indicated, and I will repeat again, we cannot take a decision lightly. Unless I'm wrong, our mail was relatively long – I have it in front of me, but I don't have time to go through it – and I don't think we've given the ONDRAF a running deadline until the end of 2016 to respond. Rather, I believe that by means of retroacts, we have encouraged this body to move forward in stages and to take a decision in principle to continue the decision-making process.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-10-54-commissie-ic557x.u97	Madam Minister, there is one point on which I fully agree with you, and I believe I have already said so in the discussion on the policy note. On this issue in particular, you will need time to make a decision that will lead us – it looks huge – for more than 240,000 years, even if my colleagues are surprised at such a deadline. It must be understood that the choice that will be made will involve generations as never before. It is even difficult to imagine as a prospect, but it is so in the context of nuclear waste. This goes beyond the extension of nuclear power or not. The question really is where waste is being placed for civilizations. I often use this expression: the Egyptians bequeathed pyramids to future generations; we will bequeath our most dangerous waste, but we will hide it! This is for anecdote, although I really invite you, minister, not to put the plough before the ox. Your line, for now, seems to be going in that direction. I would like to stress this positively. However, since you have the mail in front of you, I can invite you to go to the fourth paragraph before the end where you say: To take the necessary steps before the end of this year to bring your proposal of 2 June 2015 into line. For me, "voor het einde van dit jaar", that meant before the end of 2016, since you sent your mail in 2016. It's a detail. This is not fundamental. I don't blame you for exceeding the deadline. On the contrary, I am telling you to take the necessary time. In this case, the project that ONDRAF has put back, which I have in my possession, poses a real problem because it burns the stages. It does not respect the preliminary studies necessary to be able to say that one or another option must be taken. The ONDRAF remained focused on a choice that was made in 2011 without integrating the developments that have taken place since then. I therefore absolutely must support you in this matter and say that you are not in a position to decide today because the ONDRAF has not answered you correctly. If management follows you, the board of directors that met on December 16, 2016, it did not follow management. This is paradoxical, especially since you have not received an answer either. Now, it's January 10, 2017. There were parties, but between December 16, 2016 and January 10, 2017, you should have received it. I also checked that the position was not on strike. This is becoming a real problem. This is not just the Board's position versus direction. What does this lack of response mean, when you imposed a time limit that I reminded you and there was a decision of the board of directors? You have a commissioner, a representative on the ONDRAF board of directors. So you can normally tell me what happened on this board of directors. We don't have one. We don't have any more. I am really surprised that today we are not able to go further, simply because we do not know the decision. This ping-pong game must stop. I consider that, in view of the decision that ONDRAF is trying to force when the preliminary studies are not carried out, you must today say: "Stop, we stop and make the only valid decision, that of continuing the studies before going further, in particular on the basis of the opinion of the Federal Nuclear Control Agency." You also refer to it in your mail. I have no concern in this regard. On the contrary, I am relying on your elements. As I have already pointed out in the past, according to AFCN, there is a problem with aquifers, there is a problem because you have not thoroughly checked all the alternatives. I can therefore only invite you to put an end to the ping-pong game and ask ONDRAF to have all the studies that have been carried out on the alternatives before taking any decision, including in principle, which is not the case today.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-10-54-commissie-ic557x.u98	Mr.President, Madam Minister, the newspaper L'Echo of November 24, 2016 refers to AFCN's doubts about the options taken by ONDRAF for the in-depth storage of the most radioactive B and C wastes. Do you confirm that the project currently envisaged as a hypothesis for the evaluation of costs by ONDRAF (i.e. storage in Boom clay at 220 meters depth) would be the least deep in the world as it is already decided for the projects envisaged? Do you also confirm that the number of accesses provided by ONDRAF is insufficient in the eyes of AFCN? What AFCN document is intended to address the number of accesses? What would be the budgetary impact of an increase in the number of accesses to the level desired by the AFCN? What is/are the scenario(s) and associated costs that have been proposed in this area (Waste Landfill Project B and C) by ONDRAF to the CPN as part of the recent re-evaluation of the necessary nuclear supplies? What conclusions, recommendations, wishes or requests have been expressed by the CPN in its December 12 decision? In the newspaper of 14 December, the president of the CPN recalled that his commission had "already drawn attention in 2013 to the lack of clarity of the scenario" adopted at the time. Can you assure us that all the clarity has been given in this regard in the context of the 2016 work, or has this issue again been postponed to the next report? There is always a lack of clarity on the scenario chosen. As for the reprocessing or non-reprocessing component, what are the scenarios proposed by Synatom on the one hand and, on the other hand, taken into account by the CPN in its recent opinion: direct or reprocessing evacuation, partial or total?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-10-54-commissie-ic557x.u99	Mr President, as I indicated in my answer to the oral question you have asked, which bears the number 15619 - so there are two or three questions - in some countries, such as France, the rules provide for a minimum depth of 200 metres for geological storage.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-10-54-commissie-ic557x.u100	But the project selected is 500.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-10-54-commissie-ic557x.u101	Yes. I'll take a look. That's right!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-10-54-commissie-ic557x.u102	The project chosen in France provides for a minimum of 200, but the minimum chosen is 500.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-10-54-commissie-ic557x.u103	That's right. So it's located about 500 m deep. The norm is such and so I compare them. In the United Kingdom, I told you what happened.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-10-54-commissie-ic557x.u104	My question was different. I wasn't talking about standards anymore, I was talking about plans. The project is 500 in France. You mentioned the norm sometimes.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-10-54-commissie-ic557x.u105	I agree. The Federal Nuclear Control Agency has not issued any specific guidelines and regulations regarding the number of wells to be stored. You know the rules on depth, so I'm not going back to that. An increase in the number of wells will inevitably increase the cost of the geological storage facility, but the increase will depend on regulatory requirements. At present, the ONDRAF baseline scenario is still based on geological storage at 220 metres depth in low-duration clay with three wells. Synatom proposed two scenarios to the Committee on Nuclear Supplies: a mixed scenario combining partial reprocessing of irradiated fuels and direct evacuation of other elements, and a scenario for direct disposal of all irradiated fuels. The Committee on Nuclear Supplies has chosen the mixed scenario as the basis for provisioning, because this scenario is the most conservative.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-10-54-commissie-ic557x.u106	This is the first element of my reaction. I'm surprised when you say that the Federal Agency has never responded to the number of accesses. For now, it's three, this information is known. But I read: "He fears, in particular, that the depth is not sufficient, nor the number of accesses planned to the galleries." This can be found in the newspaper L'Echo of December 14, 2016, on page 16. I'm not saying it.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-10-54-commissie-ic557x.u107	"He" is Jan Bens. Is it in quotation marks or is the reporter talking?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-10-54-commissie-ic557x.u108	According to the newspaper, it's the Federal Nuclear Control Agency. I don't know if it's Bens or not, but it's the Agency.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-10-54-commissie-ic557x.u109	It's not contradictory. The only person who can answer the press is Jan Bens. So, "he" is him. It is not contradictory to the fact that the PSAN has not issued any specific guidelines or regulations. This does not mean that she is not going to do so and that does not mean that she has no fears. We need to dig a little more.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-10-54-commissie-ic557x.u110	Minister, you see, at the turn of this question on the number of wells, that there are still many questions. That is one of the arguments to say that we are not in a position to decide today. On the other hand, the cost is not well assessed. The hypothesis is minimalist, 200 meters and three wells. It is well known that there is a need to go deeper and that more wells will be required, even if this is not included in the recommendations already published. I am concerned because any new elements to be taken into account relate to additional costs. Whether it's the WIP project, whether it's the depth, whether it's the number of wells, it's not enough. What's more, they work exclusively on Boom clay. In your November 7 letter, you say you have to work on all assumptions, including other forms of management than landfilling. I'll press you on that. The consequence of all this is that there is a problem in the current state of the assessment of the cost of the waste management component B and C. I find that the hypothesis currently used is quite far-fetched. We are at 3.2 billion euros, while the most realistic scenarios speak of 6 to 9 billion. If I understood your answer correctly, you're telling me that we stayed on the $3 billion valuation.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-10-54-commissie-ic557x.u111	I didn't give any numbers.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-10-54-commissie-ic557x.u112	No, but you said we kept the previous assessment. However, the previous estimate is EUR 3.2 billion. My question was what were the scenarios and associated costs for the landfill project and you're telling me that the previous scenario was retained.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-10-54-commissie-ic557x.u113	May I close the incident, Mr. Nollet?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-10-54-commissie-ic557x.u114	Mr President, I'm just asking for confirmation.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-10-54-commissie-ic557x.u115	While the minister is looking for the necessary documents, let me say to you, ladies and gentlemen, that I see that the beginning of the year begins in a serene atmosphere, which I would like to congratulate you on. Hope it lasts! In order not to unnecessarily prolong the debate, perhaps you could forward the reply to Mr Nollet, Minister?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-10-54-commissie-ic557x.u116	Mr President, Mr Nollet, I said that an increase in the number of wells would inevitably increase the cost of the geological storage facility, but that the increase would depend on the regulatory requirements. This must therefore be included in another response.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-10-54-commissie-ic557x.u117	I shall return, if necessary, to the matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-10-54-commissie-ic557x.u118	I think it's better.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-10-54-commissie-ic557x.u119	You will have understood – I have never hidden it – that if last year we talked about nuclear production (extension, etc.).This year we'll talk about waste management, it's normal, it's a matter of timing. You have already addressed this in your policy note. In our discussion in committee on your 2017 policy note, you said that you insisted with ONDRAF and AFCN that they lead to a common vision on the difficult issue of nuclear waste, an initiative that I agree with. Can you tell me what the differences are and how the discussions between these two institutions have evolved since the beginning of December? Can you confirm that it is the ONDRAF that aligns itself with the requirements of the AFCN and not the other way around?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-10-54-commissie-ic557x.u120	Mr Nollet, as stated in the Energy Policy Note on the National Waste Policy Decision B and C, Minister Peeters and I are waiting for ONDRAF to adequately interact with AFCN, each entity in accordance with its jurisdiction. It's important to remind him. It is not that, despite the intentions that you make and that I can join and vice versa, we ignored the legal requirements that set up the functioning of each entity that is independent. I recalled earlier on a question you asked me about the Committee on Nuclear Supplies. All these bodies must be able to have the necessary independence. The statement I made in the debate on the presentation of the Energy policy note did not necessarily mean that there were strong differences or even slight differences. As we expressed our wish in our letter – you have seen that things have changed – Elia and CREG must work together while remaining independent each in their competence. This was therefore a general statement which did not refer to specific points. Moreover, consultation does not mean divergence. Each of these organizations must at one point be able to deliver to the other the necessary elements that will shape the serene decision on the basis of which the government can take the appropriate direction. You support me in this process, and I thank you for that, that we cannot commit ourselves lightly. You really have to be clear. During our discussions, I asked about the decisions taken by the ONDRAF Board of Directors. In fact, in the course of this legislature, it has happened that what I was told about a board of directors was not necessarily reflected in the document issued by the board of directors. I always prefer that we commit to writing. That is what I am asking for at the end of this board of directors, so that I can analyse it with my colleague.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-10-54-commissie-ic557x.u121	I suppose you'll give us that. We had received the mail; I suppose we will have the reply to the mail too to see how we can continue. I am surprised that the answer has not yet come to you when the AC took place on December 16. But you just made a reminder to get the written answer. I think that's the least I can do. When you mentioned differences in committee, I did not bring this issue. You're the one who mentioned it.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-10-54-commissie-ic557x.u122	I didn't say that like that. I read again: "The minister, like the members of the committee, awaits the report of the competent bodies. She prefers that technicians perform their duties properly so that the government can make the most appropriate decisions. In response to a further question from Mr. Nollet, the Minister stated that she insisted that ONDRAF and AFCN should lead to a common vision on this difficult issue. She said she was prepared to provide the members of the commission, with the Minister's agreement, with the mail."
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-10-54-commissie-ic557x.u123	We also received it.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-10-54-commissie-ic557x.u124	My feeling is that these bodies have not necessarily worked convergingly before. I would like it to go another way, as I was able to ask, I have just reminded you, Elia and the CREG. You'll remember that I really wanted to have a job...
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-10-54-commissie-ic557x.u125	I just wanted to see what led you to make the observation that the AFCN and ONDRAF, in this case, have not yet had a convergent vision. I can only share your intention to push them to have a convergent vision, respecting their respective competencies. But I don't have an answer about what prompted you to send back this little, friendly signal.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-10-54-commissie-ic557x.u126	Everyone's turning the ball back.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-10-54-commissie-ic557x.u127	That's what I thought, too.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-10-54-commissie-ic557x.u128	At one point, the government must be able to rely on the competence of these independent bodies to take an important direction for the coming years, and as you have pointed out, for several decades to come.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-10-54-commissie-ic557x.u129	I understand better. But I rely on the opinion of the AFCN of 2011: when AFCN says "not all the measures have been carried out, not all the preliminary studies have been carried out to verify that the position proposed by ONDRAF to the government is the most secure and safest measure in terms of nuclear safety. I think the AFCN is clearly within its competence. On this point, ONDRAF must align itself with the position of the AFCN.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-10-54-commissie-ic557x.u130	I await the record of the decision of the Board of Directors.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-10-54-commissie-ic557x.u131	I was afraid that we would be in reverse and that it would actually be AFCN that would have to reconsider its position and say, "All in all, we were too hard in 2011." What I don't think. Asking for studies for decisions of such importance, I think it's normal.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-10-54-commissie-ic557x.u132	Mr. Chair, the minister committed herself to providing us with a copy.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-10-54-commissie-ic557x.u133	There she is!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-10-54-commissie-ic557x.u134	I thank him already!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-10-54-commissie-ic557x.u135	I congratulate you on both sides for the brevity of the question and the answer!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-10-54-commissie-ic557x.u136	Mr President, Madam Minister, in the debate on the allocation contribution, we have come back to the fulfilment of the commitments made by Electrabel, ENGIE and EDF in relation to pending appeals relating to previous allocation contributions. You promised to send us a copy of the written commitments made by each of the operators in this matter, so that we could be aware of any conditions that were issued by the operators. I would therefore like you to give us a copy of these documents and to be able to inform us fully about any conditions that have been issued by EDF, on the one hand, and by Electrabel and ENGIE, on the other.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-10-54-commissie-ic557x.u137	Mr President, Mr Nollet, at the outset, the question was mainly about EDF. I had therefore prepared the response for EDF, but it is obviously expanding, given the entry into force of the Convention, to Electrabel. We received, a few minutes ago, at 4:24 p.m., from what I see here, the letter from Electrabel that we will send you because I have not yet had the opportunity to read it. I would like them to have decided on all the elements that the Doel 1 and Doel 2 extension agreement, in its Article 6, provides in terms of abandonment of appeal, to see if everything has been observed, since each of the parties must fulfil its obligations. As far as EDF is concerned, you will recall that, in the course of the sitting where you asked me about a hundred questions concerning the debate on the fee, as a counterpart to the extension of Doel 1 and Doel 2, I had already sent you EDF's letters of December 2015 containing withdrawals of appeal. I was therefore surprised that Mr de Lamotte, who had been the first to intervene in that regard, would once again return to the subject. I would like to convey to you again these letters from EDF Belgium and EDF Luminus which, at the time, predicted, as we had imagined, that the law would be passed earlier. Therefore, in the meantime, since the law was not passed as soon as planned, there was an appeal against the 2015 allocation contribution in the head of EDF Belgium and EDF Luminus. There was still one case brought against the allocation contribution 2008 to 2014 which should also be abandoned, as well as a pending appeal before the Constitutional Court against the law of 19 December 2014 establishing the allocation contribution 2014. For Electrabel, it's almost the same thing. Reread the convention, you'll see. On Friday, January 6, 2017, I received the waivers from EDF Belgium and EDF Luminus of all these pending and newly introduced remedies – as I explained to you at the moment – in view of the entry into force of the Convention, given the vote on the law on the allocation contribution on December 22nd and its publication on December 29th in the Belgian Moniteur. I have here all these documents that I can send you by e-mail, which I will of course supplement with the letter received from Electrabel. Each time, it is necessarily letters from law firms that defend or, more precisely, have finished defending EDF Belgium and EDF Luminus as well as Electrabel before the courts. I would like to say that this is a complementary situation which has been completed, which is still good news.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-10-54-commissie-ic557x.u138	Madam Minister, we would just have to do something for it to be completely closed, and that is to send us, as you said, all the exhibits.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-10-54-commissie-ic557x.u139	I'll do it.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-10-54-commissie-ic557x.u140	It's quite voluminous because there's EDF Belgium, EDF Luminus, Electrabel and, I suppose, ENGIE.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-10-54-commissie-ic557x.u141	We're gonna watch because I haven't read yet.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-10-54-commissie-ic557x.u142	It's Electrabel SA.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-10-54-commissie-ic557x.u143	Oh, yes, they're enlisting on his behalf. Can you then, Madam Minister, e-mail us what you have received, as we are now used to in addition to our questions?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-10-54-commissie-ic557x.u144	Mr President, Madam Minister, the international experts who participated in the Peer Review of the comparative study of nuclear fuel management strategies sent you a letter dated 3 November 2014 asking you, among other things, to submit the study carried out to Parliament for evaluation; to entrust the National Programme Committee with the task of extending the consultation on options for the nuclear fuel cycle in Belgium; to organise the dialogue with civil society in this regard in collaboration with an independent organisation. On this point, experts pointed out that an interdisciplinary conference with the participation of civil society, and a public forum with the participation of a representative selection of citizens, could provide avenues for shaping this participatory process. Experts suggested that the King Baudouin Foundation should be asked to do so, more than two years after this letter! I would like to know what specific follow-up you have given to each of these three requests.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-10-54-commissie-ic557x.u145	Member of Parliament, since 2012, the Directorate-General for Energy has been working on a forward-looking and informative study on the management of irradiated fuels. Split into two volumes, the study pursues the objective of identifying strategies for the management of spent nuclear fuel from possible power reactors for Belgium. The first volume provides an overview of the changing context and legislative framework that governs the management of the nuclear fuel cycle in our country. It includes the technical aspects necessary to understand the problem of radioactive waste management and allows the reader to better understand the implications of this problem. The second volume proposes a preliminary analysis of possible radioactive waste management strategies for Belgium. It is not limited to the two options mentioned in the 1998 Council of Ministers Decision. A total of six different strategies were identified and studied. The study was submitted to a committee of national and international experts. I would like to point out that this committee has been able to work independently and in good intelligence with my administration. As regards the content and direction of the study, the Committee found it appropriate to extend two to six options for the nuclear fuel cycle in Belgium. He also expressed appreciation for the breadth and depth of the analyses. The Committee concluded that, in its final formula, this study can serve as a reference and provide a solid basis for a future decision-making process on the management of the nuclear fuel of Belgian power reactors. This voluminous study then had to be translated into both national languages and was finalized in early 2016, having been given priority in 2015 to the preparation of the first national programme for the management of spent fuel and radioactive waste, which we spoke about a great deal earlier. The final version of the study was transmitted to me in May 2016 with the letter from the experts, which dates from 3 November 2014. I discovered this letter when I received the study on 23 May 2016, since the letter from DG Energy (November 2014) was annexed to it. That's how it happened! As regards the follow-up carried out so far in relation to the final version, the study was presented in the second half of 2016 to my firm, which analysed it. I asked my administration to prepare an erratum, in order to correct some ad hoc errors (shells, phrase formulation, etc.). In addition, recognizing the quality and importance of this study, I requested that it be published as soon as possible on the FPS Economy website, which should be done before the end of January 2017. I have asked my administration to prepare an update of this study by the end of November 2017, so as to reflect the situation as at 31 December 2016, on the one hand, and, on the other hand, to take into account the evolution of the Belgian context, namely the postponement of the deactivation dates of Tihange 1, Doel 1 and 2. If Synatom wished to resume the reprocessing of spent fuel from the nuclear power plants operated by Electrabel, it would have to submit the new reprocessing contract to the formal agreement of the government. To date, the government has not received any requests on the subject from Synatom.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-10-54-commissie-ic557x.u146	I hear what you're saying about the date, although it's a bit specific: May 23, 2016 rather than November 3, 2014. I had access to these documents, but not by a hijacked route. Actually, they're already available. I don't know if I got the post-correction version, or the one before the few erratas.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-10-54-commissie-ic557x.u147	I don't know that! You'll look! We'll tell you!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-10-54-commissie-ic557x.u148	So I can compare. Still, I've read about this mail. Now, I note that I did not receive it in 2014, and I believe you absolutely, but in 2016. Nevertheless, you received it in May, and he asks you three things: firstly, to submit this study, together with the erratas, to Parliament. Do you agree or disagree with this?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-10-54-commissie-ic557x.u149	That's right!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-10-54-commissie-ic557x.u150	This concerns the work of the committee, but we will come back to it. Second, entrust the National Program Committee with the task of expanding consultation on site options. Are you okay or not?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-10-54-commissie-ic557x.u151	I have to ask my collaborators the question. We discussed it in the second half of 2016, during which I did a lot of things, and I no longer have that in mind.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-10-54-commissie-ic557x.u152	I do not improvise this request; it was in my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-10-54-commissie-ic557x.u153	That's right!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-10-54-commissie-ic557x.u154	And for the third point, when you resume the question with your collaborators, also check the idea of dialogue with civil society, via the King Baudouin Foundation. For reading these two volumes, the choice of going from two to six options is not nothing.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-10-54-commissie-ic557x.u155	No, actually!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-10-54-commissie-ic557x.u156	The choice of landfill or not of waste and the model for landfilling were discussed earlier, but if one is part of a whole new option for fuel management, it necessarily challenges the choice of landfill, the type of landfill, the space available, and the cubic metres required for waste C, in this case. These choices are quite different in either option. For now, we are working with two options. If we work with six options, it still changes everything. Be careful, therefore, when deciding on the choice of landfill, in connection with the fact that you have fallen behind. I repeat, I don't blame you. As I will point out in the report, you have been late on this 2014 study for the reasons you have explained. When we know how to manage the waste, whether partially reprocessed or totally, or one of the other four options, it has an impact, of course, on the choice of landfill or not, once they are retired, or depending on whether another option has been chosen. And it also has an impact on costs. So don't be too quick in your decision-making on the rest, whereas in this case we're only going to initiate the dialogue process, since you're talking about consulting with your collaborators on the site option and the debate in parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-10-54-commissie-ic557x.u157	I believe that, as a first step, the publication erga omnes, i.e. valid for everyone, through the site of my administration in DG Energy, is fundamental. This will result in reactions that we will evaluate.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-10-54-commissie-ic557x.u158	Especially since you are asking for an update for November!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-10-54-commissie-ic557x.u159	That's right!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-10-54-commissie-ic557x.u160	My message is that you don't do things backwards. Be consistent with what you have just said. A fortiori, the rest should follow.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-10-54-commissie-ic557x.u161	Mr President, Madam President, on 4 October last you informed me that to date, Electrabel had not communicated to you any increase in its nuclear production capacity at Doel 1 and 2. At the same time you indicated to me that you had asked Electrabel to keep you informed of developments in this file. My question is relatively brief: is there anything new in this case? In addition to a possible formal application, have there been any tests or other tests in this regard? I ask you this question because if there was no formal request, how do I explain the regular ads on the Elias website from a 430MW to 442MW?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-10-54-commissie-ic557x.u162	Mr President, honourable Member, to date, Electrabel has not notified me of any increase in its nuclear production capacity for the Doel 1 and Doel 2 plants. The net rated power of Doel 1 and Doel 2 is 433 MW. This net rated power shall be calculated under normalised conditions of outside temperature and pressure. It is a value that remains constant. The Elia site takes back the net power available per unit, which can vary depending on different external parameters such as the outside temperature. As efficiency, or in other words the efficiency of a production unit changes with the outside temperature and cold source temperature, the net available power of Doel 1 and Doel 2 can range from 430 MW to just over 440 MW. In general, the more cold it is, the higher the net available power of the unit. Variations in net available power occur in all steam-cycle, nuclear and non-nuclear power plants. To avoid any misunderstanding, I reiterate that these slight variations have nothing to do with any increase in the net nominal power of the plants, which is invariably 434 MW.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-10-54-commissie-ic557x.u163	These seasonal climatic variations, I do not know how to say, but in any case related to temperature, should they be announced on the Elias site? I thought it was the other information, the one related to nominal power, that had to be on Elia's site. But maybe I'm wrong.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-10-54-commissie-ic557x.u164	I'll ask the question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-10-54-commissie-ic557x.u165	It's from there that I was alerted. Otherwise, I couldn't have guessed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-10-54-commissie-ic557x.u166	Of course. It makes a little sense because Elia's on the supply side. Now, that's the power available. This power available at that time must be calculated as accurately as possible to know what is available, whereas the net rated power is the determination of the rated power of a unit as a gas-fired power plant has a rated power of X megawatts.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-10-54-commissie-ic557x.u167	Thank you very much. Mr. Nollet, a word from the end to close the session?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-10-54-commissie-ic557x.u168	I will read the various e-mails about the topics on which we are committed at the turn of the various questions and answers.
