ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-28-54-commissie-ic631x.u1	Mr President, Minister, the review of the consumer agreement entitled "Consumer in the liberalised electricity and gas market" was due to take place before the end of 2016. At the end of March 2017, the revision of this agreement has not yet taken place. I tabled a motion for a resolution on this in the Committee on the Economy in July 2016. Since then, we have been waiting for your opinion. This morning, when I opened my mailbox, I discovered a notice and I thought that I should file more inquiries, because it activates the steps! Mr Minister, as you have seen, the CREG has given a positive opinion on the motion for a resolution that I have tabled. I would like to have a supplementary opinion and to take stock with you of the work on the revision of this agreement. In the document you sent us this morning, you refer to the date of April 18th for the transmittal of documents. Mr President, can we therefore organise a meeting with the minister in this committee after 18 April? My second question concerns the protection of SMEs. They are also affected by this agreement. You seem to have some difficulty defining them. If you have read the opinion of the CREG, which has also been given on the motion for a resolution that I have tabled, you will see that it is looking into it. Have you and CREG been working together? When reading your note, we do not distinguish your proposal on dormant products. As a minister in charge of consumer protection, how will you actually stimulate consumers to switch energy suppliers? With regard to the issue of joint offer, I would like to know whether you have seen in the CREG opinion document the suggested options to prevent this proposal from damaging the rules in favour of energy consumers? What do you think? During the revision of the agreement, are you going to integrate developments in the electricity and gas supply sector in B to C and the development of services by suppliers? Will you require the signatories of this agreement to enforce it by their subcontractors mandated to sell gas and/or door-to-door electricity contracts? You or your collaborators may have been solicited by these home solicitors. The note sent this morning does not mention it. I would like to ask you again about this, also referred to by the CREG. Have you cooperated with consumer organizations? Finally, you do not reply explicitly with regard to the bill to transpose the electricity directive. You are telling us that this falls within the jurisdiction of Minister Marghem. Minister, what is the status of consultations with your colleague on this matter? I will ask you for more information after your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-28-54-commissie-ic631x.u2	Mr de Lamotte, since you are working too fast, you still have a lot of questions! I can already tell you that we have not yet discussed with CREG. So your suggestion is wise. I will ask my colleagues to hold a meeting with this body to discuss some of the points you have raised. I come to your other questions. By letter dated March 27, I provided a detailed response as to the status of the file. I hope to be able to close the consumer side soon. The drawing up of a code of conduct is obviously a voluntary act of the undertakings concerned. I have indeed insisted on better protection for small and medium-sized enterprises. Negotiations have begun on this issue. I will make every effort to ensure that the energy suppliers accept it. However, this is not at all obvious, because you have understood that a discussion at the moment was about the definition of the concept of "small and medium-sized enterprises". To outlaw tacit renewal would be an excessive measure, which could negatively affect consumers who do not enter into a new contract. It seems to me that the most vulnerable clients would be victims. A joint offer cannot constitute an unfair commercial practice. This is the legal rule. You know that very well. First of all, it is important for the consumer to be well informed of the conditions of the offer at the conclusion of the contract. The same applies to other products that suppliers offer for sale. It seems obvious to me that the commitments made by energy suppliers also apply when they involve third parties. Finally, the energy laws of 1965 and 1999 are part of the powers already mentioned by the Minister of Energy. It will, of course, be able to count on my support when preparing the necessary amendments to bring them into line with European directives. For the rest, Mr. President, it is up to you to organize the work. I am prepared to take part in the examination of Mr de Lamotte's proposals in this committee. But it is up to you, Mr President, to organise the work of this committee. For the rest, I will contact CREG and I hope that we will find a solution as quickly as possible, because it is a very important subject for all of us and especially for small and medium-sized enterprises. We have worked diligently to find a solution with all partners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-28-54-commissie-ic631x.u3	Minister, thank you for your answer. I note that you have started the machine and have established these contacts. Of course, it must not be as easy as one can imagine: one must sit the energy suppliers around the table and get their agreement. You are the Minister of Consumer Protection. I am counting on you in this dimension of consumer protection. You have understood well that, beyond the particular consumer, SMEs are very demanding in relation to this and in relation to the price of energy. You tell me you want to contact the CREG at my suggestion. I really invite you to do it. I think they have good proposals to make. They have also delivered an opinion on the motion for a resolution that I have introduced, an opinion on which I have tabled amendments to ensure that my proposal is on the road. I also think you should contact Test-Achats. Consumer protection agencies certainly have some ideas. I expect you to make progress, to be able to organize the work and to hear you surely after 18 April 2017 in relation to your contacts, as you mention it in the note, to try to have a clear vision of what you are proposing for the protection of the consumer, whether private or SME. Mr President, I still have three small requests. In your note, you refer to the report of the Economic Inspectorate. Could we have this document through the committee secretariat or is it available on a website? Could you also clarify the state of play in the negotiations on the redefinition of SMEs? Finally, do you already have a draft, a working document, a first, second or third draft on how you can talk about the consumer's agreement, the work, the proposals that are being made? As I am curious, I would like to know them and whether we can dispose of them. Thank you, Minister. But as any inquiry ends with a motion, I will table it for you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-28-54-commissie-ic631x.u4	It doesn't necessarily end with a motion, but it can. This is a common but not mandatory practice. I will therefore receive it and then make a comment on the organization of work.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-28-54-commissie-ic631x.u5	In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. A motion for recommendation was tabled by Mr. Michel de Lamotte and reads as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the inquiry of Mr Michel de Lamotte and the response of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Employment, Economy and Consumer Affairs, responsible for external trade, asks the federal government 1. to renegotiate the "Consumer in the liberalised electricity and gas market" Agreement so that this Agreement contains the following obligations: (a) include in a clear and transparent manner the following elements in any communication with the consumer: the start and end date of the contract, the name of the product contracted and the date of the product tariff sheet; this information shall be incorporated into a QR code to be applied on any communication to the consumer; (b) when sending the annual statement invoice, inform the consumer of all the conditions and prices offered by its electricity and gas supplier, as well as the situation of the customer's current contract in relation to that offer, so that he can make an informed choice of the product most suitable for his consumption; (c) prohibit the tacit renewal of the terms and prices of a gas and electricity supply contract if it is less advantageous than the terms and conditions offered by that supplier to new customers, i.e. the products (conditions and prices) actively proposed by the supplier in the energy market; therefore, there is no consideration here of any welcome discounts offered by suppliers to new customers; (d) charge the refund in proportion to the unused period of supply of the costs or allowances already invoiced; (e) require a separate billing for the provision of additional services to the supply of electricity and/or gas in order to clearly inform the consumer of the cost of such services; (f) ensure that Internet price comparators incorporate into their comparison tools the packages offered by the suppliers in order to enable the consumer to object to the proposed formulas; (g) To extend the Agreement to the SME sector as defined in the Electricity Act of 29 April 1999 and the Gas Act of 12 April 1965; (h) Expand the Agreement to include communities such as schools, nurseries, rest homes. i) require suppliers to enforce the agreement by their subcontractors mandated to sell gas and/or door-to-door electricity supply contracts. 2. to table a draft law in order to comply with the Electricity Directive (2009/72/EC) and the Gas Directive (2009/73/EC) and give force of law to the "Consumer in the liberalised electricity and gas market" Agreement. A motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr Michel de Lamotte and reads as follows: "The Chamber, heard the interplay of Mr Michel de Lamotte and the reply of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Employment, Economy and Consumers, responsible for Foreign Trade, asks the federal government 1. renegotiate the contract The consumer in the released electricity and gas market so that it includes the following obligations: (a) indicate clearly and transparently the following information in each communication to the consumer: the date of the beginning and end of the contract, the name of the product on which the contract is based, and the date of the tariff sheet of the product; such information shall be included in a QR code to be attached to each communication to the consumer; (b) when sending the invoice of the annual statement of account, inform the consumer of all the conditions and prices offered by his electricity and gas supplier and of the current contract of the customer concerned in relation to that offer so that the consumer can, with knowledge, choose the product that best corresponds to his consumption; (c) prohibit the tacit renewal of the terms and prices of an agreement for the supply of gas and electricity where that agreement is less favourable than the terms and conditions offered by that supplier to new customers; this concerns the products (conditions and prices) actively offered by the supplier on the energy market; consequently, no account shall be taken here of any welcome discounts proposed by suppliers to new customers; (d) impose an obligation to reimburse the costs or fees already charged in proportion to the unused delivery period; (e) impose separate invoicing for the provision of additional services on top of the supply of electricity and/or gas in order to clearly inform the consumer about the costs of those services; (f) ensure that on the internet price comparison sites the packages offered by suppliers also form part of the comparison tools so that the consumer can objectively compare the proposed formulas; (g) extend the agreement to the SMEs sector, as provided for in the Electricity Act of 29 April 1999 and the Gas Act of 12 April 1965; (h) extend the agreement to include collective provisions (schools, day-care centres and rest homes); (i) require suppliers who sign this agreement to also enforce it by their subcontractors authorised to sell at-home gas and/or electricity supply contracts; 2. submit a draft law to bring the situation into line with the Electricity Directive (2009/72/EC) and the Gas Directive (2009/73/EC) and to give force to the Agreement The consumer in the released electricity and gas market. A simple motion was tabled by Rita Gantois and Griet Smaers. A simple motion was tabled by the ladies Rita Gantois and Griet Smaers. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed. The motions will be voted on later. The meeting's over. Question No 15807 by Mrs Vanheste is transformed into a written question. Mrs. Fonck will be joining us later this afternoon. Mr Calomne, through his staff, indicated that he was in the Political Renewal Committee meeting and that he would join us if possible, depending on the time. I haven't heard from Mrs. Els Van Hoof. Question No 16287 by Mrs Van Cauter is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-28-54-commissie-ic631x.u6	As I have just said, Mr Calomne cannot, for the time being, be present.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-28-54-commissie-ic631x.u7	Minister, in addition to the legal guarantee rules in which you have recently positioned yourself, your policy note also referred to your desire to work on the fight against planned obsolescence. You have launched a number of actions, including an investigation that you initiated with your colleague Minister Marghem, whose results were expected by the end of March. In 2012, the European Union adopted a Directive on electronic equipment waste. It requires companies to avoid the manufacture of products that cannot be separated, and calls on Member States to take measures. According to a specialist in European law at UCL, at the end of 2015, no transposition into Belgian law would have been on the agenda. On the other hand, France has taken a step about which I have already had the opportunity to question you, a few months ago. Minister, do you confirm that no transposition of the 2012 European Directive into Belgian law has been carried out? If so, why this failure or why this choice? Do you intend to move forward in this context? Have you ever obtained the results of the survey conducted in collaboration with your colleague in charge of Environment and Sustainable Development? I think the results of the study were expected by the end of March. On the occasion of another question, you replied that it would be by the end of April. If there's a delay, why? What is your position on the French law that has been in force for almost two years? You said you want to stimulate companies to offer repairable products easier and longer. What is the situation in practice? Finally, have you been able to make progress on advertising the reasonable life of the products, which would be present on the packaging? I thank you already for your concrete answers to these concrete questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-28-54-commissie-ic631x.u8	Mrs Winckel, none of the European working groups in which my administration is involved is currently examining the problem of planned obsolescence. European work on eco-design of products is the responsibility of the Minister of the Environment. The proposal for a directive to review the provision applicable to the legal guarantee of conformity with regard to the sale of goods online does not specifically address planned obsolescence but could have an impact on this subject. Its consideration has not yet begun in the Council. Directive 2012/19 mainly concerns the collection and treatment of waste electrical and electronic equipment. An article concerns design for reuse and treatment. This directive therefore falls within the competence of regional and federal ministers of the environment. Among the solutions envisaged in the face of the planned obsolescence of the products, the options that will receive my preference will be those that will have the best impact and the lowest administrative burden. A study led by the SPF Economy, which is due to end at the end of April, will allow me to take appropriate action. The display of product life and repairability are measures that will be analyzed in this study. I can't predict the results of the study and just like you, I have to wait for them. Some measures are already being considered in relation to the objectives of promoting the circular economy. Several of the 21 measures in the Circular Economy Action Plan are already being implemented, as is the important study I have just mentioned. I am considering extending the period during which the defect that appears is presumed to exist at the time of delivery. Currently, this is six months. At the same time I want to strengthen the position of the retailer, who is responsible for the legal warranty of the manufacturer and / the importer of the property; these measures go hand in hand. At the point of contact, a scenario specific to the problem was created, in which consumers can report to the SPF Economy their possible suspicions of programmed product obsolescence. Only five cases were reported under this scenario. It's not much. In addition, I have introduced sanctions in the Code of Economic Law to combat planned obsolescence. These are mandatory analyses of products at the expense of manufacturers in the event of serious indications of misleading omissions as to the life of the products, as well as the possibility of withdrawing the products concerned from the market. The establishment of criteria for repairability is also integrated into the Circular Economy Action Plan to which my services are contributing and which has recently been the subject of a working group between Benelux partners. Minister Marghem is the lead on this issue. As far as French law is concerned, my administration is not aware of any convictions of manufacturers on the basis of this law, but we would be interested in obtaining the information you would have.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-28-54-commissie-ic631x.u9	Minister, thank you for your answer. It is true that five reports are little. One may wonder whether the service is well known to the public and whether there is no need to inform our fellow citizens. I hear you want to work also on the criterion of repairability. It has its meaning in the fight against programmed obsolescence. I'll follow you. But I come back to my initial question and really regret that we are not taking the leap by not transposing this European directive which, precisely, calls on companies to avoid the manufacture of products that cannot be repaired. I understand that it is the responsibility of federal and regional ministers of the environment, but with your hat as Minister of Consumer Protection, with everything you have announced in your policy note - the circular economy, the fight against planned obsolescence - without prejudging the results of the study, working on repairability is crucial. I am convinced of this, as well as several associations. It is also well known that there are many citizen groups that are emerging and are working precisely to be able to repair these different tools, machines, etc. I can only support you in these steps and encourage you to try to go beyond and not wait for what Environment Ministers could do in this area. I will allow myself to return to the subject when you have the results of the study.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-28-54-commissie-ic631x.u10	Mr Minister, Test-Achats offers consumers the opportunity to send complaints about a specific company to that company via its website. This is happening in low-threshold conditions. Test-Achats offers the necessary support and also signs the complaint in its own name, which of course makes for more impact. On the same website the complaint is then made public in order to exert more pressure on the company to solve the problem. Without any doubt, it is a good thing that consumers are given more power in a simple way to be right. The condition must be that he or she has actually been disadvantaged by the undertaking endorsed and that the undertaking concerned has not made sufficient efforts to remedy the damage suffered. However, according to the employers' organisation UNIZO, Test-Achats would not check the merits of the complaint in question in any way. It attaches its name to the complaint, even if the company would have the right on its side. It becomes quite problematic if that complaint also appears publicly on the website and can be found at the top of the search results in Google, even if the company concerned has already dealt with the complaint for a long time. A company can therefore deliver high-quality work and service for many years, but a single complaint can nullify this reputation. I don't think anyone can have anything against the initiative of Test Purchasing on their own. However, sufficient framework is required. Test-Achats should at least examine in advance whether or not the complaint is justified. When the published complaint has finally been dealt with and the consumer has achieved his or her goal, it cannot be the intention to keep the company's name to the digital shame forever. Mr. Secretary, are you aware of this method of Test Purchasing? What is your opinion on this? What steps can you take to find a golden middle course in which both the consumer and the company can agree?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-28-54-commissie-ic631x.u11	Mrs Gantois, as a result of your question, my cabinet asked UNIZO to clarify the matter further. Test Purchasing was then asked to provide explanations. A meeting in my cabinet with Test-Achats is scheduled for April 4th. I do not want to anticipate it, but I believe that all market actors, including Test Purchasing, can be expected to act in a proportionate and proportionate manner. When a problem is addressed through their channel and made public, it can be expected that they will also follow the further treatment. If there is a solution, I think it is only natural that it should be made visible on the website or that the complaint should be closed. I can't prohibit the procedure of Test-Achats. I must, of course, avoid intervening in a dispute between two parties or in the area of the right to freedom of expression, which everyone, including Test-Achats, has. Should it lead to further dispute, it is up to the judiciary to decide whether or not to abuse that right. There is therefore a meeting on 4 April. Let us hope that, with our intervention and through your question, things will be changed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-28-54-commissie-ic631x.u12	Thank you for your reply, Minister. I'll wait for the consultation and the outcome. In any case, I would like to thank you for your efforts.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-28-54-commissie-ic631x.u13	Mr President, Minister, after the United Kingdom referendum last year, you rightly took the initiative to set up a working group to look at the economic impact of a possible Brexit and to make recommendations from Belgium in order to prepare us for it as best as possible. My question dates back to 10 February. A preliminary report was presented at the beginning of February. It consists of three large parts. Firstly, an impact analysis of the Brexit on the Belgian economy, secondly, the views of the federations and finally recommendations to the government. I would like to ask you a few questions on the basis of that report and a number of them. First of all, the report mentions seven recommendations. Can the government agree to these recommendations? What steps will the government take to carry them out and honour them? Secondly, recommendation No. 4 states that Belgium has important assets in attracting foreign investment and must make this known by means of cooperation between all the authorities concerned. Will our country commit itself to, for example, bringing certain financial activities from the City, London, to us? Thirdly, have the work of the Brexit High Level Group been completed with the completion of the report? If not, what work does the government expect from the Brexit High Level Group and at what time? Will they continue to give advice in the coming months and years? Finally, the Brexit will have an impact on federal and regional or Community powers. However, it will be important for our country to speak with one voice. That was an important opinion from that report, an important recommendation. In addressing the possible recommendations of the report, powers are involved at regional and federal level, as well as powers that are cross-departmental. It is therefore in everyone's interest, and certainly in the interests of the various actors in the Brexit High Level Group.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Mr Minister, my question was actually addressed to the Prime Minister. I wanted to ask him whether he would effectively ensure coordination over the levels of competence and across the different departments. However, I have heard from the secretariat that you would answer this question. In other words, the question is actually addressed to the Prime Minister, but I would like to know what answer you will give and whether you think it is appropriate that the Prime Minister should take on a role in this matter in order to deal with it in a coordinated manner across the different levels of competence.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-28-54-commissie-ic631x.u14	Mr President, Mrs Smaers, the government has taken note of the seven recommendations and will take them into account in the decision-making process for the preparation of its position in the adoption of the EU-27 negotiating directives on the content and precise institutional arrangements. Some of the government's recommendations on attracting foreign investment, on European agencies, on preparing for the Brexit negotiations, and on redefining and deepening the European project are already being implemented. For the other recommendations we have to wait for the United Kingdom to notify Article 50. That will happen tomorrow. Just now, the nuclear cabinet has also taken steps that may be finalized on Friday, after tomorrow's activation of Article 50. We will agree on a number of additional guidelines and an approach. In cooperation with the Regions, which are responsible for promoting Belgium to potential foreign investors, and especially with the regulators involved, I can assure you that the government and our services actively but discreetly approach these companies, give the assets of our country and answer their questions efficiently. The report by the High Level Group, as well as the preparation of the dossier for the European Medicines Agency, have shown that our country does have assets. The finalisation of the report was an important milestone in the order of the Brexit High Level Group. The group will continue to monitor the situation in the coming years and will form a permanent forum for consultation between the government and the stakeholders present. Brexit negotiations are conducted at European level by the Commission and the Council. The consultation procedures in our country between all sections, in preparation for European positions, are also followed here by the DGE, the Directorate-General for European Affairs and Coordination. The ICBB, the Inter-Ministerial Conference on Foreign Policy, will also be involved. In the DGE, all sections of our country are represented. In the event of disagreement, the matter may be referred to the ICBB or, if necessary, to the Consultation Committee. In this way a Belgian position can be reached which will be defended at various relevant Councils. I therefore believe that the necessary preparations and arrangements have been made. As it now stands, Article 50 will be triggered by the United Kingdom tomorrow. Then we will take further steps and make agreements.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-28-54-commissie-ic631x.u15	Minister, I hope that, as you say, this will be followed up in the coming years and that the Brexit High Level Group will also advise. In particular, I hope that the government will take the whole piece of work with recommendations in a coordinated manner. I also assume that the discussion about the levels of competence, in consultation with the regions, will be addressed in the implementation of the topics that will have to be addressed inter-westly and inter-federally. I wish you good luck with it.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-28-54-commissie-ic631x.u16	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Maya Detiège's 16656 will be converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-28-54-commissie-ic631x.u17	Mr President, Mr Deputy Prime Minister, at the outset, I thought that my question, given the time between tabling and a possible answer, was no longer relevant at all, but, fortunately, that is clearly still the case. We know the enormous damage in terms of job losses caused and caused by the import of Chinese products at abnormally low prices, because they are produced with social and environmental dumping and heavily subsidized by the Chinese State. This is not the first time you've been asked about this. The situation is particularly critical in the steel sector, where China increased its production by 70% between 2010 and 2014 and is now facing a sharp decline in domestic demand. As a result, China is flooding the European market as well as other third markets (North Africa) that were opportunities for our European producers. As a result, 80 000 workers have lost their jobs in this sector in recent years, not only in Belgium of course. Faced with these completely unfair practices, which obviously do not meet our wage, social and environmental standards, European producers clearly need extremely severe anti-dumping measures to survive. In Europe, anti-dumping duties vary from 13 % to 75 % on Chinese products imported into the Union, which is without any common measure or proportion to what the US can impose, since some Chinese products may be subject to a 200% tax. Moreover, the decision-making process in the United States is much faster than that adopted by the European Union. The maintenance of trade defence instruments is vital for the European steel industry. In my region of Charleroi alone, it concerns the employment of more than a thousand workers still active, whether in Thy-Marcinelle where there are more than 1,000, in Aperam where they are several hundred and in Grosjean Steels. The European Commission's proposal on the new methodology for calculating anti-dumping measures, linked to the granting or not of market economy status in China, was therefore highly awaited. While the Commission's earlier statements allowed for some optimism, its proposals of 9 November last disappoint and raise many questions. The Commission no longer distinguishes market economies from non-market economies, which is already an issue for China, which does not meet the five European criteria for a market economy. For WTO countries, including China, it provides for a specific procedure against countries where there are significant market distortions or where the state has a profound influence on the economy. How will the Commission be able to demonstrate these distortions? In which sectors? Above all, if market distortions are proven, how will anti-dumping measures be calculated? Should we not fear that this method would prove to be less protective than the so-called "analogous country", which was used so far to calculate anti-dumping duties against a country that does not have a market economy (which is clearly the case with China)? Moreover, we are faced with the reversal of the burden of proof. This is of particular concern. It is now up to the Commission or the company concerned to establish evidence of dumping, whereas China is clearly not a market economy. Is the task not likely to be insurmountable, especially for SMEs, which have limited means and for which the current procedures for lodging a complaint against an act of dumping are already very cumbersome? In the coming weeks and months, the Council of European Ministers will have to take a position on this Commission proposal on 9 November. In addition, it adopted a common position last December on the proposal for a regulation on the reform of trade defence instruments. Here, too, there are substantive questions, Minister, particularly as regards the conditions under which the lesser duty rule will not be applied. Will these conditions not be too high, especially for raw materials? Could you tell us what Belgium's position will be in this case? In other words, will it accept the Commission's proposal? Are you going to propose the necessary changes so that thousands of Belgian jobs (both in Wallonia and Flanders) in the steel sector, but also possibly in textiles and photovoltaics, are not sacrificed to Chinese products produced through unacceptable forms of dumping and state aid? More generally, do you think that these two texts are sufficiently protective for European sectors of activity which are already suffering from dumping practices by foreign competitors?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-28-54-commissie-ic631x.u18	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to assure you that I am aware of the importance of the necessary reform of trade defence instruments. In particular, as a result of the overall overcapacity in production, particularly in China, I have undertaken various actions and interventions. The proposal of 9 November 2016 introduces a new method of calculating dumping and removes the list of countries that are not considered market economies. So we're not talking about the Market Economy Status of China anymore. In the future, the European Commission will prepare reports that will decide on the distortions affecting the markets of the exporting countries concerned. These reports should reflect anti-dumping and anti-subsidy complaints lodged with the European Commission. It can be expected that the steel sector and a country like China will be the subject of such reports. If distortions have been demonstrated, the European Commission will no longer have to apply the lesser duty rule. Higher anti-dumping duties than previously may be imposed without, however, exceeding the margin of dumping. Belgium supports this proposal. In all cases, the effectiveness of the measures will be ensured. According to the European Commission, the burden of proof will not be on European industry, but on itself. European companies will have to transmit certain data, as is already the case today. I have taken note of your concerns and can assure you that the same considerations have motivated our country in establishing the Belgian position. However, I draw your attention to the fact that the outcome of the negotiations should be a balanced compromise taking into account the different positions of the Member States.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-28-54-commissie-ic631x.u19	Minister, thank you for your answers. I've been waiting for them with a lot of attention. I do not hide from you my very sincere concern. You say that the burden of proof will not be on companies who complain of violations, distortions of competition, potential social and environmental dumping – I suppose – and that this will remain the responsibility of the Commission. This means that the Commission will fall into arbitrariness. There is no objectivation. There's no threshold, nothing. The Commission will draw up reports on distortions of competition, which will lead to the conclusion that there is a distortion and that action is needed, depending on the number of complaints. From what amount of complaints will it be considered that there is distortion of competition and dumping in China? If a company's weight in a sector is 45% or if ten companies whose weight represents 5% of a sector complain? Or from 35% of turnover or production capacity? Actually, there's nothing. There is no objection to the conditions. This seems to me particularly light and already strong in retreat from what is now on the table. You say that, in addition, attention will have to be paid to the results of the agreements negotiations. We are 27, since one country has decided to leave Europe. Our position is likely to weaken again. I find that the Commission's view, which leaves a great deal of pending questions, is, in fact, a strong position behind a compromise, and very little protective of the companies which are here in Belgium and which are already subject to these dumping measures in the head of the Chinese companies. I would like to remind you that I asked you in this respect about a distortion of competition between China and Europe, involving two companies, one in Wallonia, in the Charleroi region, and the other in Flanders, in Limburg. It was only two companies, and in a highly competitive sector. I still expected a reaction, since all the organisations, representing both employers and workers, criticize the low tax rates to which imports are subject. [[Currently, the minimum is 13 per cent, which can be increased to 75 per cent.]] In the United States, the rate can rise to up to 200 per cent. They do not hesitate for a second to apply this rate of 200 per cent in sectors they consider strategic and competitive. You can imagine the difference. These are really sanctions. Today, no percentage is proposed. We don't know how far we can go - and why not those 200 per cent? - in particularly competitive sectors, where there is clearly social and environmental fraud. I can only confirm to you that I am particularly concerned and a little disappointed by the Belgian Government's position on the firmness that must be faced with non-compliance by other States, and here in particular China, which maintains areas under infusion. The construction of Europe is based on the fact that states no longer maintain areas under infusion, as well as on the free market. These interventions are interventionism, or outright support, at arm's length, of a virtually bankrupt sector in China, for productions that are highly competitive, if not strategic, for our country, but also for Europe.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-28-54-commissie-ic631x.u20	Question No 54, by Mr De Pasquale 16947 and No. Mrs Leen Dierick's 16949 has been converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-28-54-commissie-ic631x.u21	Mr. Speaker, Mr.Minister, for years there have been discussions in the House on the issue of legal guarantee and planned obsolescence. Mr Minister, you spoke in the press about the contact point opened a year ago that allows consumers to report scams they might be victims of. On this occasion, you affirmed your willingness to extend the warranty period to one or even two years. I can only welcome this initiative. Indeed, the current deadline seems not only insufficient, but it appears that some brands take advantage of the lack of knowledge and the weakness of the legal guarantee to offer customers their commercial guarantee when purchasing a new device. This is most often presented as a "safer" guarantee than the legal guarantee. This shows that the latter is not sufficiently protected, put forward and that it remains too weak in view of the fact that the purchase of a device must guarantee ipso facto. Minister, what type of guarantee do you want to implement and what period of guarantee do you want to implement? Are we going to receive a project in this direction in the near future? I can only follow you about the planned obsolescence and the reporting of the reasonable life of a device - you should not let Parliament work because there are very nice proposals on the table. It is more than time to put an end to manufacturers' abuses at this level. Are you considering an appeal against false information if the device does not respond to what is stated?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-28-54-commissie-ic631x.u22	Minister, many things have already been mentioned. I'll go back to the subject again. It is true that I have already asked you many times on this subject which is really dear to my group and to myself. At the last inquiry in committee on 17 January, you indicated that you had asked the Consumer Council as well as the Conseil Supérieur des Indépendants et des SMEs. In the press, you said that your colleague Koen Geens was also collaborating on the work, with the aim of proposing concrete measures to improve the legal guarantee rules. We can enjoy all this, but I wish I'd known where you are. Minister, where are you in your work? Have any concrete measures been put forward? If so, which ones? How are discussions organised with all these many actors and, you will admit, with sometimes different interests? When do you think you will end up in this file? When can this bill be tabled in Parliament? What concrete measures have you taken to combat unfair trade guarantees? It is true that we see the problem of the legal guarantee, but there is still a big problem with the commercial guarantees offered by the shops. I think that the consumer is getting lost and that it is time to put a little bit of order in relation to these different elements. Thank you already for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-28-54-commissie-ic631x.u23	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, at a previous meeting of this committee, I confirmed that I had referred the matter to the Consumer Council and the High Council of Independents and Small and Medium Enterprises. These advisory bodies set up by the legislator are the first places of discussion for economic actors. On 21 February, the Council delivered its opinion. That of the Council of Consumer Affairs dates from 7 March. I had previously transmitted a copy of the referral. A new copy is available, if you wish. This referral did not contain a proposal for a text but reflected the principles of adaptation that I am considering and which are as follows: - a period of one year to reverse the burden of proof; - for certain products or categories of products, an option to extend the warranty period beyond two years; - better information to the consumer about the commercial guarantee. With regard to information on the life of a property, false allegations are unfair commercial practices and are thus already contrary to the law. There is therefore no need for new rules in this area. More precise information on the additional coverage offered by a commercial guarantee in relation to the legal guarantee and on its restrictions may help the consumer to make an informed choice. It is clear that commercial guarantees must meet legal requirements in terms of unfair terms and unfair commercial practices.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-28-54-commissie-ic631x.u24	Minister, thank you. First of all, the extension of the time limit for reversing the burden of proof to one year seems to me a good idea. We'll see what happens when the texts are ready. As for commercial guarantees, they are regulated in the Code of Economic Law. You're talking about consumer information. You need to be proactive, as this is rarely well-informed in this regard. Given the many devices that are ruined in a few months, many customers take a commercial warranty in addition to the legal warranty, as they are not always properly informed. I don't know if you have any statistics on this. That's why your bill should emphasize the need to write clearly and in large print the statement of these guarantees - a bit like what's in effect in bank documents. Besides, I would like to point out that it is not just a matter of protecting consumers from planned obsolescence. We know how polluting these small devices are and how irreparable and incompatible their manufacturers make them. It is therefore time to work on this issue from an environmental point of view, with a clear tightening of sanctions against manufacturers. To this end, you must also focus this debate on the European level.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-28-54-commissie-ic631x.u25	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your answer. I will not repeat what my excellent colleague Mrs Karine Lalieux has already said. They'd be nothing but repetitions. I'll spare you that. I think it is in the right direction to extend the time limit for reversing the burden of proof to one year. But I would have pleaded to go beyond, up to two years, in order to act in full transparency, to make it even clearer for the consumer, since the legal guarantee is two years. Do not play on this reversal of the burden of proof and define all deadlines at two years. I had a sub-question. You were talking about an upcoming opinion of the Consumer Council. Within which time should the Consumer Council give this opinion? I didn't hear.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-28-54-commissie-ic631x.u26	The opinion has already been delivered.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-28-54-commissie-ic631x.u27	All right. I understood you were talking about another opinion.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-28-54-commissie-ic631x.u28	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-28-54-commissie-ic631x.u29	This opinion is available.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-28-54-commissie-ic631x.u30	In any case, we will remain attentive to this issue. You are eagerly awaited because it is not a very complicated matter. You could very quickly propose something very concrete, positive for consumers and positive for the environment.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-28-54-commissie-ic631x.u31	Thank you, Mrs. Winckel. I therefore conclude that the incident is closed, but the file remains open and we will return to it, as our two colleagues have said.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-28-54-commissie-ic631x.u32	Question No 16251 by Mrs Van Hoof is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-28-54-commissie-ic631x.u33	Mr Minister, the consumer protection organisation Test-Achats has brought injunctions before the Brussels Commercial Court against the insurers AG Insurance, Axa and Belfius, concerning the medical questionnaire which they ask their customers to complete in the framework of the remaining balance insurance due. Hard case, Minister. Test-Achats believes that the questionnaires in question, which aim to estimate the risk of death of the insured, include excessive questions or which cannot be considered relevant and adequate in relation to their objective and above all in relation to the 2014 law. Last year, the association looked at the medical questionnaires of 12 insurers, to be completed as part of an outstanding balance insurance. She then issued a notice of formal notice to those she considered problematic, and this led some insurers to amend their questionnaire. For those whose efforts it found too weak, Axa, AG Insurance and Belfius, the organization finally decided to go to court. Among the examples of questions deemed excessive or too imprecise as to be adequate: "Do you suffer from anxiety?" or "Have you taken any medication in the last five years?" I dare you to say no, by the way. Minister, obviously, insurers do not comply with the legal requirements for the medical questionnaire. I have already come here concerning the composition of the Monitoring Bureau for which Test-Achats has resigned in the face of the obvious dysfunctions of this body and the impossibility of making its voice heard. I also think that it has not yet been replaced. What about the composition of the Bureau today? Depending on the decisions to be handed down by the Brussels Commercial Court, do you intend to review the composition of the Bureau? To put the Economy FPS in charge of controlling the questionnaires more assiduously? I'm not going to tell you about my privacy, but I can assure you that the medical questionnaire I recently received from ING was shameful, all for a loan of 30 000 euros. I think that today there are drifts: blood test, urine test, extended questionnaire from the doctor... I don't know if I myself am not going to file a complaint against this bank.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-28-54-commissie-ic631x.u34	Mr. Chairman, Ms.Lalieux, the Bureau for the Monitoring of Fees is composed as required by law. The representatives of the resigning consumers were replaced by Royal Decree of 27 October 2016. I am of the view that legal cases and the composition of the Monitoring Office are dissociated. The Insurance Act entrusts the Insurance Commission with a biennial evaluation of the application of the remaining balance insurance provisions. This evaluation report is complemented by a study by the Federal Centre for Health Care Expertise. On 17 January 2017, I sent a letter to the two bodies, so that this legal task could be carried out. I can tell you, Ms.Lalieux, that the FPS Economy currently does not have medical expertise to judge the need for certain medical questions to assess health risks.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-28-54-commissie-ic631x.u35	No, but the FPS Economy may have common sense, especially when you see the questions. Who hasn't taken a drug in the last five years? As my generalist would say, excuse me to tell you, you answer "no" to all the questions and you lie. These questionnaires encourage people to lie to their insurers and then run risks as part of their outstanding balance insurance. I believe it very sincerely. That's what doctors are pushing to do today, and that's what we all want to do. I hope that the assessment report of the Insurance Commission will come out very quickly. I don't know when it is planned, but it should be regular, since the law provides for it. But I don't think they do. I don't feel like they're on time. I would like you to inform the committee secretariat when this assessment takes place. There's a real problem with insurance. You should not be told how they treated the victims of the attacks. I think the insurance companies are doing everything they can to avoid paying the victims. They're no longer insurers. They only think about their shareholders. Minister, it's time to get back to you on all these issues. We missed an episode when we passed the mortgage law. We had to be tougher with the insurance companies, but I think their lobby still has a lot of ears in both Europe and this government.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-28-54-commissie-ic631x.u36	Questions Nos. 17242 and 17384 by Mrs Cassart-Mailleux were postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-28-54-commissie-ic631x.u37	Mr. President, Minister, you have asked the Consumer Council to provide expert advice on the fees charged in the event of late payment of invoices. A first opinion delivered at the end of January denounces overly vague general conditions, a first reminder often paid and costs whose justification is often unclear, and clearly calls for curbing excesses. The Council should give a second opinion on the solutions it advocates, but the latter is waiting for - if I am well informed - differences of opinion between the various components of the Council. Minister, we are aware of the number of delays in the payment of invoices. That said, it seems to us that many companies are asking for unjustified delay charges, at a time when sending a reminder over the Internet does not cost much. There seems to be a lot of abuse, excessive costs from the first reminder sent relatively quickly. The Code of Economic Law already sets out the conditions under which late charges are acceptable, but they remain unclear. The current situation shows that the current law is insufficient to protect consumers and to enable businesses to know to what extent they can claim late payment costs. Minister, when will the Council give its second opinion? Can you remind us of the composition of this Council? Is it not urgent to clarify the legal conditions for late payment fees by setting maximums and deadlines for payment? It seems to me that a bill on late payment costs from Sp.a. has been tabled and sent to the Justice Committee. Mr President, I don't know what she's doing here. The Minister of Justice may need to give an opinion on this proposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-28-54-commissie-ic631x.u38	Mrs Lalieux, I take note of this last question. There is likely to be a need to check at the organizational level of the House.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-28-54-commissie-ic631x.u39	Mr President, Mrs Lalieux, at the end of last year, I agreed with the proposal of the Consumer Council to work in two phases. I also expressed my wish to have the supplementary opinion in a short time. At present, discussions are still ongoing in the Council. And you know very well that the Consumer Council is a joint body composed of 13 members from consumer organisations and 13 members representing the organisations of production, distribution, middle classes and agriculture. In the interests of the consumer, excessive criminal clauses must be combated. It is also appropriate to take account of the interests of enterprises, which are entitled to adequate compensation for the costs incurred by the consumer who pays late. Before I take a concrete initiative, I want to have the Council's opinion, of course. I have sent a new letter to its chairman so that the second opinion can be delivered quickly.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-28-54-commissie-ic631x.u40	Thank you, Minister. I hope that the Council will quickly deliver an opinion. At the same time, it may have minority opinions and diverging positions. I do not question the fact that an invoice is due to be paid, but when we see the reminder fees and often for people who have payment difficulties – we must not lie about the increase in over-indebtedness – these reminder fees only dramatically increase the over-indebtedness and are often excessive. I think there's an emergency. It is good to have sent a letter to the Council of Consumer Affairs. I hope that by the summer, we will have a bill on the table to regulate these recall fees.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-28-54-commissie-ic631x.u41	Mr President, Minister, this question concerns a subject on which I have spoken with you a number of times. I have already questioned you about the reimbursement of negative interest on residential loans. You have always said very clearly in your replies that the Economic Law Code states that the borrowing rate must fluctuate both in the plus and in the minus. This means that the consumer can also receive a negative interest rate if the contract allows or does not exclude his or her mortgage credit. However, I am still getting reports that Belfius and perhaps other banks, but I have received a concrete example from Belfius, which continues to refuse to reimburse its customers who are entitled to pay negative interest. You told me in January that you would write to all the banks to remind them of their duties. Because there are still customers in the cold, I like to hear the following. Have you already sent the letter concerning the repayment of negative interest on mortgage loans to all banks? If so, can I get a copy of that? What reactions have you received from the banks? What else will you possibly do to ensure that the customers are given what they are entitled to?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-28-54-commissie-ic631x.u42	Mr Klaps, I can tell you that I have indeed sent letters. I didn't write down all the banks, but only the banks that didn't want to repay the negative interest. If you wish, I can get you a copy, because you asked for it. More importantly, I've been given answers as well. I have already received an answer from AXA, which has set up a FAST strategy fair, attentive, simple and transparent for customer relations. In this context, they have recently decided to examine all current agreements. Where there are uncertainties in the terms of the contract, they will put the customer's interest first. This means that, for the contracts concluded in the past and on which there is uncertainty, they will resolve the uncertainty in the interests of the customer. This means that they will take the necessary action. Belfius has also already given a reply, a less positive one though. They consider that the interest rate on mortgage loans cannot become negative because it would lead to an economic imbalance. I deeply regret that position, in such a way that I have had contact with Belfius to remind them that we have also received an answer from other institutions, namely AXA, which wants to solve the problem in a positive way and to the benefit of the consumer. I have said that I deeply regret their answer and I would like to speak to them again. There will therefore soon be a new contact with Belfius on the position they expressed in their letter, namely that they do not feel obliged to do anything positive for the consumer as regards negative interest rates in residential loans. I hope that now that they know that AXA does, they will be prepared to review their position.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-28-54-commissie-ic631x.u43	Mr President, Minister, I had already heard positive stories from AXA. I am also very pleased that AXA applies the principle that, for example, has been applied in the insurance sector for a long time. When the contract is unclear, it is decided in favour of the customer or consumer. That also makes sense, given the imbalance of power between the two sides. I would like to thank you for your continued efforts in this area. We provide good teamwork in that domain. I'd like to get a copy of the letter from you, but that can also be done digitally. In due course, I would like to hear the follow-up given to the action with Belfius.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-28-54-commissie-ic631x.u44	Colleagues, I must consult you on the organisation of our work. First of all, Mr. Calomne, you have several questions. Mrs Grovonius has only one question on the agenda and Mr Klaps also has one at the end of the agenda. Mr Calomne, if you allow your colleagues to ask their questions first, you would then have the opportunity to ask all your questions after each other.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-28-54-commissie-ic631x.u45	I fully agree with your proposal, Mr President.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-28-54-commissie-ic631x.u46	Your vous and remerce.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-28-54-commissie-ic631x.u47	Mr President, Minister, on Thursday 16 March MEPs voted on a regulation to exclude minerals from conflict zones from the European market. The text, unfortunately less ambitious than Parliament's initial draft, aims to stop the human rights violations caused by this trade. "blood" ores, i.e. tungsten, tin, tantalum and gold, are used in the production of everyday objects such as mobile phones, computers, refrigerators, cars or bulbs. They come mainly from Africa, in particular from the Democratic Republic of the Congo, in particular from the Great Lakes region. From 2021 onwards, some European importers (foundations, refineries and other major companies in the raw minerals sector) will be required to carry out checks on the origin of their ores by assessing the "reasonable diligence" of their suppliers. In other words, they will have to ensure that their supplies are extracted in conditions that respect human rights. Only a whole part of the enterprises will be affected. However, the European Union reserves the right to lay down binding rules for suppliers if their initiatives prove to be insufficient after two years, which would allow control throughout the chain. Minister, how will this regulation be applied in practice in Belgium? What concrete measures will be suggested to Belgian companies?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-28-54-commissie-ic631x.u48	Mrs Grovonius, the new regulation has a threefold objective: to prevent the export to the European Union of ores and metals resulting from the conflict, to prevent the use of conflict minerals by the European Union's global smelters and refineries, and to prevent abuses committed against minor workers. In March, the Regulation was approved by the European Parliament. It is expected that, after formal approval by the Council, the text will be published at the end of May in order to bring the regulation into force. The new Regulation will only apply to the undertakings concerned from 1 January 2021, so that they have ample time to comply with the obligations. As far as possible, however, the European Commission asks the companies concerned to start checking their suppliers as soon as possible, preferably before 1 January 2021. The European rules provide that the Member States of the European Union shall designate a competent authority to carry out, on the basis of the activation of the obligation in 2021, the coordination of control with the European Commission and the national control of compliance with the Regulation. At the end of the current plan submitted no later than three months after the publication of the regulation, Member States will have to indicate to the European Union which administrative body has been designated as the competent authority for control. I can inform you that the SPF Economy is working internally on a proposal to ensure that Belgium fulfils its monitoring obligations in this area. A first administrative meeting of the experts concerned took place last week. Several other meetings will take place in the coming weeks. The administration will then send me a proposal on this subject. In this way, Belgium will be ready to provide the European Commission with an internal approach plan after the publication of the Regulation within the time constraints.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-28-54-commissie-ic631x.u49	Minister, you do not yet have the concrete answers to my questions as the reflection is under way. I will come back to you later to have the additional elements. It's becoming a habit!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-28-54-commissie-ic631x.u50	You always have to persevere, Mrs. Grovonius. This applies to all areas.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-28-54-commissie-ic631x.u51	Just last week, Minister, we adopted the bill on various economic provisions in plenary. The draft law provides, inter alia, a solution to the inequality created by registration as a credit intermediary or insurance intermediary. In the past, directors and managers of a company were prevented from registering in the register of mortgage credit intermediaries or the register of insurance intermediaries for a lifetime after bankruptcy. However, this did not apply to self-employed persons without a company. That problem was solved, for which our appreciation was appreciated. Nevertheless, during the discussion of the draft law there was a lack of clarity as to how the FSMA examines the history of bankruptcy. You stated that it is up to the applicant for registration as an insurance intermediary to report his background and that it seems also difficult to conceal information about previous bankruptcies. However, you also said during the discussion that you would ask about the way in which the FSMA is actually investigating the bankruptcies. I suggested that, if necessary, a register be established for bankruptcy decisions, so that the FSMA could easily and efficiently verify whether or not an insurance intermediary was the subject of a bankruptcy decision. You replied that you would take that suggestion and submit it to the FSMA. I know it's short notice. I didn't know at the time of filing the question that we would have a questioning session so soon. In the meantime, have you received an answer from the FSMA on how bankruptcies are monitored in practice? Is that a final approach or do we need to make any changes? What is the FSMA's response to the proposal to establish a bankruptcy judgment register?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-28-54-commissie-ic631x.u52	Mr Klaps, the FSMA is based on the questionnaire submitted by the candidate. An external database is consulted when indicating inconsistencies. Secondly, the FSMA does samples by name over the internet. Also with the database of the Crossroads Bank of Enterprises, a full cross-check of registered intermediaries and registration of the candidate intermediaries is made regularly. Finally, the Belgian Official Journal examines the applicant's company's previous records and bankruptcies. Given the high volume of applications, about 3,500 incoming applications in a normal year of operation, this screening is risk-based. Similarly, a screening is carried out in the context of the updating of the file of an intermediary already registered and of any modification thereof. The conditions for registration must be observed continuously. The FSMA generally asks a series of questions to the candidate to be able to check the conditions of registration, including those of suitability and professional reliability, and to investigate a professional prohibition. The questions surrounding an earlier bankruptcy are part of this. The intermediary shall be legally obliged to answer the questions in the event of registration correctly and during the duration of the registration to notify without delay all changes to his registration file. The FSMA conducts regular checks on these registration files, but depends in part on the input of the intermediaries. The aforementioned monitoring of involvement in bankruptcies is rather cumbersome and risk-based in its approach. Even after the new legislation, it remains very relevant for the FSMA whether a physical person was declared bankrupt or whether it is involved as a director, manager or responsible for distribution in a company declared bankrupt. This is the case both at the time of registration and during the duration of the invitation to tender. In fact, regardless of the introduction of the new law, the FSMA should always be able to assess whether a candidate intermediary, a physical person or an effective leader and responsible for distribution in a legal person meets the above-mentioned requirement of fitness and professional reliability, fit and clean. In doing so, involvement in fraudulent bankruptcy will be taken into account as a negative element: the disposal of money, scams, etc. According to settled case-law of the Council of State, the FSMA has a discretionary margin of discretion. The extract from the criminal record can clarify this, but only if the physical person has been convicted of criminal offences. For intermediaries already registered, the FSMA is not automatically informed by the court of their possible criminal conviction. This also applies to ongoing bankruptcy proceedings or ongoing criminal proceedings. The FSMA considers that having a bankruptcy database can usefully help the FSMA to do a quick and efficient search. In future, the FSMA aims to obtain more information from both internal and external sources from the data at its disposal in an automated manner. The automated crossover of the database and the Crossroads Bank of Enterprises, enriched with a bankruptcy register, would allow to detect faster and more close problem situations.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-28-54-commissie-ic631x.u53	Thank you, Minister, for your detailed answer. I can only endorse the FSMA's response. There are, of course, several possibilities for monitoring at the moment, but that is rather cumbersome. The duration of the answer alone indicates that it is a whole procedure. Perhaps there are gaps here and there if the applicant is of bad will. Of course there is no problem for those who fill everything out correctly, but it must of course be the objective to get the cowboys out where necessary. We shall examine the proposal for a bankruptcy register, because I think it can indeed be a useful solution. I will certainly come back to you in that regard.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-28-54-commissie-ic631x.u54	Mr President, Mr Deputy Prime Minister, it is my responsibility that many Belgians have recently been victims of attempts at consummation by telephone. One often reported manoeuvre is the alleged representative of a law firm specializing in the film industry telephones a citizen and accuses him of having illegally downloaded works protected by copyright. The said representative then tries to extort money in exchange for the end of a judicial procedure which, of course, does not exist. These fraudulent practices are unacceptable and totally illegal. Citizens must be protected at best against such blackmail. Deputy Prime Minister, do you have any figures on the number of telephone scams that have been used by citizens in recent years? According to the information at your disposal, what is the status of this case? What measures have been taken or are they under consideration, in the short term, to combat this type of scam? Are there any plans for better prevention and public information in the face of these practices, possibly in synergy with your colleague Mr Jambon, Minister of the Interior and Security?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-28-54-commissie-ic631x.u55	Mr. Calomne, my administration received in 2015 and 2016 respectively 940 and 1,817 reports for which the complainants declared the telephone as sales or advertising methods for which the rating of fraud was assigned. The increase in 2016 can no doubt be explained by the launch on 22 February 2016 of the new contact point. However, my administration has informed me that to date I have not received any reports regarding the illegal downloading of copyrighted works. Several prevention initiatives are being taken. The SPF Economy warns against various forms of scams through press releases via its website and social networks, for example against fraudulent phone calls offering free travel. FSMA also regularly warns against the so-called boiler rooms and other forms of investment fraud that put pressure on citizens by telephone. There are also tips on how to check these cases and what to do when you are a victim.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-28-54-commissie-ic631x.u56	Minister, thank you. Of course, the number of cases of fraud recorded cannot be welcomed. But this at least highlights the interest and usefulness of the point of contact that you have set up. We must be able to continue working in this direction, in a preventive way, to detect scams as quickly as possible and prevent them from multiplying.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-28-54-commissie-ic631x.u57	Deputy Prime Minister, the services of the Economic Inspectorate conducted an investigation from 1 April to 31 July last into the professional sector of real estate agents. It would appear that the number of cases of breaches of legal regulations and requirements would be very high, that is, 59% of the persons targeted by the sample of checks. If I believe the information disseminated by the media, all the economic actors fulfil the obligation to register with the Professional Institute of Real Estate Agents, but many disputes remain in terms of contract management. These include problems of legibility of tariffs, but also of non-compliance with the consumer's right of withdrawal when renting or selling goods with a real estate agent. Finally, it is also worrying that the Act of 11 January 1993 on the prevention of the use of the financial system for money-laundering and the financing of terrorism appears to be poorly respected by one in six professionals. When asked about this case, I quote: "The number of infringements in this area remains far too large and the results of the checks are only slightly better than in the previous investigation.... I am confident that the survey and my letter to the Professional Institute of Real Estate Agents (IPl) will lead to structural corrections." Deputy Prime Minister, can you tell us the general state of the situation? What are the results compared to the previous year's survey? What exactly is the content of the mail you sent to the IPI and, therefore, what structural corrections do you expect? Finally, what measures have you chosen to encourage, in synergy with the sectoral representations, all the necessary measures to improve professional practices in this sector in particular? Thank you for the answers you can give us.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-28-54-commissie-ic631x.u58	Mr Calomne, you have apparently already received all the figures, since you have quoted some of them. It is therefore not necessary to repeat them here. By letter addressed to the IPI (Professional Institute of Real Estate Agents), I expressed my concern about the large number of infringements and the slight improvement in the situation with regard to the previous investigation. I stressed to the Institute the need for greater compliance by real estate agents with the regulations. I will of course give you a copy of this letter if you wish. A meeting with IPI officials was held on March 1. Last Wednesday, my firm received representatives from ACIP (Insurances, Credits, Brokerage, Real Estate, Mortgage Loans). In any case, I will ensure that the 2007 Royal Order is updated. My administration is in the process of preparing this file.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-28-54-commissie-ic631x.u59	Minister, thank you for your answer. I will follow closely the development of this issue, since you are in the process of perfecting this regulation. It'll be very useful.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-28-54-commissie-ic631x.u60	Mr President, Minister, following the announcement of the results of the Brexit referendum, you set up a crisis team quite quickly to deal with the possible negative consequences for our country of leaving the United Kingdom. You had had very clear words in stressing the importance of listening to the advice of renowned experts and thus nurturing the government's action on the basis of their recommendations. It is now apparent that the United Kingdom could be subject to a number of relocations from its companies, anxious to maintain a European anchor, but that these relocations of activities may not necessarily benefit Belgium. This is at least the result of a study carried out by Ernst & Young, which seems to favour the relocation of economic actors to Germany and the Netherlands. Minister, have you had the opportunity to go through this study on the relocation of businesses and, therefore, do you share its conclusions? What is the current assessment of the work of the crisis team formed last June? What recommendations have already been provided to the government? What measures have been adopted so far, in consultation with the regional authorities responsible for external trade, to limit the negative impact of Brexit and to promote all possible benefits?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-28-54-commissie-ic631x.u61	Mr President, my colleague, I have read the study by Ernst & Young entitled "Plan B... for Brexit" in January 2017. I note with you that, despite the decline in the attractiveness of the United Kingdom to foreign investors, 86% of foreign investors do not plan to move their business to the continent. Neither our country nor any of our cities are listed as destinations of excellence. However, this does not mean that some companies would not be able to choose our country for reasons that were not considered important in this study. On the other hand, I share the view expressed in the said study that it is difficult for companies today to assess the impact of Brexit on their supply line, given the lack of clarity regarding the economic relationship between the United Kingdom and the European Union of 27. On the other hand, it is far too early to speculate on the relocation of companies established in Britain, particularly following various promises such as those made in Nissan. Indeed, the British Government is making every effort to ensure that this enterprise remains in the United Kingdom. Let me point out here that promotional measures to attract new foreign investment fall within the competence of the Regions. All members of this commission received the report of the High Level Group on Brexit, which was presented to the Prime Minister on January 30th. In addition to a macroeconomic and sectoral analysis carried out on the basis of studies and with the contribution of sectoral federations, the report contains many recommendations which are formulated to the government and which are structured around seven basic recommendations. These were drawn up on the basis of contributions from the inter-sectoral federations (FEB-Unizo-VOKA-UWE-BECI), as well as on the basis of conclusions drawn from the previous chapters. In essence, the Group calls for a smooth landing and for a transitional regime between the withdrawal agreement and the conclusion of a deep and comprehensive free trade agreement. We must definitely avoid a WTO scenario because it leads to a "losing-losing" situation. It is now up to the government to incorporate recommendations and whether or not to use them in its proposal or position with regard to the negotiating directives and the negotiating mandate of the Commission which will be drawn up after the notification of Article 50, probably tomorrow, 29 March, by the United Kingdom. The negative impact of Brexit today lies mainly in the erosion of the conversion rate of the pound against the euro. This results in strong pressure on our market share and competitiveness in the UK market. Neither the regional level nor the federal level can change anything. To date, specific measures have not proved necessary. This may well change after the exit agreement and depending on the course of negotiations. The evolution of the market position and the export environment of our companies is closely monitored.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-28-54-commissie-ic631x.u62	Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, I thank you for your particularly comprehensive response to the follow-up to this issue, which is still important, with also and probably significant repercussions on our country. We will, of course, continue to monitor this issue and its developments, which we hope will not be too negative.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-28-54-commissie-ic631x.u63	Mr President, Deputy Prime Minister, according to Google Belgium's boss, online IT security for Belgians would be threatened, as well as the online consumer market. Indeed, in a public presentation on cybersecurity, he said that "more than half of Internet users know virtually nothing about how to use the Internet safely". At the same time, a study conducted by the GfK office revealed that Belgians would be fully aware of the main risks on the web, but that they would only use the most basic security measures, namely the simple use of an antivirus. This is obviously not enough since, according to the said study, 37% of Belgians admitted to having been victims of a difficult experience online, including identity theft, resale of personal data or fraud. To address this lack of security, it would appear that Test-Achats has already set up websites dedicated to online consumption, as well as a magazine specializing in the subject in order to raise awareness among the Belgian public on the subject. In addition, Test-Achats and Google have decided to jointly run a campaign to support the information and use of good practices on the web. At a time when the development of e-commerce is one of our government's priorities, I would like to know if you have had the opportunity to meet with Test-Achats and Google Belgium officials to discuss this awareness campaign? If so, what was the status of these contacts? Is there any plan to involve your services? Furthermore, at your level, what measures have been adopted or will they be adopted in the short and medium term to support secure internet navigation for citizens, in synergy with your counterpart, the Deputy Prime Minister in charge of the Digital Agenda?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-28-54-commissie-ic631x.u64	Mr. Calomne, Test-Achats and Google didn't contact me about the campaign they're going to run together. As a result, my firm invited them to an interview on this subject. This will examine whether and how the FPS Economy can support this initiative. Consumer protection on the Internet is indeed a priority of our government. In this regard, my services, in collaboration with those reporting to Minister De Croo and Minister Borsus, have supported various awareness-raising activities, including the following. The SPF Economy launched the contact point.belgique.be platform, which allows consumers who are victims of deception, scams, fraud or scams to file a complaint and to have a notice and all the information necessary to react as best they can. My services participate in various awareness campaigns, such as E-Shop Defense, Safer Internet Day, b-bico.be etc. As a matter of fact, my services cooperate with the competent authorities, in particular with the Privacy Commission, in matters falling within their competence. The SPF Economy is also an active member of the Cyber Security Coalition, which brings together the public and private sectors as well as the academic community to discuss cybersecurity issues, including consumer and business awareness. The SPF Economy publishes annually the Information Society Barometer, which identifies various issues related to the digital economy and cybersecurity. The Economy FPS will soon provide consumers and businesses with useful information on good information security practices through the creation of new web pages on the Economy FPS website. On its website, FSMA also regularly warns against the practices of boiler rooms and other forms of fraudulent placement offers where citizens are contacted by telephone and put under pressure. It also provides some useful advice on whether to deal with such an offer and what to do if you are a victim.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-28-54-commissie-ic631x.u65	Thank you, Deputy Prime Minister, for your answer. I took note of the scheduled appointment with your firm as part of the opening of the specific campaign that I mentioned, so that the SPF Economy would join, if necessary, this initiative. I have also taken note of all the various actions and what is being implemented at the government level. Digital and digital activities are growing. This is rather positive, but this development needs to be accompanied by a framework that is both secure and adapted to the use of these new technologies. Thank you for the answers that you have given us today.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-28-54-commissie-ic631x.u66	I propose that Mr Calomne begin, pending Mr de Lamotte, who has been retained in the Committee on the Interior for the vote. He was contacted twice. If he joins us, good! If not, his question will unfortunately become moot.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-28-54-commissie-ic631x.u67	Mr President, Mr Deputy Prime Minister, a recent study by the European Commission drew the alarm bell about UV rays emitted by solar benches. In fact, the Scientific Committee on Health, Environmental and Emerging Risks (SCHEER) issued an opinion stating that "there is no safe use" of tanning machines. This notification joins a long series of rather alarmist data, including another study by the University of Ghent, commissioned by the Cancer Foundation. The latter revealed last year that 35,000 new skin cancer diagnoses are detected annually following often reckless exposure to UV radiation. This week again, Test-Achats was pulling the alarm bell about it and I was able to read a press article an hour ago saying that in a few years, one in two people would face skin cancer. Sensitized to this problem, you announced last January that you had commissioned your services to intensify the controls carried out with the relevant brands. I quote: "Infringements that directly affect the health of users are inadmissible and will be identified and punished... I have made a clear signal to the sector that we are maintaining zero tolerance for infringements that involve a direct risk to health." You had also had the opportunity to stress that the finding of infringements could lead to seals being affixed, the seizure or even closure of establishments in default, which unfortunately represent part of this sector and which undermine the many signs which respect the legal arrangements in this field. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, what is the status of the controls that have been commissioned from your services? Are you satisfied with the probe shots operated at the sign level? How many offences were detected in 2016 and how many institutions? Can you disaggregate your response by Region? Do you also have data on the internal controls that FEBELSOL had planned with its affiliates? Finally, on the basis of the results of these checks, have you chosen any new measures to improve practices in establishments in the sector, particularly those in breach? If so, which ones?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-28-54-commissie-ic631x.u68	Mr President, I thank my colleagues for having waited a few seconds. Minister, the Cancer Foundation recalled on February 27 that the most recent research showed that the safe use of solar benches did not exist. Today's press, moreover, still reports several checks in this regard. The Scientific Committee on Health, Environmental and Emerging Risks (SCHEER) of the European Commission issued a new opinion last November, which clearly identifies solar benches as an important cause of skin cancer. To do so, it is based on new scientific studies. The opinion of the SCHEER therefore states that there is no harmless use of solar benches. Pending the implementation of their total ban, the Cancer Foundation requires, as additional measures: greater severity towards the managers of solar benches that do not comply with the legislation, as well as the continuation of controls; scrupulous monitoring of the registration of tanning centres for commercial use and full transparency in the communication of results; and more in-depth consideration of additional measures that could reduce the use of solar benches and improve the protection of the consumer. Similar measures are already being taken in other countries in sectors such as tobacco. I am talking about the ban on false advertising and commercial actions, warnings about the dangers of the product, etc.The rapid publication of the opinion and recommendations of the Higher Council of Health; the establishment of a genuine policy for the prevention of skin cancers, which is constantly increasing. Minister, do you agree with the conclusion of the Cancer Foundation that solar benches should be completely banned and these commercial tanning centres closed? Do you intend to follow their suggestions for additional measures? Since 1 March, any establishment where a tanning centre is operated must register with the Banque-Carrefour des Entreprises under a specific code. What's the status of this operation? What is the precise number of solar benches for commercial use in Belgium?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-28-54-commissie-ic631x.u69	Mr de Lamotte, I will ask you to take the Chair. Mrs Fonck has just arrived because she has a question on the agenda. So I want to say that I leave you as a family, Minister, with my two colleagues. Mr. Calomne finished his performance.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-28-54-commissie-ic631x.u70	He can enter the family.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-28-54-commissie-ic631x.u71	As you have a lot of convergence within the European People's Party, this should not be a problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-28-54-commissie-ic631x.u72	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, a total ban on the exploitation of solar banks on the basis of the powers that are mine is not obvious. It seems to me that it is primarily up to the European Commission to draw the necessary conclusions from the SCHEER study. I was informed yesterday afternoon that a meeting of the LVD (Low Voltage Directive) Working Party would be held on April 4 to discuss the report. I would point out that at present a European standard sets the maximum radiation level for solar benches at 0.3 watt/square metre. As long as this rule is applicable, it is difficult for a Member State to prohibit tanning centres. Indeed, a company that complies with a standard is expected, unless proven otherwise, to offer a product or service that complies with the safety rules. As you know, I have completed the Royal Decree laying down the conditions for the operation of tanning centres. As a result of this amendment which has entered into force in recent days, they will have to have a more precise NACEBEL registration than in the Banque-Carrefour des Entreprises. Last Friday, 124 companies took an entry under this specific NACEBEL code, 72 files were processed by the ECB's services, the companies using the interim measures, and 52 by business counters. With regard to the survey carried out by the Economic Inspectorate last year, I can provide you with the following information: 199 centres were checked; only 13 centres complied with all the operating conditions imposed by the Royal Decree of 2002; a total of 1,214 infringements were detected. Survey results are not processed for statistics by Region. According to the information I received from FEBELSOL, it carried out 68 checks last year. Recently, she's in possession of a radiation measuring device. Thus, tanning centres, whether or not members of FEBELSOL, may request, against payment, that a measurement of their solar benches be carried out, for example, when UV lamps are replaced. In view of the results of the checks by my services, the balance sheet can only be negative. Too many tanning centres remain in violation. In any event, the Economic Inspectorate's efforts will continue in 2017. As a result of the new rule, companies active in this field will be better known, which will increase the effectiveness of controls. I have also asked my services to examine whether tanning centres may be obliged to have the radiation of their solar benches checked, at their own expense, after a seizure. Last information: on 9 February, I sent a letter to the Minister of Public Health requesting that the Higher Council of Health issue an opinion on solar benches in the near future. The latest news, received yesterday afternoon, announces that the Council College will consider this request at its meeting on 5 April.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-28-54-commissie-ic631x.u73	I thank you, Deputy Prime Minister, for this detailed answer, although the figures you are referring to are far from reassuring. According to my calculation, only 6 or 7 per cent of the centres would be in order. There are 1,214 offences. I can only encourage you to continue your work with a better knowledge and identification of the different centres in the face of the new arrangements. I have heard the reply that you have given us concerning the opinion sought from the Supreme Council of Health. I will probably ask Mrs De Block a question once the opinion has been delivered for more information on this subject. I understand that the opinion would be delivered at the meeting on 5 April. A supplementary question will be included for more information. I can only encourage you to continue your efforts in this area because the figures are alarming. Especially if they are compared to the current situation and the very serious health risks.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-28-54-commissie-ic631x.u74	Minister, in this case, obviously, the rule is the infringement! You quote figures that are impressive! I would remind you that this is about public health. You have informed your colleague; this is a first step, but it is also necessary to consolidate the work of the Economic Affairs departments so that they can follow the dossiers more than attentively. This is a very important health issue and we will come back to the rest of this issue. I do not want skin diseases or cancers to multiply as a result of an intensive and poorly regulated use of this type of device.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-28-54-commissie-ic631x.u75	Mr President, thank you for waiting for me. I'm going from committee to committee. In particular, we had to study the delicious file of eco-cheques in the Social Affairs Committee. Minister, I come back to you after visiting your various colleagues about very violent attacks on health professionals, especially those who go to the patient's home. If I speak to you, it is for your hat that concerns the insurance component. My comment will be based on the case of a particularly violent assault leaving extremely severe physical sequelae to a doctor, who has been denied the additional health care costs incurred in the exercise of his profession by his insurer. However, this was a professional insurance policy. Minister, I have a few questions for you. Are you aware of situations of general practitioners or health professionals who have been assaulted in the exercise of their profession and who are faced with the same situation as the one I have just mentioned, namely the refusal of insurance to cover the costs of health care as a result of this aggression? What are the means and remedies available to these abused professionals to meet these costs resulting from an act of violence committed in the context of their professional activity? When asked in this regard, your colleague Minister of Health simply replied that insurers were planning to introduce a new policy against assaults in the performance of their professional duties. I honestly find that such an answer is insufficient. Do you have any means of action in this area? Do you intend to use them? Finally, what do you think, in particular, of the implementation of an obligation for insurers to provide for automatic coverage of the costs resulting from an assault suffered in connection with the exercise of the profession?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-28-54-commissie-ic631x.u76	Mrs Fonck, in all honesty, I am not aware of any particular problems with the payment of guaranteed income insurance or hospital insurance benefits when doctors are victims of violence. I am available to review the examples you are aware of and to contact Assuralia to discuss the issue. In general, you know that if a doctor is faced with difficulties when paying, he still has the opportunity to contact Ombudsfin. If this leads to no satisfactory solution, he may, in the second instance, institute legal proceedings. I also asked Mrs De Block, the minister responsible for public health, whether she was aware of the problems of the doctors in question. Based on your examples, I can contact Assuralia. For the time being, I have no information on this. I would like to discuss this with Mrs De Block and then contact Assuralia and find a suitable solution.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-28-54-commissie-ic631x.u77	Minister, thank you. Mrs De Block, whom I was questioning on the same subject, confirmed to me that certain insurances were involved and not others, since she even suggested that insurance companies should consider the possibility of introducing a new policy, which would be an additional specific policy against assaults. I think it's starting to work a lot, if I may. It is a profession at risk, in the context of home visits, for all health professionals, it is well known. What I remember from your answer, and I thank you for that, is the pole that you are holding me. I will therefore communicate to you this extremely challenging personal situation. Compared to the other possibility, namely to institute a trial, I believe that this is frankly a bad idea and especially for health professionals and in this case, for this doctor with extremely severe sequelae as a result of this aggression. I'll send you the particular file in my personal capacity.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-28-54-commissie-ic631x.u78	Minister, on February 16, you were questioned about Dieselgate by a coalition of consumer, environmental and health organizations. These organisations presented you with a list of demands to avoid a new Dieselgate and asked you to defend them at the European Competitiveness Council meeting on 20 February and at the Transport Council meeting on 28 February. As summarized by Test-Achats, there are four recommendations. Firstly, more and better checks at national and European level, before and after the vehicle is on the market, severe penalties for infringements and a new strong and independent European agency ensuring the enforcement of checks and the necessary cooperation with national authorities. Secondly, real guarantees of independence. To date, car manufacturers have paid for testing centres to obtain approval or to carry out other checks. Any financial link between manufacturers and centres must be broken. In future, the national authority will have to decide at which centre the tests will be carried out. Thirdly, greater transparency throughout the monitoring and approval processes so that Member States, manufacturers and centres cannot escape their responsibilities. Fourthly, greater transparency in recall actions so that the consumers concerned receive clear information on the remedial measures to be taken. Legislation must also guarantee the right to compensation for the consumer. These recommendations are intended to prevent a scandal like the Dieselgate from happening again. Mr Minister, could you present us with the position that Belgium ultimately defended at these meetings? Have you been able to satisfy the requests of the organizations? Could you summarize the conclusions of these meetings and the discussions that have taken place there? Finally, at the time of the adoption of the motion following the Dieselgate Committee, our Parliament called on the government and, in particular, on the Minister of the Economy, asking him to report on the actions implemented in order to prevent such a scandal from happening again. When will you come to our committee with this report?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-28-54-commissie-ic631x.u79	Mr President, the current debate concerns a regulation on market surveillance and reception. These are the competencies of regional and federal Ministers of Mobility. At the Competitiveness Council on 20 February, the status of the dossier was presented and I asked the Presidency to give priority to this matter. I have also proposed to introduce into the regulation the basic principles of the code of conduct that I have signed with the Belgian car industry concerning recall actions. The essence of these recommendations is that, when a recall is made, it is explained in a language that is easily understood, as is the risk or non-compliance, and that interventions in the context of a recall are always free of charge to the client. I also said that the proposed text was in the right direction and that we were in favour of harmonised application of European legislation on reception and more stringent market surveillance. This will increase the credibility of the automotive industry as well as that of the authorities. The final result will be more important than how it will be achieved. With regard to the recommendations of the Dieselgate Commission, the Prime Minister will publish a coordinated report in response to Mr Nollet's written question No 208. I can already give you my contribution. For the rest, I don't think this is the last time you're asking for information about this dorsie!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-28-54-commissie-ic631x.u80	Minister, when you say you're going to give me your contribution, do you mean you're going to send me a document? [[Oui]] Thank you. I can hear your answers and read them again.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-28-54-commissie-ic631x.u81	Mr President, Mr Minister, we are all consumers and, even if we find ourselves there most of the time, we sometimes face abusive practices or the limit of dishonesty on the part of companies or other economic actors. We seek support in our individual approaches. Some conscious citizens are also working to denounce these abuses through comments on the Internet, legal attacks or seizure by the authorities. To obtain support from the authorities and/or report abuses to the authorities, citizens now have three platforms at their disposal (consumermediation.be, contact point.belgique.be, belmed.fgov.be). The Consumer Mediation Service is an autonomous public service responsible for the following tasks, as defined by the Code of Economic Law: - informing consumers and businesses of their rights and obligations, in particular the possibilities for out-of-court settlement of consumer disputes; - to receive any request for out-of-court settlement of a consumer dispute and, where appropriate, to forward it to another qualified entity competent in the matter, or to process it itself; - intervene itself in any request for the extrajudicial settlement of a dispute for which no other qualified entity is competent. The Point of Contact comes into play when you are a victim of deception, scam, fraud or fraud or when your rights as a consumer or business have not been respected. This Contact Point was also the subject of press articles that praised the more than 20,000 reports collected within ten months of its launch. The SPF Economy website informs about the difference between these two platforms in the Consumer Protection section>Guarantee>Litiges and Complaints. With regard to infringements of the legislation, compliance with the legislation on the guarantee is monitored by the Directorate-General of the Economic Inspectorate. You can report any illegal or unfair commercial practice to the Contact Point. If you want to settle your dispute amicably, the Consumer Mediation Service can help you. To make use of it, you must first have tried an amicable arrangement with the company. The third platform, BelMed, makes it possible to resolve disputes between traders or between consumers and traders via the Internet and outside the courts through the intervention of an independent mediator. BelMed is also the only service on my.belgium.be, the only online public service portal, the Contact Point and the Consumer Mediation Service not included. Minister, you will agree that, at least in appearance, the missions of these three platforms overlap in part. At a time when the State wants a customer-oriented approach, this duplication of platforms leads to confusion, especially since there is no link between them while the same problem could be addressed to the different platforms. It then seems to us that Belgium must find levers to improve its e-government since, in the European Commission's latest DESI report, Belgium ranks 13th out of 28 in terms of e-government. I therefore allow myself to give thought to a few questions. Are synergies between these platforms already exploited? Don't you see any additional synergies? Do you not think that even a link between the three platforms would be necessary to awaken awareness of the existence of these other two platforms? Would it not be wise to clarify for the citizen the role of each platform? Should not point of contact platforms and the Consumer Mediation Service be included on the my.belgium.be platform? Is the information collected by these platforms also consolidated? Would it not be beneficial to have a single portal for consumers in B2B and B2C? This could ease the administrative burden on each other.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-28-54-commissie-ic631x.u82	Mr de Lamotte, there are already synergies between platforms when the consumer, after reporting a dispute with a company at a Point of Contact, is referred by the latter to the Consumer Mediation Service. Next, the Contact Point also sends it back to BelMed when the alert relates to a dispute between companies. Finally, the SPF Economy website displays links to the Contact Point, BelMed and the Consumer Mediation Service. As a result, the three platforms are already in relationship. The Contact Point has been in existence for a little over a year. The Consumer Mediation Service has been available since June 2015. I can therefore imagine that the consumer does not always know who it is best to address and that he does not know the exact differences between these organs. The information sent by me and the SPF Economy gradually contributes to a better knowledge and understanding. Inserting a section on this topic on my.belgium.be seems to me a useful track. I asked the SPF Economy to explore it further. Similarly, I asked him to discuss with the Consumer Mediation Service and the Contact Point how to simplify things via the website. For example, when BelMed is indicated as a consumer mediation service, I find that this creates confusion. Indeed, it is in fact a tool that refers to extrajudicial mediation bodies. The information collected within each platform is the subject of an organisation and analysis. However, they are not consolidated. A single portal does not seem obvious to me and is not necessarily easier to use for the consumer or the company. First, they must be able to understand the respective competencies of existing platforms. Easy and effective references will certainly be more useful to them.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-28-54-commissie-ic631x.u83	Minister, thank you. You just talked about confusion yourself. Admit it's not clear as rock water for the user. It would therefore be appropriate to be attentive and to act in the direction of simplification by examining the levers that would have to be used to achieve better consumer protection in this area. We'll be back in a while.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-28-54-commissie-ic631x.u84	Mr Minister, Test-Achats pointed out that many food products sold with the terms "craft", "old-fashioned", "traditional" or "grandmother-like" contained additives such as flavour enhancers, dyes and stabilizers. Similarly, products bearing the word "hand" or "homemade" would in fact be manufactured mainly by industrial methods. Test-Achats notes the apparent inconsistency between these statements and the presence of these additives or the production process. While the craft trade is recognised and protected in Belgium (less than 20 workers, manual production methods, etc.).), the term "craft" is not recognized for production and can be used by the marketing of any manufacturer to make a product more attractive. In contrast, France has clearly and strictly defined what can be sold under the terms "craft", "natural", "homemade" and "traditional". The focus is on criteria such as the use of traditional methods, ingredients and authentic recipes, as well as small-scale production by artisans who know their product. Products from an industrial production line or containing all kinds of industrial ingredients do not meet these requirements. Minister, do you think that a legal and precise definition of this type of reference is useful? Do you intend to introduce such a legal definition at Belgian level? How do you intend to promote such a legal definition at European level in order to avoid unfair competition between states?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-28-54-commissie-ic631x.u85	Mr de Lamotte, it seems to me difficult to find a clear and exhaustive legal definition covering craft products, taking into account the various criteria that you have mentioned. There are also grey areas where it is difficult to assess the artisanal character of certain products. In any event, giving the consumer the impression that a food product is manufactured in a craft way, whereas this is not the case, constitutes a form of misleading advertising. It's not allowed. The Economic Inspectorate reviews manufacturing processes on a case-by-case basis. I do not think that the legislative route is the best way to deal with this problem. But the Economy FPS is in the process of developing guidelines that can best assist and guide both professionals and consumers.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-28-54-commissie-ic631x.u86	Minister, I referred to the term "craftsman". French law defines it. It may be necessary to draw inspiration from it and not fool the consumer with a hollow word. This is a consumer protection issue. I wanted to draw your attention to this.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-28-54-commissie-ic631x.u87	(...) and the definition in France.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-28-54-commissie-ic631x.u88	Mr. Chair, Mr. Minister, people continue to complain that they receive untimely phone calls to sell products to them. This telephone marketing can sometimes even turn to repetitive harassment. There is currently a legal possibility of opt-out through listing "do not call me anymore" (www.ne-m-call-plus.be). This list operates on the basis of a charter to which Belgian companies have acceded. It is possible to file a complaint with the FPS Economy if the charter is not respected. If the company is based in the European Union, the European Consumer Centre may intervene. On the other hand, there are no real means of intervention against companies based outside the European Union. Citizens continue to receive Belgian advertising calls via numbers transiting abroad. The new European Data Protection Regulation was finally adopted by the European Parliament on 14 April 2016. Its provisions will apply directly to all 28 Member States of the European Union as from 25 May 2018. Under this new regulation, opt-in will be the rule for any unsolicited electronic communication. However, countries can continue to define for themselves which principle (opt-in or opt-out) is applicable for unsolicited marketing by telephone. Minister, the overall number of complaints appears to be decreasing, although it remains extremely high. Depending on the years, this varies from 3,735 in 2015 to 2,895 in 2016. How do you assess the effectiveness of the measures currently in place to protect Belgians from unwanted advertising calls? How do you explain the variations in the number of complaints within the same year? How many surveys have been opened by the Economy FPS (preferably broken down by year)? What determines whether an investigation is initiated or not? Would it not be possible to increase the conversion rate of complaints to investigations? Is the fact that the law does not talk anywhere about the frequency of downloading the list by companies a hindrance to reducing the number of unwanted calls? Are you aware of the extent of the problem of advertising from abroad? How many complaints has the SPF Economy referred to the European Consumer Centre? How many complaints have been filed for calls made from numbers from outside the European Union? How do these complaints end? What tools do you have at your disposal or are you planning to develop to ensure respect for citizens' desire not to be subjected to telephone marketing from abroad? Finally, what position will you take on telephone marketing when implementing the new European regulation on telephone marketing? Do you intend to introduce an exception to the opt-in for telephone calls?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-28-54-commissie-ic631x.u89	Mr de Lamotte, the list "Don't call me anymore" with more than a million Belgian telephone numbers is very successful. It is well known to telephone subscribers. On the other hand, it seems to me that its reputation among professionals involved in telephone marketing has yet to increase. Thus, the ASBL "Do Not Call Me", which has been approved for the management of the list, will soon launch a communication campaign. I believe that two major factors can explain the significant decrease in the number of complaints in 2016: - first, in mid-2015, the list "Don't call me anymore" became the single list, leading to substantial administrative simplification; - secondly, the control measures carried out by the Economic Inspectorate. The large variation from month to month is undoubtedly due to the fact that telephone marketing campaigns vary greatly in number and volume. The Economic Inspectorate organised a general survey from 1 October 2015 to 29 April 2016 among 70 Belgian companies active in the field of direct marketing by telephone. The main objective of these investigations was to inform the sector of its legal obligations in this area. On the basis of the reports received by the Inspectorate, 79 investigations were initiated and, in all cases, reports of infringements were drawn up. The selection of surveys is based on a risk analysis and a priority assessment by the Coordination Division of the Economic Inspectorate. In the area we are talking about, the threshold is already relatively low. Moreover, let us not forget that a large number of alerts do not contain the elements necessary to identify the mutual offender and that several alerts may relate to the same undertaking. The law does not refer to the download frequency, but it states that a request for listing must be active within five working days. The principle is a single activation blocking the relevant number which can no longer be called. In concrete terms, this means that the validity of a duplicate file in relation to the "do not call me anymore" list is very short. The point of contact does not allow the number of alerts from abroad to be determined and the Economic Inspectorate has not forwarded any dossiers to the European Consumer Centre. I am therefore unable to provide you with any clarification as to the extent of the phenomenon. It should be remembered that people who do direct marketing by telephone or on whose behalf it is made bear the burden of proof of compliance with their legal obligations. They remain responsible for the latter even if the execution has been delegated to a call center established in Belgium or abroad. Belgian law shall apply where the person responsible for the processing of personal data, namely the person who determines the purposes and means of processing, is established in Belgium. In other words, the processing of data in the context of a telephone call centre carried out by a foreign call centre on behalf of an advertiser established in Belgium will be subject to Belgian law. As far as your last question is concerned, I do not intend to change the current "opt-out" system for telephone calls because this tool is very simple for the consumer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-28-54-commissie-ic631x.u90	Minister, thank you for your answers. Could I have the text of the answers via your collaborators? Allow me not to agree with you on the last answer. We will have the opportunity to discuss it again in one way or another. The "opt-in" option for all telephone calls seems more relevant to me than listing.
