ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic706x.u1	Madam Minister, I do not, of course, have to tell you that meal cheques are still among the most widely distributed extralegal benefits. Of course, the exemption from RSZ or income tax is an attractive advantage and a way to give an employee a higher net wage without an disproportionate increase in labour costs. The meal check is basically intended to buy meals or ready-to-use food. There is also an analog system of ecocheques for the purchase of energy-efficient and energy-saving investments, a system that was created later. Likewise similar to the ecocheques, meal cheques are not always used as they were prescribed. In some places meal cheques are accepted without making a distinction according to the nature of the purchases. As a result, it seems that meal cheques can also be used to buy tobacco products. It is, of course, somewhat counterproductive that people receive tax rebates in order to maintain an addiction that is detrimental to their own health and health. This, of course, undermines the initiatives we are trying to take in the Committee on Health to discourage smoking. That is why I have the following questions for you. The law states that the meal cheques must bear the indication that they are only intended for the purchase of meals or ready-to-use foodstuffs. In what way does the legislator force traders to take the meal cheques effectively only for meals and ready-to-use foods? Who bears the ultimate responsibility, the publishers of the meal cheques or the traders themselves? Is the relevant legislation clear and sufficiently comprehensive? What data are recorded during a check and any infringement? Is there a registration or infringement of the sale of tobacco products? What sanctions are provided for in the event of infringements? Can the use of meal cheques for the purchase of tobacco products be charged as an aggravating element in the assessment of an infringement?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic706x.u2	Mrs Hufkens, meal cheques are dealt with in the Royal Decree of 28 November 1969 on social security, which I regret to say is out of my jurisdiction. So I must refer you to the Minister of Social Affairs. I do not want to get rid of it quickly, because I will answer you in part, but it is not within my competence, which I do not know whether you regret or welcome. Together with the Ministers for Social Affairs and the Ministers for Small and Medium-sized Enterprises, I am responsible for the recognition of the publishers of electronic meal cheques under the Royal Decree of 12 October 2010 laying down the conditions for recognition and recognition procedures for publishers of meal cheques in electronic form. One of the conditions for recognition is that meal cheques in electronic form may only be used for the payment of meals or for the purchase of ready-to-use food. Secondly, under these conditions of recognition, the publishers of electronic meal cheques have a responsibility for their proper use. I assume that the publishers of electronic meal cheques that have been recognised in the past have made the necessary arrangements to ensure compliance by retailers with the regulatory requirements. As a result of your question, I have instructed the services of the FPS Economy to analyse this point thoroughly. What facilities have they made? What exactly do the contractual provisions provide for? What action is envisaged when abuses are detected to a publisher? In that case, will he verify whether the trader concerned accepts the payment of other goods with meal cheques and, if so, will he terminate the contract with the trader concerned? Thirdly, the legislation provides for control powers for the Social Inspectorate, the supervisory inspectors of the Social Laws of the FOD WASO and the control agents of the Economic Inspectorate. In this context, the Economic Inspectorate has not received any complaints or notifications. It has therefore not yet launched any studies on the use of the electronic meal cheques. Fourthly, the regulation does not contain criminal sanctions in the event of a breach of the terms of the recognition decision. Should infringements be detected during the investigation, this will be reported to the Advisory and Control Committee, as provided for in the Royal Decree of 2010. This committee will advise the relevant ministers on giving a warning or withdrawing the recognition of the publisher of the electronic meal cheques.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic706x.u3	Minister, many questions, few answers. If I understand correctly, the paper meal cheques are a matter for Minister Borsus and your electronic meal cheques. My question was prompted by the fact that this is happening effectively. That's what happened with electronic meal cheques. In this respect, I can tell you that these offences are also carried out by means of electronic meal cheques. I think it is a very good idea that you instruct the FPS Economy to make an analysis of this. I have asked for figures on this, but I suspect they will not be there yet, so I will certainly come back to that after the recess.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic706x.u4	For the record, I am responsible for the recognition of the publishers of paper and electronic meal cheques. I am responsible for the Social Inspectorate, so I am also responsible for withdrawing recognition. If you have any specific complaints, you can give them to me. Then I will deliver them immediately to the department concerned, who will then be able to look further into them.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic706x.u5	I will certainly do so, because there are shops that violate the terms. I find it arbitrariness when one sees that in certain shops one has to pay 10 cents for a plastic bag, while in other shops one can just buy tobacco products with meal cheques. It can't be.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic706x.u6	Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, a reflection has been opened with the owners of shopping malls on the establishment of a fee-for-service access to their facilities. I quote an entrepreneur: "Many people go to shopping without making any purchase in a shop. For them, attending the mall is like a moment of relaxation. When you go to an amusement park, a zoo, a museum or visit an exhibition, you pay an entrance fee without eyebrowing. So if a shopping event offers a gathering of exclusive horeca boutiques and concepts, animations, pop-up stores, temporary exhibitions and other events, why can't we consider an entry fee? It should not be forgotten that all these services represent an experience, a good time". On the basis of the foregoing, I would like to ask you the following questions. Is the scenario of paying entry of shopping malls fully compatible with current economic legislation, but also in terms of consumer protection? Furthermore, can you tell us whether your services have been approached by economic or commercial operators who would be interested in implementing such a system in the course of their activities?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic706x.u7	Mr Calomne, it does not seem to me that economic and consumer protection legislation contains rules governing or prohibiting the scenario you have described. As for an economic approach, I believe that such a right of entry to shopping malls is not comparable to the right of entry to amusement parks or museums, where the consumer pays for a specific service. I don't think this idea makes any sense. What are we going to charge the citizen who strolls through a commercial street? Will physical commerce be made less attractive to e-commerce? I can at any rate tell you that neither my services nor myself have been approached on this subject. If you have any specific information, I would like to share it with the services to discuss the issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic706x.u8	Thank you, Minister, for your response.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic706x.u9	Deputy Prime Minister, the Autorité des services et marchés financiers (FSMA) has recently published on its website a warning regarding fraudulent offers of investment in physical goods such as rare earths or precious metals. These products are offered to the general public as alternative securities to savings products considered to be more traditional. These deceptions often take the form of direct calls or e-mails offering to invest in material assets. Internet advertising is also possible. There are many other shades in these offers. For example, the proposals for subscriptions allow for high yield prospects without mentioning the equally high risk of losses. Moreover, the market and prices announced are not clearly expressed. Finally, these proposals state that the property in question will be kept in foreign warehouses without any possibility for the investor to verify its actual existence. Unfortunately, there are many risks to investors. In most cases, they were misled about the value of the acquired property. They may also be unable to recover their initial bet. The only option is to lodge a complaint with the competent judicial authorities. What measures are being implemented to combat this phenomenon? Are there any avenues for improvement? Can the competent authorities in the area of commercial activities relating to physical goods also, alongside the FSMA, monitor such offers? Finally, have you launched any avenues of reflection to better warn the investor public about the risks to which it is exposed? Is consultation with traditional financial sector actors possible?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic706x.u10	Colleagues, Mr Calomne, trade in physical goods such as rare earths or precious metals is an economic activity. This activity is regulated by the Code of Economic Law and the Criminal Code. The judicial authorities are responsible for monitoring violations of economic law. However, where physical goods are presented to the public in the form of investment instruments, such alternative investment products may, under certain conditions, fall within the scope of the financial regulations which the FSMA monitors compliance with, and in particular under the Prospectus Law providing primarily for the mandatory disclosure in the form of a prospectus of adequate and complete information on the instruments offered and on issuers. FSMA has recently noted an increase in fraudulent offers of investment in various physical goods. As a result, she posted a warning on her website on May 8, 2017. In this warning, the FSMA provides information to help the investor recognize cases of fraud. It invites investors to report their suspicions of fraud either to the FSMA or to the competent judicial authorities. On the basis of the information provided to it, if the FSMA finds that a company or a person subject to its control is involved in a fraudulent offer or if there are indications of infringement of the financial regulations to which it must comply, the FSMA may take measures and, for example, forward the file to the Public Prosecutor's Office or publish a warning. Each year, FSMA publishes dozens of warnings about irregular calls to savings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic706x.u11	Minister, thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic706x.u12	Mr Kir is not present and therefore his questions lapse.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic706x.u13	Madam President, Minister, on 11 December 2015, the EU Directive on package travel and linked travel arrangements was published in the Official Journal of the European Union. It will replace the current package travel directive and should be transposed into national legislation by 1 January 2018. I asked you a few questions about this a few weeks ago. We are now reading that the transposition of the European directive will also lead to discussion in Germany. For example, the German authorities would have argued that the directive does not give the Member State sufficient room to make it a good law. Several members of the German majority parties would therefore consider voting against the transposition laws. Minister, are you also experiencing difficulties in reaching a preliminary draft within the limits of the directive? Are you consulting with your German colleagues on the problems that arise? Does a revision of the directives impose an obligation? What possibilities do you see here? What is the status of your preliminary draft?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic706x.u14	Madam President, Mr Janssen, the directive on package travel and linked travel arrangements is largely of a maximum nature. Member States therefore have little freedom in their transposition. I discussed the possible options with the stakeholders during the preparation of the draft law. The draft law was adopted by the Council of Ministers on 9 June 2017 and is currently being submitted to the Council of State for its opinion. That advice was expected around 14 June, but we have not yet received it. After that, every effort will be made to submit the draft to the Chamber as soon as possible, so that it can be discussed in detail. We will then have the opportunity to discuss in detail the content of this draft and, in accordance with the directive, the new law will enter into force on 1 July 2018. There are no problems with the legal transposition of the directive. However, its practical application will raise questions. That is why I have already instructed the administration to set up a working group to work with stakeholders on guidelines for the correct application of the law. I also asked for a leaflet to be prepared for the benefit of the consumer. I did not consult with my German colleague. The directive has been criticised from several quarters. Before deciding whether a review is necessary, I think it is necessary to proceed with an evaluation. Two evaluation reports are planned, namely one on online reservations, by 1 January 2019, and one on the application of the Directive in general, by 1 January 2021. About 90 officials of the Economic Inspectorate participate in the monitoring of the implementation of the law. I would like to stress that these officials are also monitoring compliance with other laws and not just doing so. In 2016, 31 minutes were made, mainly because the company did not have insolvency insurance. It is not possible to specify the number of minutes relating to the sale of travel over the Internet. I do not have this information. I did ask for this information, but I didn't get it; it may not exist. Compared to the current law, there is no general interpretation of the concept of "essential element of the agreement." The analysis shall be made on a case-by-case basis. In any case, there are no specific rules for booking over the internet. Compared to the new law, the aim is to clarify the concept of "main feature" through the guidelines.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic706x.u15	Minister, we will have to wait for the opinion of the Council of State. Perhaps we will see each other on this committee after the summer recess.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic706x.u16	Debates of the European Parliament Mr de Lamotte's 18814 was postponed. Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Gantois' 18900 was also postponed. At their request, Questions Nos 1 and 2 will be answered in writing. No 18903 by Mrs Detiège and No 18903 by Mrs Detiège Mrs Jadin converted 18953 into written questions. The next item is Question No 19008 by Mr Klaps.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic706x.u17	Madam President, Minister, with your permission I would like to turn some of my questions into written questions. If the Minister wants to give me the answer, we'll both save time. It concerns my questions Nos 19008 and 19009. My question No. 19113 is a combined question with question No. 19062 by Mrs Dierick. Mrs Dierick could not be here anyway, and she sent me a text, agreeing to convert her question into a written question. My questions Nos 19321 and 19705 can also be converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic706x.u18	Questions Nos 19008, 19009, 19321 and 19705 by Mr Klaps will be converted into written questions. This also applies to the combined questions Nos 19113 by Mr Klaps and 19062 by Mrs Dierick.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic706x.u19	Madam President, Minister, at Record Bank, the agents are still in a difficult situation as a result of the ING story. It is reported that some bank agents purchased a portfolio last year under pressure from the company. The payment of these portfolios was split into two parts and therefore has to be carried out again this year. This is a strange situation for those concerned, knowing that they will still have to pay for a portfolio which they will have to return as a result of the cancellation. The price of the portfolios was calculated on a long-term return, but of course these portfolios are not profitable, because just after the acquisition of the portfolio the whole story has come to the press and the customers are running out. It is therefore fearful for the agents concerned to wait and see if the buyer will also take over the portfolio. However, they still have to pay off the portfolios they have recently taken over. That is a very painful situation for these people. Mr. Secretary, do you think it's normal that Record Bank still charges the fees of the portfolios to the agents, even though they've already been canceled? Do you have any plans to remedy this situation?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic706x.u20	Madam President, Mr Klaps, we have talked about this before. We are working on a code of conduct for intermediaries in the banking sector. Clear agreements will be made on the relationship between them, for example on the compensation scheme for infrastructure costs incurred by independent bank agents upon termination. I will sign this code together with my colleague, Minister Borsus, Febelfin and the BZB in mid-July. In the concrete example of Record Bank, the parties concerned have informed me that ING Belgium, Record Bank and the BZB have negotiated a code of conduct on the integration of Record Bank into ING Belgium. It is important that an acceptable proposal is submitted to the majority of agents and that the bank recognises that additional compensation may be due subject to sufficient objective justification. Guarantees regarding the calculation of the portfolio are also provided for the agents involved in the integration story. I always want to help solve problems when you signal them to me, but there's an agreement between the parties. The case you mention is probably a concrete case, which then does not comply with the code of conduct. I find it difficult to intervene if a code of conduct is concluded between the three parties, and apparently one or more agents are not treated in accordance with the code of conduct. If you give me the information, I'd like to give you an indication, but that's the situation today.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic706x.u21	Minister, I fully understand the complexity of such dossiers. It is true that agreements have been made between the management and, among other things, the State Department to create a general framework. Hopefully, that framework will work for most of the agents. This will clearly not be the case for a number of reasons. Each file is, of course, individual. That's what self-employed people do. It's different for everyone. However, it would be a very good signal in the meantime from the management that it would freeze at least this kind of payment, that it would at least tell those with whom it wants to stop and with whom it still has to negotiate certain additional damages, that it would not, for the time being, debit the scheduled instalment due on 1 July, 1 August or 1 September, pending a final agreement. That is the minimum minimorum to be able to negotiate with these agents in a somewhat serene atmosphere, because the people who are in this situation are really standing with their backs against the wall. They have to ask a bank for a loan today to take over a portfolio that they know they can't use. You can understand that a bank will not like to finance such credit files either. That would be a good thing. I will continue to draw attention to the fact that we are trying to remedy this type of situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic706x.u22	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Lalieux's 19161 will be converted into a written question. Mr Hedebouw is not present and therefore his question No. 19181. Mrs Winckel asks that her question No. 1925-53 is postponed. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Van der Donkt's 19311 question was converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic706x.u23	Mr Lachaert is not present and therefore his question No. 19148.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic706x.u24	Madam Secretary, Test-Achats recently announced that they would subpoena the website Viagogo. This online ticket salesman has been under discussion for a long time, not only with us, but in every country where he is active. Since 2013, the Belgian law provides for a ban on organised resale of concert tickets. Consumers were found to suffer damage in many areas when ordering via the website. Either the tickets were sold at far too high prices, or the tickets purchased did not even enter the event. Despite the legislation introduced in 2013, the website Viagogo remains active in Belgium. Test-Aankoop now claims to have received about 500 complaints and has previously filed a group claim against a number of Dutch resale sites. Mr Minister, my questions are as follows. What initiatives are you taking to combat the commercial practices of resale websites? Do you have an explanation for how these websites remain active in Belgium, despite the legislation prohibiting the practice of resale of tickets? Are these practices being addressed at international level?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic706x.u25	Mr Janssen, the Economic Inspectorate made several minutes against foreign resale sites of concert tickets. For several popular resale sites, the European IMI procedure "International Market Information System" was followed because it concerns companies in the European Economic Area. The Member State concerned and the European Commission were notified in advance before Belgium was allowed to take its own measures. Afterwards, the Brussels investigating judge decided to proceed to the temporary blocking of a number of websites. Given that Viagogo is located in Switzerland, this procedure cannot be applied. That is why I have addressed myself directly to the competent Swiss Secretary of State. In a last exchange of letters last month, she confirmed to me that Viagogo was already fined in February by the competent canton court in Geneva for violating the rules on display of prices. However, Viagogo would continue the practices, so that its services now continue the investigation under the rules on unfair practices. A number of Dutch resale websites were also the subject of appeals to the court of commerce. Those procedures are still pending. In 2016 and 2017, the Economic Inspectorate issued several minutes against Viagogo's practices. The decision to prosecute in that file and/or to block the website is in the hands of the prosecutor of the King in Brussels. After all, the Economic Inspectorate itself cannot block such websites. About Viagogo since early 2017 and so far 150 notifications have been received by the Economic Inspectorate through its hotline. Test-Achats informed me last Monday that it has received 41 complaints since 7 February. The Economic Inspectorate has the mandate to continue to pay attention to the problem of illegal ticket sales this year. At European level, I am not aware of any initiatives to deal with the resale of concert tickets. However, other Member States become more sensitive to this problem and take national initiatives. For example, Italy criminalised ticket resale in December 2016, excluding occasional resale by consumers, which is similar to our regulations. In Ireland, a public consultation was held this year on ticket resale. In my opinion, the explanation why websites that do resale remain active is multi-faceted. First of all, the vendors are mostly active from abroad. Since these are information society services, the country of origin principle applies to supervision. This means that the law of the Member State in which the undertaking is established is applicable and, in principle, it belongs to the authorities of that Member State to act if their rules are infringed. Secondly, the Belgian legislation, which prohibits the resale of tickets, is a national law. Other Member States, such as the Netherlands, do not share this concern and consider that resale should be possible at significantly higher prices, insofar as this is transparent and without deception. Thirdly, since for other Member States resale at higher prices is not a problem, those Member States do not want to act on those grounds.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic706x.u26	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I hope you will keep in touch with your colleague in Switzerland to see what will be said there. I note that Europe is not united in this. Perhaps you could take an initiative in that regard.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic706x.u27	Questions Nos 19373 by Mr De Vriendt and 19376 by Mr Hellings have been converted into written questions and questions Nos 19443 and 19461 by Mr Flahaux. Mrs de Coster is not present for her question No. 19475, so that question expires.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic706x.u28	Madam President, Deputy Prime Minister, according to a press article, entrepreneurs and independents will now be able to update their business or business data more easily in the Banque-Carrefour des Entreprises (BCE). Indeed, the My Enterprise app, a new online tool developed at your request, allows you to modify data via PC, tablet or smartphone. We are talking about 250,000 companies that could be researched in the ECB every day. Clients are looking for information about a company they want to work with. It is also used by many public services. Correct and up-to-date data are important for the rapid processing of public missions, subsidies or tax files or for faster registration of company cars. A computer tool already existed, but it was only used by a small minority (35,000 active companies out of 1.7 million). Minister, to what extent can you ensure that the My Enterprise application will facilitate the updating of business data? In general, what is your vision? What are the expected outcomes? Are there any other data quality initiatives planned for the ECB? Is an implementation evaluation report planned? What resources have been allocated to this measure?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic706x.u29	Mr Kir, the My Enterprise application allows the company to register, adapt and stop a series of data for free in a more user-friendly and intuitive way than before. New features have been incorporated into the application. Thus, the company can transmit directly to the ECB's management department, via electronic means, requests for correction of incorrect data, which are derived from the initial loading of data. A new tool has also been created. It allows the company to know which service it must contact for the registration or adaptation of certain data relating to it. The advertising campaign around My Enterprise will stimulate its use. The more the data will be consulted, the more it can be verified by the company and thus be adapted in case of error. This application is a real asset for improving the quality of the ECB's data. I wish to be able to develop it and make it an indispensable instrument for the registration or adaptation by the company of the data which it will be empowered to manage itself, for example active associates. Several projects are under way to improve the quality of ECB data. The most important project is the KBO+. Its objectives are twofold. In a first phase, the process of depositing corporate documents will be simplified and fully digitised. The monitoring of the data entered in the ECB will be improved. In a second phase, the data taken up within the ECB will be enforceable against third parties and publications in the Annexes to the Belgian Monitor will be replaced by publications via the ECB's website. The ECB will then be able to position itself as the only authentic source of business data. Note that, as part of this project, the amounts paid by the company for the deposit of documents and registration by the enterprise counters within the ECB are also analysed. The cost of formalities should no longer be a brake on the entry and updating of data in the ECB. The second project concerns the recording and automatic modification of ECB data. A royal decree is being drafted. It is intended to enable the ECB's management services to automatically record missing data or to automatically modify incorrect data when the company has not completed its legal formalities. The third project concerns the interconnection of European business registers via the European BRIS platform. The ECB may be informed when the data of a European company with a branch in Belgium are changed. The system in place has recently become operational. A monitoring of the use of My Enterprise is underway. Its purpose is to collect data on the number of users and the actions they carry out. An evaluation report will be prepared on this basis at the end of next year, once the application is better known. The development of the application cost EUR 248 225. The budget for the communication campaign is EUR 120 000.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic706x.u30	I thank the minister for his full answer to my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic706x.u31	Minister, can Mr Klaps still ask his question?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic706x.u32	Okay, as a thank you for understanding that I need to get out of here a little faster today.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic706x.u33	Minister, in 2014, the figure of the tied agent in the Belgian legal order was introduced in Article 257, 5° of the Insurance Code. From a legal point of view, however, there seems to be uncertainty as to whether this is a concept or a full statute. In your opinion, is the figure of the related insurance agent a concept or a full statute and why? Are there other EU Member States that have incorporated this figure into their legislation?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic706x.u34	It is almost a philosophical, existential question that involves some complexity and in which we still have some work to do. The current legislative framework, the Insurance Act of 4 April 2014, distinguishes between two categories of insurance intermediaries, the agents and the brokers. Under this category of agents, a specific subcategory of tied agents was established, in particular agents contracted with one or more insurance undertakings and under the responsibility of the principal. The category of tied agents is therefore clearly defined by law. A specific liability regime for this particular category was also provided for. The sector is asking for this regime to be adapted and perhaps you too. In response to the question, I asked the FSMA to start discussions with the various stakeholders within the sector. On the basis of these talks that lasted for over a year, the FSMA has drawn up a draft and delivered me. This draft is currently the subject of a consultation in my cabinet. On the basis of this consultation, the texts will be finalised and submitted for discussion by the government. At European level, the situation is diverse, as is evident from the text of the IDD Insurance Distribution Directive, which does not comment on distribution models. Although the figure of tied agent also exists in other European Member States, comparisons should be handled with caution as the figure may enclose different distribution models. I would remind you that Belgium has a very large number of intermediaries, which has already attracted the attention of the IMF. The analysis of the situation in Belgium must therefore take into account the distribution model we know. Mr Klaps, when we have completed the consultation in my cabinet on the basis of that draft by the FSMA, I will bring this issue to the table of the Council of Ministers. It will then be possible to discuss the matter in detail.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic706x.u35	Thank you, Minister. I am glad that you are and will remain on the subject, because it is indeed complex. I only fear that the concept chosen in 2014 creates new problems and that certain types of intermediaries are more or less preventing or making it very difficult to work. It also has a very heavy impact on their commission revenue and portfolio value for a number of intermediaries. I therefore believe that we need to think again about this. In order to make things easier for you, I will present a legislative proposal this week which, in my view, can solve the problem in a much simpler way and ensure that everyone can continue to carry out his or her job, taking into account all the obligations and consumer protection.
