ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic764x.u1	Mr President, Minister, I know that I have a shared competence with this question. I have asked this question several times and I have been referred to several times. My colleague Senesael has once charged that too. That is why I have now chosen a different approach. The recommendations adopted by the special parliamentary committee last year, which were delivered unanimously to the government, were split up according to the competence. In that connection, Minister, I have the following specific questions for you. What attitude does Belgium take towards the European Commission with regard to whether or not to tighten emission standards? Do you think that a standard on diesel soot emissions should be introduced very quickly at European level? If so, what will the government do? What specific measures have you taken with regard to the recommendations of the dieselgate committee which fall within your competence? I have listed these recommendations in my written question, but I will not read them all. This question has been for some time and I can tell you that I have asked the same question with the respective powers of the ministers Bellot, Marghem and De Block. I am still waiting for a commitment to a coordinated follow-up committee in the autumn.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic764x.u2	Mrs. Dedry, thank you for your short but important question. Minister, I give you the floor for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic764x.u3	Mr President, Mrs Dedry, this is certainly an important question. For one piece, I will disappoint you and for one piece, I hope, meet you. Although you raise in your question how you are sometimes the subject of a ping-pong game, I am sorry to inform you that the competence for product standards for cars belongs to the Environment and that other ministers are responsible for that. I'm sure you'll appreciate that part of my answer a little less. I hope you appreciate the second part of my answer. Following the recommendations made by the special parliamentary committee Dieselgate, the Prime Minister delivered a complete follow-up table. He has already answered that question in writing. 208 by Mr Nollet. That is the state of affairs of 23 February; you are right in that. The Prime Minister is now working on an update of that table. However, on this point I hope you will respond with some kindness, because of the changes that have taken place since then and which fall within my competence, I will present to you a table updated until 31 October. With regard to those parts which do not fall within my competence, I can confirm that the Prime Minister is working very hard on this. A full table will be available as soon as possible. As far as my competence is concerned, therefore, you have an update, which I will also hand over to the secretary of the committee, so that you can check it out.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic764x.u4	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I would just like to add that I have really been given the undertaking that there will be a coordinated follow-up committee from the government. Among other things, your fellow Members, Mr Marghem and Mr De Block, have promised this for this autumn. Autumn's almost over, we're almost in winter. I hope that you will support that follow-up committee and that it will be there soon.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic764x.u5	Mr President, Minister, here I am again with my questions, this time because the lack of clarity and legal uncertainty regarding the compulsory insurance of electric bicycles with and without a garage button continues. Let me give you an overview of the facts that have contributed to this lack of clarity. It actually started in the Business Commission on 17 January last. Mr Van Den Bergh and I asked an oral question about the insurance obligation for electric bicycles with a garage button. In your reply, you said: 'I will draw up an implementation KB for this, after the WAM law is passed in Parliament, stating that the garage button will not lead to entry into the category of motor vehicles'. With this measure, the owners of electric bicycles with a garage button should therefore not take out mandatory BA car insurance. The Business Commission of 10 May 2017 discussed the draft law amending the law of 21 November 1989 on compulsory motor vehicle liability insurance. During that discussion, you repeat that electric bicycles equipped with step support, the so-called walk assist, are not covered by the law's field of application, unlike bicycles with a boost, with which the cyclist can move for a while without having to pedal. In response to a converted written question concerning the uncertainty with regard to the insurance obligation for propulsion equipment, you reply: "If the speed pedal is operated only by means of pedal or start-up support, there is no obligation to take BA car insurance." You refer to the website of the FPS Economy, which contains two information pages on which vehicles are subject to the BA insurance obligation for cars. The website of the FPS Economy to which you referred, in contrast to your answer, states: "The bicycle with stair support is not subject to compulsory car insurance." The bike with start-up support is subject to car insurance BA. In addition, the website states: "The same applies when the bike has a garage support, so that a distance of several meters can be driven without stairs." The information distributed at different times through different channels therefore does not appear to be so unambiguous. There remains uncertainty about whether or not to have a garage button and there is also confusion between the concepts of step-, kick- and start-up support. However, this confusion can cause major problems. After all, if you are not insured correctly, one or more of the following penalties may be imposed: a fine of EUR 100 to EUR 1 000; a prison sentence of eight days to six months; the temporary revocation of the right to drive a motor vehicle from eight days to five years; or final forfeiture of the vehicle. Moreover, the driver of an uninsured vehicle must compensate the victim in the event of a damage. Finally, this uncertainty has a direct impact on the principle of the weak road user. Anyone who has to take BA car insurance is regarded as a driver of a motor vehicle and is therefore no longer a weak road user. Mr Minister, given the importance of a quick solution to these uncertainties, I would like to ask you the following. Can you clarify which insurance drivers of an electric bicycle, with or without a garage button, should take on? Has the implementation plan already been drawn up to determine which means of transport are covered by the definition of motor vehicles? Have you included a provision, as promised, that the garage button will not lead to the category of motor vehicles? Do you think that the definitions of step, step and take-off support should be legally anchored in order to eliminate the uncertainty about this?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic764x.u6	Mr President, I think the answers in the various committees are clear, otherwise I would not have given them. Mr Klaps, it is true that many pertinent questions have been asked and can be asked. The legislation is not in line with the latest techniques, certainly not for the electric bicycle, but also for other electric propulsion equipment. The WAM insurance did not give full clarity. I want to do that as soon as possible. I have also announced that I will make a royal decision to take into account all the techniques currently in place in the sector and to ask questions about compulsory insurance of one or the other. Where are we with this work now? We have set up a working group to compare it with all the experts and with the industry. There are also some legal discussions that need to be clarified, but it is my ambition to have a draft royal decision ready by the end of this year. Some of the voices say I have to change the law, too. This too must be clarified as quickly as possible, both legally and technically. I hope that by the end of the year, with the approval of that royal decree, I will have resolved all the uncertainties and questions concerning both the garage button and the speed of electric bicycles, of which there are several categories. With regard to the problem of the garage button, it is my philosophy that we should have a coherent policy, taking account of the other motor vehicles. One of the elements to distinguish is whether or not there is a step support. Can the bike move autonomously, by mechanical force, or is there always a need for stair support? That's a first distinction. The second distinction is the speed that can be achieved. In order to avoid imposing unnecessary obligations, discussions are under way, such as the garage button. For the sake of clarity, it is a button attached to the electric bike that allows you to put the bike in the garage in an autonomous way, without pedal support, or move on an inclined stretch of road without pedalling yourself. It is only on the basis of the presence of that garage button that there is, of course, no obligation to have insurance. Those are the chalk lines. I already gave you those chalk lines. The most important thing, of course, is that this is properly incorporated into a royal decree and that the royal decree is published so that all questions can be answered. That's what I'm trying to do. I've already communicated on that so everyone knows which direction it's headed. I hope that the discussion with the experts will be concluded in the near future.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic764x.u7	Mr Minister, I can see that it is very complex. Contrary to some reassuring messages, this has not yet been cleared up. Today we are still in legal uncertainty. I am glad that by the end of this year we will not be able to resolve that quickly. Due to the increase in the number of bicycles there are unfortunately more accidents with bicycles, throughout the country. It would not be right for us to end up in endless legal discussions about liability and insurance obligations. That is why I support your intention to resolve this as quickly as possible, without unnecessary obligations for consumers. I call on you to do so as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic764x.u8	Question No 19710 by Mrs Winckel is transformed into a written question. Questions Nos 19725, 19794 and 19791 by Mrs Detiège have been postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic764x.u9	Mr Minister, the consumer association Test-Achats has decided to tackle in concrete terms the no-show clause of the airlines, which is to refuse boarding to passengers who have not used part of their combined ticket - for example train and aircraft. The clause in question states that the ticket is no longer valid for the rest of the journey as soon as the previous stage has not taken place, for example because the flight was missed, while the passenger paid for the entire journey. The company therefore arrogates the right to resell its seat on the next flight to a passenger on a waiting list without refunding the original passenger. This clause is also denounced by a number of European consumer protection organisations, which consider it to be abusive. Mr Minister, does the current Belgian regulation allow consumers to defend themselves against the no-show clause that is clearly unfavourable to them? If not, what steps could be taken to remove this type of clause? In advance, thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic764x.u10	Mrs Grovonius, following a legal action to prohibit these no-show clauses, the Liège Court of Appeal, in its judgment of 30 January 2014, considered that the no-show clauses were not abusive if the carrier made it clear that the order of the tickets was an essential part of the contract and that the price was determined on that basis. As the aviation sector has an international dimension by definition, the general conditions of airlines have been examined at European level by the Consumer Protection Cooperation Network (CPC), which brings together the consumer protection supervisory authorities. In February 2016, the CPC established a set of minimum criteria to be met by contractual conditions, including the no-show clauses. In any event, the passenger must be entitled to his/her subsequent flight once he/she has informed the airline within a reasonable period of time that he/she will not be able to take the previous flight. In addition, the supplement which may be taken into account may not exceed the normal price of the journey. This consultation at European level has led to the conclusion that these clauses are not unlawful as long as they satisfy the necessary transparency. Subsequently, the Economic Inspectorate asked the Belgian airlines to adapt. Following the consultation, adjustments to the no-show clauses will be made to this effect. It'll be done soon. The Economic Inspectorate has pointed out that the mere adaptation of contractual clauses is not sufficient. The consumer must also receive clear and understandable information on this part of his contract. As mentioned earlier, the air sector is by definition an international sector. We must therefore remain cautious in imposing further restrictions on Belgian airlines. In a European context, this can certainly be negotiable. It is now important to ensure that the principles set by companies within the network are respected.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic764x.u11	Minister, thank you. As far as I am concerned, I believe that information to consumers is not yet sufficiently clear. There are still too many people who find themselves faced with fait accompli and thus in problematic situations. I would like, as far as possible and without imposing on Belgian companies to go beyond what is imposed on them by European rules, that when it comes to informing consumers, when tickets are purchased, it can be mentioned that they are linked. When a passenger misses his or her return flight, he or she must be advised of the risk that his or her return flight will be cancelled. It seems to me that real progress could be made in the area of communication. I don't know how you can, in one way or another, encourage airlines to make more effort, but it's worth it. Consumer associations are often asked to deal with such problems. It seems to me that as a minister it is up to you to act within this framework.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic764x.u12	Question No 20219 by Mr. Van der Donckt, who was attached, is transformed into a written question at his request.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic764x.u13	Mrs. Pas is not here. As a result, her question No. 20198 deleted. Questions Nos 20284 and 20583 by Mrs Detiège have been postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic764x.u14	Mr. Secretary, here I am again. Following my previous questions to you, I thought that a definitive solution had been found to the problem with Belfius concerning the reimbursement of negative interest rates on residential loans. There is nothing less true, however. Belfius still does not intend to repay the negative interest. What Belfius proposes to customers who first contact themselves is merely a friendly settlement for a limited period of time. After that period, the Belfius customers concerned should reapply if the interest rate remains negative. In other words, Belfius still fails to honour her own contract. In addition, customers should sign that they will not transmit information to third parties. If they do, they're gonna miss the friendly settlement. I have the following questions. Have you taken note of the scheme proposed by Belfius to its customers? Do you agree with me that Belfius is once again not offering a final solution to its customers involved? What is your opinion on the confidentiality clause contained in Belfius' proposal? Have you had a new consultation with Belfius on this matter, or is that planned?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic764x.u15	Mr Klaps, this is a dossier that has been going on for some time. As a result of one of your previous questions, we have, so to speak, called upon Belfius to resolve this problem and to point out that this was also in their own interest. We were assured at that time that this would happen. I replied to one of your questions. Belfius would and will meet consumers. These are eligible consumers who have also asked a question about them. We have no further contacts with Belfius on the concrete proposals made to the various customers. I understand this is a confidential discussion. The solution may vary from client to client. As a competent minister, I once again encouraged Belfius to take action in this respect, unlike previous positions of the same bank. I have also underlined, in that I share your opinion, that the customer is entitled to a concession. This was clearly given to the bank. It is also up to the bank to look at this with the customer tailor-made and to reach an agreement. If you ask or insist, I would like to contact Belfius to see what is going on with this and to get more information on it.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic764x.u16	Minister, I am surprised at the answer. You say that Belfius has kept you on the leash for months. They said they're gonna fix it. I've shown you it hasn't been solved. The television news even showed documents asking for confidentiality clauses, which propose unique solutions with a confidentiality clause in which there is talk of a concession. These people should not be compensated, Mr Peeters. Those people need to get the execution of their contract. These are contracts that Belfius himself drew up. All the customers ask for is the fulfilment of their contract. Whether it be Ryanair or other companies, you always insist that the consumer is protected and that his rights are respected by the company. This isn't where that manifesto happens. I asked you on 11 September whether there was a new consultation with Belfius. Now you say: if you wish, I will speak to Belfius again. Of course, I would like you to speak to Belfius again. This cannot be done, Minister. They must keep their contracts and not wait for customers who are smart and assertive enough to go to the window and demand that something happens. They will then be given a document that is valid for a year and they will have to sign a confidentiality clause that is not based on anything. The customers who do not want that, the people who do not read the newspaper, those who do not calculate it themselves, do not get their rights. I don't think this is possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic764x.u17	Mr President, this is a less controversial question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic764x.u18	It's your right. I have no problem with the content of your questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic764x.u19	Minister, Rabobank Netherlands will introduce a name check from this month on for clients who make a transfer via IBAN. They do so in order to prevent wrong transfers and fraud. A study by Dutch banks shows that approximately 1 300 reports of incorrect transfers are made each month. Seventy-five percent of these notifications concern an error by using old account numbers or a mistake with the address book. The audit function will check the name and warn the client if it is not part of the completed account number. Afterwards, the client himself is responsible for what he or she does with this information. Mostly correct names with a spelling error, for example, would be automatically improved by the control function. Other Dutch banks are expected to follow soon. Of course, I am always looking forward to innovation in the sector. So I wanted to hear what that's like with us. How many reports of wrong transfers are received each month by Belgian banks? Are there plans to introduce the IBAN name check in Belgium? Are there any changes to the privacy laws needed, should this happen?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic764x.u20	Mr President, this is a somewhat more informative question. There are, thank God. Neither my administration nor Febelfin has comprehensive figures on reports of incorrect transfers or transfers. In the Netherlands, the high number of problems is largely due to the faster allocation of a closed account number to a new client. As a result, the risk of an incorrect transfer is much greater and therefore finding a solution was more acute than in Belgium. Our Belgian system has an automated control of the IBAN number itself. If a digit would have been entered by mistake, an error message will appear. This also applies to the completion of the structured communication in Belgium. Thus, several control elements have already been introduced in order to avoid an incorrect transfer. The problems that exist in Belgium are therefore mainly due to invoicing fraud. There are therefore several initiatives on this subject, including the name check. Moreover, there is also very good cooperation between the banking sector and the various parties involved, such as the FPS Economy and consumer organisations, in order to make citizens and businesses as aware of invoice fraud as possible. To this end, campaigns were launched with useful tips to prevent fraud. The FPS Economy has also established a special hotline for this purpose. In 2016, there were 187 reports of invoice fraud. A notification is automatically forwarded to the police, so that it can also investigate the notification. As far as privacy law is concerned, my colleague Philippe De Backer is competent.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic764x.u21	Thank you, Minister, for the answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic764x.u22	Mr Minister, at the plenary session on 5 October I asked you a number of questions about the cancellation of hundreds of flights by Ryanair and, in particular, about the information to the consumer about this. In response to my previous questions, you proposed initiatives in three areas. In particular, you would take the initiative to bring an action for a strike before the court of commerce. In addition, on the basis of the information provided by the Economic Inspectorate, a report would be sent to the court. Finally, the European Commission would have called on Ryanair to make the necessary adjustments before 6 October. I have the following questions. Was the action for strike initiated? If so, what was the court's verdict? Do you have a look at the steps the parquet takes on the basis of the pv sent to him? Did Ryanair respond to the European Commission's call to act before 6 October?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic764x.u23	Mr Janssen, my cabinet discussed the Ryanair file during a contact with Test-Achats. The exact number of cancellations is unknown to me, but according to figures that also appeared in the media, there are huge numbers. I have instructed the Economic Inspectorate to verify that the cancellations by Ryanair comply with the rules of the Code of Economic Law on unfair practices. After the investigation, a projustitia was prepared and delivered to the public prosecutor. As you know, the investigation is classified. I don't have access to that myself. I don't know where the parole board took the action either. I've also decided to file a claim for strike. Service was given on Friday 13 October. The case will normally be opened on 9 November 2017. I do not, of course, see the further timing of this procedure. However, there will be no ruling on 9 or 10 November. I'm sure there'll be some time. I also understand that Ryanair replied to the European Commission. That reply included a number of issues that were also delivered to the cabinet. You have also read in the media that the legislation would be applied, that according to Ryanair there were no immediate major problems and that there would be full alignment with European and other legislation.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic764x.u24	Thank you for your reply, Minister. We shall await the outcome of the introduction on 9 November. We hear contradictory reports about the action taken by Ryanair in response to the European Commission's questions. I'll keep following it up. If the court were to rule in one of the coming months, I'll come back to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic764x.u25	Mr President, Minister, as you know, tricycloacetone triperoxide - in English, TATP - is a chemical that has become infamous since it has been used as a basis for the manufacture of several bombs used in the Paris and Brussels attacks. Last September, 100 kg of this TATP was discovered during the search of the terrorist cell responsible for the attacks in Barcelona and in a clandestine laboratory in Paris, still as part of investigations into terrorist-related cases. This explosive is therefore very popular with jihadist groups because it consists of ingredients that can easily be found in the trade. TATP is made from oxygenated water (hydrogen peroxide), acetone and a catalyst such as nitric acid or sulphuric acid. All these products are also covered by a Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council of 15 January 2013 which either prohibits their sale to the general public or requests that the buyer be identified. In practical terms, this regulation, dealing with the marketing and use of explosives precursors, prohibits the provision to the general public of a range of substances that may be used in a diversion to illicit explosives. This European Regulation, which entered into force in September 2016 in Belgium, provides in fact for three measures: - prohibition of the sale of certain substances to the general public - such as oxygenated water or hydrogen peroxide; - the obligation to identify the buyer of certain other products which remain marketable - such as acetone; - the obligation to create a contact point where all suspicious transactions must be reported. Since September 2016, just over a year after the regulation came into force in Belgium, how many people have identified themselves to buy chemicals that require identification? How many cases have been reported as suspects through the point of contact that was to be created? What follow-up is given to cases identified as suspects through the contact point? Furthermore, do you intend to take more drastic measures with regard to the sale to the general public of certain components of TATP? It is clear that it remains very easy for those who have bad intentions to realize them. Are you considering making access to these components even more stringent?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic764x.u26	Mr President, Mr Vanden Burre, with regard to your first two questions, as regards the handling of alerts at the national point of contact, I invite you to address the Minister of the Interior, since this is an exclusive competence of the police. I don't have any numbers. I can ask the Minister of the Interior, but it's up to you to decide if you want to question him directly. As far as your third question is concerned, you know very well that lists of precursors and sales restrictions are laid down in a European regulation. These lists are drawn up by experts. Several times a year, an ad hoc committee for this regulation meets. Taking into account the experience of the field, the Committee shall issue provisions to adapt the lists of precursors and their restrictions. I have noted your question and your suggestion to expand these lists. I will submit your proposal to our experts for discussion in this ad hoc committee, and perhaps expand the products or precursors as you ask.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic764x.u27	Minister, thank you. I will question Minister Jambon since I also sit on the Committee on the Interior. On the third question, there were two things: to enlarge the list - you answered; but for the products that are already on the list, one could still complicate access to it. That would be another possibility.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic764x.u28	Minister, the new mortgage credit regulations came into force on April 1. The new rules of the law underline the transposition into Belgian law of a European directive aimed at optimising the professionalism of market participants, in particular intermediaries and creditors, in order to protect policyholders as best as possible. The new law introduces a standardized information sheet so that consumers can compare the credit conditions of different lenders. And like consumer credit, an overall effective annual rate will apply to mortgages so that credit charges can be easily compared. Yet, a recent Test-Achats survey, released on August 30, reveals that the new law is not efficient. The organisation looked at the behaviour of five major credit institutions: Argenta, BNP Paribas Fortis, Belfius, ING and KBC. According to the consumer organisation, lenders can too easily act as they please, and consumer information is often misleading. In a letter addressed to you, Test-Achats points to the problematic behaviors of certain collaborators of the above-mentioned organizations. The organisation observed that consumers cannot always rely on the overall effective annual rate communicated to them. For example, during the survey, a bank performed an annual premium simulation based on a 38-year-old, while the credit applicant was 48 years old. The survey reveals other examples, of which you may have read. As for the standardized fact sheet, none of the investigators received it from the outset on his first visit. Various proposals have been forwarded by Test-Achats to your firm. Let me ask you the following questions. What is your reaction to reading this information? Did you, through other channels, become aware of these behaviors that do not fully respect the terms of the new law? Following the investigation and the proposals of Test-Achats, are you considering a revision of the law or putting in place additional measures to address the problems highlighted?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic764x.u29	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Vanden Burre, by letter of 29 August, Test-Achats informed me of a survey she had carried out with lenders about the information they provided to credit applicants. It indicated that, with some lenders, the ESIS document had not been or had been submitted too late, and that the overall annual rate (AGR) was insufficiently representative. On 18 September I had a joint consultation with Test-Achats and Febelfin during which I made it clear that the objective of the mortgage credit directive is to allow consumers to compare more easily when they want to conclude a contract. It is therefore important for the latter to have all relevant information before signing a credit agreement. I also stressed that the existing rules must be respected collectively. I have instructed the administration to carry out checks. In October, the Economic Inspectorate began a general investigation into compliance with mortgage credit regulations. A total of about 150 checks will be carried out. To date, 13% of the planned checks have been carried out. The checks shall be carried out with the brokers and related agents. The emphasis is on the pre-contractual phase. Results are expected by summer 2018. In the meantime, I also asked the sector to find a solution to the problems mentioned by Test-Achats. In this context, the Union Professionnel du Crédit (UPC) informed me that it has already given its guidelines to its financial intermediaries on the interpretation of the law on mortgage credit. It calls for particular attention to be paid to the transmission of the ESIS and to the calculation of the TAEG. It must be avoided as far as possible that a first TAEG is delivered late in the credit application process, whether or not together with the credit offer. It is also communicated that financial intermediaries should distinguish between a simple simulation, without concrete details, and a real credit request on the basis of the appropriate form. In this regard, there can be no misunderstanding for the credit candidate. Finally, Mr Vanden Burre, I have taken many other steps to clarify the situation. I have also commissioned an inquiry from the Economic Inspectorate, which I hope the conclusions will be positive. Otherwise, I will undertake new actions to ensure that the law is respected by banks and financial intermediaries.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic764x.u30	Thank you, Minister, for your detailed answer. You have undertaken consultations and ordered certain measures, including the organization of inspections. It was important to do so. That was what led the debate when we passed this law, because we know the lack of clarity with regard to the consumer in a process as important as the purchase of real estate through mortgage credit. We will come back to the subject, because it affects a great deal of our fellow citizens. I take note of all the actions you have communicated to us. I will read carefully the answer you gave us. Anyway, thank you for your follow-up.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic764x.u31	Debates of the European Parliament Question No 205, by Mrs Detiège Mr Van der Donkt's 20599 were postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic764x.u32	Minister, I have heard from De Standaard that you are working on a number of measures to combat illegal downloading of films and music, among other things. My questions are as follows. What measures do you have in preparation to tackle illegal download? Which partners do you consult for the design of these measures? At what time do you expect to submit these measures to Parliament?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic764x.u33	Minister, I will be a little longer than my colleague Janssen. The Dutch language's brevity is impressive.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic764x.u34	That's your right.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic764x.u35	Deputy Prime Minister, one in five Belgians would regularly use non-commercial download sites and thus enjoy the benefits of access to culture that net neutrality guarantees so far. Some press articles, including that of the Standaard mentioned by Mr Janssen, announce that you would like to put in place measures quickly to impede access to the so-called illegal download sites. By this you would like to protect the rights of authors of cultural content available free of charge online. You want to put in place a method that should spot pirate sites faster and block them as well as their mirror sites. You also want to draw up a blacklist of these same blocked sites and ensure that the browsers are redirected to a legal and commercial alternative. From all this, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, come my questions. Could you tell me more about your plan? Is it only a matter of setting up a service for the closure or inaccessibility of the sites concerned or is it a matter of resuming the principle of graduated response, as is practiced in France with the Hadopi law and, as a result, engaging the responsibility of the users themselves? How do you envisage working with Internet providers active in our country? How will the referral to so-called legal download sites be done technically? On what criteria could a legal download site benefit from this form of free advertising offered by the public authorities? Finally, could you clarify how you intend to guarantee the privacy of the clients of Belgian ISPs by providing them with free navigation if you restrict access to certain sites by creating a tool capable of closing a site or making it inaccessible? Do you think that this method is compatible with the principle of net neutrality, voted a few years ago in the House?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic764x.u36	Ladies and gentlemen, the measures I am working on are in line with the opinion on the enforcement of copyright and related rights on the Internet, issued by the Intellectual Property Council on 29 June 2012. In other words, the aim is not to create an authority of the Hadopi type in France or to set up a system of graduated answers or to seek to engage the responsibility of the Internet users. Rather, my project is moving towards a more effective solicitation of certain Internet intermediaries in the fight against sites and content that infringe on copyright and related rights. I am also working on a specific strike claim and a follow-up mechanism that should allow efficient and permanent blocking of copyright-infringement websites after a judicial decision. The measures in question are still to be submitted to government partners and stakeholders through the Intellectual Property Council. It is therefore premature to comment on a deadline, but I hope to be able to present these measures to you, Parliament, after an extensive consultation at the beginning of 2018. The measures under development do not entail any derogation from the rules governing the protection of the privacy of Internet users. My project is also directed against content which, in one way or another, infringes copyright and related rights. To my knowledge, the fight against illegal content and the posting of such content is certainly not an infringement of the principles of net neutrality. The measures envisaged do not call into question this principle.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic764x.u37	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. You set out a number of points that you would like to make in these proposals. We look forward to seeing what the end result will be in early 2018.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic764x.u38	Deputy Prime Minister, there is an extremely interesting, rather thick, May 2015 report from the European Commission – and not from the Ecolo study service – which contains a series of findings on the impact of illegal downloading. This is a study on the movement between so-called illegal consumption and legal consumption. There is no link, no substitution of legal consumption by illegal consumption. I think we will have the opportunity, when you introduce your bills, to further investigate the results of this study. This is a serious study, a university study carried out by the European Commission. To legislate to prevent access to so-called illegal sites is not intended to target legal sites and improve copyright. It has no impact. If we have to legislate, it's to answer a problem. Now, I don't think there's any here. On the other hand, I understand that you do not want to touch the netizens, but only the sites. That's good news. And I also hear that you do not want to follow the wrong example set by France, which has taken a step that is not content to be extremely negative for privacy is totally ineffective. You're talking about illegal content. It is clear that for a jihadist site or site that promotes hatred or terrorism, the police must take appropriate action. Here, we talk about sites that make culture available. These are two fundamentally different things. All of this promises us great debate when we discuss your bill. As for us, we will be very careful to ensure that culture remains accessible and that privacy is guaranteed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic764x.u39	Question No 20667 by Mrs Gerkens is transformed into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Detiège's 20796 was postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic764x.u40	Mr Minister, my question dates back to July and there may have been an update in the meantime. The fact that she hasn't been discussed is also my fault, because I've already postponed them once. The European Parliament's Committee on the Internal Market and Consumer Protection adopted some amendments to the Copyright Directive a few months ago. Two outstanding issues raise questions. First of all, there is the so-called 'link tax', Article 11 of the text. It is, of course, the opponents who call that a "left tax." In practice, the change means that parties such as Google and Facebook are no longer allowed to display the title and the first sentence or phrases of the content of a source page as a preview of an article linked to, without the issuer's permission and thus the payment of a license. So it is assumed that people often have enough to use the first sentences, no longer need the rest of the article and therefore will not pay for it, let alone the advertisers pay for it. Secondly, there is the proposal to amend copyright in the music industry, Article 13. Websites sharing user videos should have filters to prevent videos or music containing copyrighted material. I have the following simple and concise question on this subject, with a hopefully less concise answer. What is the Belgian position on the European proposals for the amendment of copyright? What position does Belgium take in the European Council?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic764x.u41	It is clear that copyright is also respected on the Internet. For example, if a newspaper article subject to copyright is reproduced, the rightholder's consent is required. Where there is no reproduction or where there is an exception, no consent is required. As regards Article 11 of the proposed Directive, Belgium is therefore not in favour of the introduction of a new neighbouring right for press publishers. However, it may be possible to consider a presumption of representation when the publisher is suspected to represent the author, without having to prove it on an individual basis. In this way, enforcement of existing copyright is facilitated. Belgium supports the objectives of Article 13 to improve the control of right holders on the dissemination of their works online and, on the other hand, to contribute to a fairer remuneration of right holders in exchange for the use of their works. However, Rule 13, as proposed by the committee, raises several questions and requires further clarification of the scope and measures proposed. The main concerns are a clear definition of the services to be regulated, the proportionality of the proposed measures and the guarantee of fundamental freedoms, such as the right to freedom of expression. My cabinet closely follows up the file together with the FPS Economy and the permanent representation. We will defend the positions I have just expressed in the various working groups.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic764x.u42	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I share your view that the full reproduction of copyrighted work cannot be done without permission, even on the Internet. That's obvious. We have already confirmed that enough. I would also like to thank you for your statement that you are not in favour of a related right for publishers in this area. That's very good, too. I do notice some space when you talk about a publisher representing an author. The question is, then, what is an allowed exception? Is a quote of two sentences from an article of a full page an allowed exception? Intuitively one would think so, but that is the core of the discussion in the story. That is where I am missing a clear, concrete position. You referred to proportionality. That is indeed the key element, but I would have liked to have heard from you your opinion on this proportionality. To what extent do you find a quote of two sentences from a text of a page proportional?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic764x.u43	Mr Minister, SABAM regularly sends a number of auditors who used to be self-employed, today they are employed to monitor the quality of their jobs to carry out checks and establish copyright violations. Proper monitoring of copyright is indeed important, but it seems to me that this sort of controller has already gone a long way along the path of reasonableness. There has recently been an example in the media of a company charged an immediate collection of 443 euros, because a worker through the speaker in her mobile phone, not really the most qualitative stereo installation imaginable, let a number of colleagues listen to music. The inspector who was present for a check of watch music immediately wrote an invoice, without any human explanation. How do you evaluate that incident with SABAM? Will you appeal to the company, as it is once again a dent in the already low opinion of SABAM's public opinion and therefore also of the power that the government grants to that private organization for controlling copyrights? The government supervises this through the Audit Board. You have a certain authority in that regard. How many such direct collections do the auditors write each year? What guidelines does SABAM apply to proceed with such direct collection? Apart from the letter of the law, and no one puts the prohibition of public communication without the author's consent in question, wouldn't it make more sense to put priority on warning and education on copyright in the event of a first infringement? When one sets up a music with one's mobile phone, one is usually unaware that they are making a mistake. Of course, a lot of people don't realize that. To what extent do you see the possibility, by analogy with the approach to piracy, of first imposing a warning in the event of such an unconscious infringement of copyright rather than going straight to a direct collection? You know foreign examples as three strikes out. We also have a warning system first. What legal possibilities do you have or could you impose, whether or not through the control committee of management companies? What options do you have via soft law or consultation? You also see the people of SABAM on your cabinet from time to time, I presume.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic764x.u44	Mr Dedecker, according to the information received from SABAM's audit authority, the company concerned did not respond to SABAM's request to provide the necessary information under the Unison Agreement. That agreement is about music in the workplace. Subsequently, an sworn representative of SABAM carried out an audit on 24 May 2017. During that check, the inspector made the necessary findings. Subsequently, the company concerned received an invoice including an increase due to the non-declaration and the cost of the verification visit. I have asked the inspection services to examine the specific dossier in response to your question before I comment on the method used. I have not yet received a report from the inspection services, but I think it is a good thing that I asked the inspection services to look at the file first. Further steps will be taken on the basis of the investigation. Then I can also comment on the dossier. As regards controls in the companies, the management companies concerned, SABAM and Simim, distinguish between companies declaring that they do not use music and companies not responding to the mailing. In total, 1 871 controls were carried out at such companies in 2016. In 156 cases, it was found that a public communication of protected works would have taken place. The management companies have a high degree of autonomy in determining how they act against the unlawful use of their repertoire. In the present case, a mailing was first sent to the companies concerned informing them about the use of music in the company. It was only after that that a check took place. That's SABAM's MO. A request for information shall first be sent before SABAM carries out checks and any increases due to non-declaration. It is not a direct answer to your question, but I have called on management companies to hear from them, in the light of the audit report, how much money has been parked there and not paid out, and what about their operating costs. In short, my cabinet is, as you suggested, rather intensively involved with management companies, because there are a number of issues on which I would like to have some more text and explanation. For example, I asked the supervisory authority to examine the operating costs, which are very high for some companies, and the amounts collected which could not be paid out for various reasons. I am working rather intensively on the dossier in order to bring much more transparency in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic764x.u45	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. It is a good thing to await the investigation for the specific case, which seems obvious to me. I'll get the file up and running on time as soon as you have more information. It is very good that you are intensively involved in the management companies, because that is a permanent story: you are not the first to have the hands full with it. It is a good thing to look at the operating costs, but not just at them. Transparency and efficiency remain important. People are willing to pay for copyrighted material, as we can see from the increase in premium streaming services. People are willing to pay for content, but it is also very important that they are fully aware of it and have the necessary guarantees that the resources will also end up with the right people. That's sometimes a trade-off between costs and the right recipients. Do not lose sight of this in particular: the amounts collected must reach the right persons. In the example, the management company argued to the worker or, indirectly, to her employer, that she had suffered damage by setting up the radio and listening to some of her colleagues. If this is done structurally, the company has indeed suffered damage. If that is incidental, I dare ask myself to what extent direct collection is indeed proportional pending the investigation. A simple person may feel intimidated by this method and do not want to incur costs, but if he refuses to pay, the alternative is that the company goes to court and claims the damage suffered. What would a judge do with that? Would he effectively say that it was a damage for the authors of 443 euros? I doubt the judge would pass such a judgment when it comes to ignorance. I think he would rather impose compensation for a symbolic euro. So can a management company get its dime in case of a first, unconscious offense? I believe that information is very important at all times, not only for companies but also for staff.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic764x.u46	Mr Dedecker, to be sure, I would like to ask you the following. Under item 41, you have a question No. 21730 on the photocopy fee. Does that question have the same content as your question No? 21037 under item 26 on the home copy fee? Is it the same or different questions?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic764x.u47	Mr President, I did not put the question under item 41 until Monday. I hadn't seen it added to today's agenda.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic764x.u48	Thank you. I just wanted to make sure. Would you like to deal with both questions as well?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic764x.u49	Yes, Mr President, these are two separate questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic764x.u50	Perhaps we can deal with both questions one after the other, if Mr Janssen agrees. [[Assent]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic764x.u51	Mr Minister, with the Royal Decree of 11 December 2016, you have tried to bring the Belgian rules on home copy into line with European case law, including the Padawan judgment. This has been preceded by a long history, as the chairman of our committee knows. This Royal Decree establishes a system for the refund or exemption of the home copy fee. Professional users can either recover the paid home copy fee or make their purchases from an exempt supplier. The list of exempted suppliers can be consulted on the Auvibel website. I have just done that again, but no supplier has yet been recognised as an exempt supplier. Minister, how many applications for reimbursement of the home copy fee have Auvibel already received from how many professional users and for what amount? In what ways was this new possibility of reimbursement proactively communicated by Auvibel or by other services under your authority? In what way was the possibility of concluding an exemption agreement proactively communicated by Auvibel or your services to potentially eligible suppliers? How do you explain the fact that zero exemption agreements have been concluded so far? Dealers, wholesalers and retailers wishing to conclude an exemption agreement may only make devices and carriers available to professional users. This means that in that case they will have to refuse other potential customers. They can only sell to one category of customers. They must refuse the other category. Of course, this is not so attractive to conclude an exemption agreement. To what extent are you considering abolishing this exclusivity of sales to professional users and offering each trader the opportunity to sell without charge? How do you evaluate your KB, knowing that the Administrative Simplification Service previously warned against an excessive administrative threshold to apply for reimbursement? Would you like me to ask the second question about the photocopying fee as well? That's different from the home copy.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic764x.u52	I'd like one at a time. In the period from January to August 2017, no application for reimbursement was submitted by a professional user. In practice, this reimbursement procedure already existed before the entry into force of the new Royal Decree. However, Auvibel had not received any claim for reimbursement from professional users at the time. The websites of the FPS Economy and Auvibel were updated as soon as the new regulations came into force. The start page of Auvibel, which you apparently visited earlier, mentions the adaptation of the regulations. There are special pages dedicated to information for obtaining a refund or concluding an agreement for an exemption from the fee. As this scheme has been discussed several times within the Advisory Committee on Home Copies, with the relevant professional environments, it can be assumed that this information is sufficiently well known in the sector and the relevant sector organisations can easily spread it further to their members. As far as your fourth question is concerned, I do not yet have any factual data to assess the impact of the new provisions. The new regime did not enter into force until early this year. I can say, however, that no complaints have yet been received by the inspection service. According to the Royal Decree of 18 October 2013, distributors, i.e. wholesale and retail, who wish to conclude an exemption agreement are indeed obliged to make only devices and carriers available to professional users. This measure is a measure of control. The KB entered into force on 30 December 2016 and is therefore relatively young. Nevertheless, I am open to an evaluation of this KB in the Advisory Committee on Home Copie, although I think it is too early. Following an evaluation of several European examples, this Royal Decree appears to establish a balanced and correct system that seeks to avoid the risks of abuse. The administrative burden for professional users was discussed in the meetings of the Advisory Committee on Home Copie during discussion of this KB. Various measures have been taken to reduce the administrative burden compared to the original proposal. In conclusion, as far as I am concerned, this is a balanced RB, taking into account everyone's legitimate interests and interests, and a balanced distribution of burdens. An evaluation can clarify, confirm or dig up. We need to ensure that sufficient time has passed to evaluate the functioning of that KB in an appropriate manner. Less than a year might be a little too soon. I'm open to that either way.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic764x.u53	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. You say that the possibility of applying for a refund already existed. If one looked at the Auvibel website, this turned out to be a very complex procedure. It wasn't exactly motivating to do this. That is also the argument that the DAV cites. The administrative procedure was more expensive for the company concerned than any proceeds from the repayment. This was therefore indeed a high threshold. As far as the evaluation is concerned, should applications for reimbursement be made only modestly, I would agree that a year is too early. However, we are talking about the full zero. Zero means that in the last ten months no one has shown any interest. This seems to me to be very little, and it seems to me to be in line with the warning given by the Administrative Simplification Service. Therefore, I do not think it would be a bad thing to put this on the agenda of the Advisory Committee on Home Copie, so that a question can be asked by the various Members about the possible input they have received from their constituents.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic764x.u54	Mr Dedecker, you may ask your question with the agreement of the other Members present. The question is more or less about the same subject. So this order seems logical to me.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic764x.u55	Mr President, I would like to thank the Members present. Mr Minister, this question is not about the home copy fee but about the photocopy fee. That is another system, namely the reproduction. Of course, it has something to do with it, and of course it is also an exception to copyright. However, the subject is more topical. As you know, the book fair is currently running in Antwerp. As a result, some authors and publishers took action against the photocopying fee or reproduction fee, which is collected by Reprobel. By the way, it was one of your favorite files, which you have also spent some time on. The authors and publishers complain that the page rate, being the proportional fee, as mentioned in the law and paying copies, has tripled. However, the authors would receive only half of their previous earnings. That seems to me, to put it mildly, rather short. Reprography law was, as you know, reformed in 2016 as of 2017 following the ruling of the European Court of Justice in the HP versus Reprobel case. In addition, the fixed levy on equipment was abolished. It was partly compensated by the proportional remuneration on the number of copies, i.e. the page rate mentioned by the authors, which increased by a factor of 2.7 for the benefit of authors and publishers. Of course, they go too far, because in the past the fixed fees were also paid. It's not like they didn't exist. They were also paid and, of course, passed on to the final consumer, which the authors concerned forgot to mention. Moreover, the total revenue from the charges paid by consumers and businesses, i.e. the sum of the fixed and variable fees, was previously disproportionate in Belgium. They were among the highest in Europe, which the authors and publishers concerned forgot to mention. Hence my next questions. We all know "Sunday Bendag". After all, Sunday is the day that Minister Ben Weyts appears in the media. Every now and then, however, I get the impression that every day is a "Kris Peetersdag". I would therefore have expected that such misleading communication by the authors and publishers concerned would be the subject of a response from Mr Kris Peeters and that he would correct or attempt to correct the wrong impression generated by the press about his policy. Firstly, how have you tried to correct the misleading communication about your policy or about the current government's policy? Secondly, how do you evaluate the reform that has been introduced for almost a year today? It has been in place for less than a year, but some comments have already been made. Thirdly, what is the status of the study on the extent of the actual damage? In the long run, it should know its contents.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic764x.u56	Mr President, Mr Dedecker, I have been waiting for the answer to the question you have asked. I entrust it to you to make the necessary communication now. After all, I would not like to be overwhelmed in the media. I'm just trying to control myself from time to time. I'll give you the answer now. You can also get it in writing. Over the next few hours and days, I will give you every opportunity to communicate about this. Let you go, I'd say. All madness on a stick, I agree with you that the coverage of the photocopying fee and other copyright issues could have been a little more nuanced, and then I express myself with caution. Of course, more important than the coverage is the substance of the matter. It is important that a system is developed that makes sense and that is based on objective criteria. In this context, I have taken the initiative to launch a study to calculate the disadvantage of right holders. I'll come back to the timing later. The new legislation on reproduction seems to me to offer a solid and balanced solution in the light of European case law. In fact, the abolition of the flat-rate allowance made the proportional compensation more substantial in order to compensate for the damage suffered by the authors. The new law only had its full effect with the Royal Decrees of 5 March 2017, which set out, inter alia, the methods of collection and the rates. In September, the management company responsible for the collection and distribution of the reproduction fee was designated according to the modalities of the new law, so that the final collection of the fee for the reference year 2017 could be started. It is therefore too early to make a real evaluation. The rates in the two royal decrees of 5 March, as you know, have a limited period of validity, as the study relating to the estimation of damage is carried out by the exception for reproduction this year. Once the results of this study are on the table, the rates can be re-examined. Due to timing, this study is still ongoing. The conclusions are expected by the end of this year and will be published.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic764x.u57	Mr Minister, I am eagerly looking forward to the results of the study with you, so that we can apply the right and proper rates. However, it is very important that we proceed correctly with the study. I have to tell you, I'd be surprised if people were working effectively from Tom Lanoye. We'll see what this study brings.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic764x.u58	Minister, the press has echoed your desire to eliminate the debt of copyright societies to artists. Today, there would be 600 million euros to be paid to artists and beneficiaries, or 129 million euros in addition in four years. These impressive amounts are at stake. How do you explain that such a sum has not yet been distributed? How do you explain this significant increase in four years? Is this delay in payment particularly acute in some copyright societies? Or is it a widespread problem? At present, on average, after how long does an author or a rightholder receive compensation for his copyright? To which groups of authors or rightholders are the main recipients of these sums? Since you have announced a plan to address this problem, how do you intend to speed up the payment of these amounts?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic764x.u59	Ms. Lalieux, different reasons explain the debt to the beneficiaries. Some of the amounts collected are still to be allocated on the basis of the allocation rules. In addition, the sum includes fees not yet collected under a legal licence in which the beneficiaries are not affiliated with the management company concerned. The 26 collective societies all have debts to the beneficiaries. On average, the distribution speed is 15 months after the end of the accounting year of collection. Here, there are large differences between management companies, which vary from one month to more than three years. Also, with regard to operating costs, there are differences of 5 to 30 per cent and, in exceptional cases, even more. For more detailed figures and for more information, I invite you to consult the annual report of the inspection service, even if you have, no doubt, already read it. In addition, I can tell you that under the Act of 8 June 2017, I have already taken various measures to improve the speed of distribution and to reduce the operating costs of management companies. In practice, collecting societies must pay the beneficiaries within 9 months instead of 24 months and a limit of 15% of operating costs is imposed. Following the annual report, a consultation with all management companies took place on 25 October. I have asked management companies to draw up an action plan to make the distribution of rights more effective for the benefit of actors and authors. I also asked the control department to develop measures to deal with the problem(s) mentioned. A new consultation with all management companies is scheduled for December. I will continue to engage fully with oversight services and management companies to ensure that eligible beneficiaries receive the contributions to which they are entitled within a reasonable period of time.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic764x.u60	Minister, thank you for your answer. I'm not displeased with the committee. It was important to have a concert, indeed. I will come back in December to ask you about the proposed management plan. This is what needs to be resolved, because artists and rightholders alike need this money quickly. At the chain level, they are the ones that are weakened, not the management companies. It is appropriate to continue the checks, as it is thanks to the latter that the beneficiaries will be paid more quickly.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic764x.u61	Minister, in some shops customers are asked to give an e-mail address before they receive a proof of payment. It has its advantages. It's cheaper and more environmentally friendly. Moreover, one cannot lose the ticket and so on. There is, of course, a problem if the customer is refused a paper ticket if he or she asks for it. As a result, the customer will have no proof of purchase and will therefore not be able to rely on the guarantee or exchange option. However, consumer law states: "In any case, they are unlawful, terms and conditions or the combinations of terms and conditions which aim at restricting the means of proof which the consumer may rely on unlawfully." As we live in an increasingly digital society and these situations may arise more, I would like to hear from you whether a store is obliged to deliver a paper proof of payment when a customer asks for it or whether it is sufficient to provide only an electronic checkout ticket? Have you received any complaints about this problem? If so, what are you going to do about it?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic764x.u62	This is a legal question. Firstly, there is no legal obligation for shops to deliver a cash ticket. Most shops do. The evolution towards electronic documents and electronic payment certificates is understandable and I do not think we should stop either. However, this evolution should not result in a consumer who does not wish to obtain or who cannot work with electronic documents being deprived of evidence that he needs to assert his rights, for example in the area of guarantee. Such evidence must not necessarily be cash tickets. Secondly, I have not yet received any signal that consumers would be facing problems in this area. The Economic Inspectorate has not received any complaints on this matter so far. Thirdly, therefore, I am not planning any specific action unless you provide me with additional information that would require it. I ask the FPS Economy to be attentive to developments in this area. If there are any complaints, we can take that further into account.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic764x.u63	Minister, the shift to more digital is indeed logical and unstoppable. The cover is preferred, but a number of people do not want to work digitally or do not like to give an email address to a commercial company. One knows that one will then be bombarded endlessly with e-mails, on which one has to unsubscribe each time. If you are not yet aware of any complaints, I can give you one complaint that has touched me, but I admit that it is not a major social problem today. However, let us keep an eye on it and, if necessary by raising awareness of the sector, call for these problems to be avoided.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic764x.u64	Mr President, Minister, the retail sector is under severe competitive pressure will not be news to you. Through all kinds of promotions and discounts they try to lure the customer to their stores. As long as the consumer can benefit from this and is not misled, there is no problem. Otherwise, it becomes when a store presents itself as the cheapest, but it doesn't turn out to be on closer understanding. For example, with all due respect for his merits in Flanders, Colruyt recently advertised a number of products, in which a perceptive consumer drew our attention to the fact that in reality there was no targeted price reduction. For example, a leaflet announced that the unit price for a bag of chips will be 1.78 euros from 20 September 2017. The same consumer had purchased the same bag of chips the day before for 1.48 euros. Only when purchasing several units of this product would a consumer receive a discount, starting from two pieces 20 % and starting from four units 25 %. It thus seems as if the price of the bag chips was first increased by 20 % to prevent a discount of 20 %, which is also linked to the condition to buy two pieces immediately. How do you assess the situation outlined? Is this a misleading commercial practice? In 2015, the rules governing the announcement of price reductions in our country were adapted to European case law. At that time, you stated in Parliament that you would work on the publication of directives in order to give the sector some guidance when it intends to announce price reductions. Are there and are they sufficient?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic764x.u65	Mr President, Mr Janssen, it is of course true that there are many things in life and I understand that the consumer is then addressing you to finally clarify, which is a very good thing. You will then address that question to me in order to clarify it. I cannot, of course, comment directly on the specific elements you have mentioned concerning bag chips. However, in order to ascertain whether there is indeed an infringement of the legal rules of Book VI of the Economic Law Code, there must always be a counter-examination. As you know, the Economic Inspectorate is responsible for monitoring the rules. In this context, I think it is important to know whether it is a business practice and not an isolated case. As a result of your question, I had my cabinet contact Colruyt. The problem seems to arise from the fact that there are a number of weeks between the printing of the public leaflet and its distribution. Colruyt will examine how to improve consumer information on the prices indicated in the leaflet. On your third question I can confirm that the guidelines have been published on the website of the FPS Economy. If questions from market actors or from the work of the FPS Economy prove that further clarifications are needed, these guidelines will be further supplemented. He is, after all, the purpose of the guidelines to bring clarity. As long as that clarity is not complete, the guidelines should be extended and adapted. Colruyt is investigating how things have gone and hopefully in the future will ensure that the timelap between printing the leaflet and distributing it does not give any additional problems, as you have mentioned in your example.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic764x.u66	Mr. Secretary, it shouldn't happen. We have seen the leaflet and we have been able to determine it ourselves. It is difficult to assess whether this is a common practice or a one-off event. I think Colruyt will now examine this and, if necessary, make adjustments to his policy in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic764x.u67	Minister, the Network against Poverty calls for a ban on house-to-house sales of energy contracts. The call came after a number of complaints about the sale of energy contracts in Ostend. Contracts were concluded while the consumer did not understand the contract, for example because he or she is not powerful in the Dutch language. Some time ago, Test-Achats also called for a ban on house-to-house sales of energy contracts and I already asked a number of questions about this. In June of this year, a renewed code of conduct was signed with energy suppliers. In the light of European legislation, this did not include a ban on door-to-door sales. However, there are still problems with house-to-house sales. My questions on this are as follows. How many complaints were noted by the Economic Inspectorate for the years 2014 to today? Are you still investigating measures to regulate house-to-house sales differently?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic764x.u68	Mr Janssen, I have collected some written figures for you. I'll give it to you later. Since 2014, the Economic Inspectorate has received a total of more than 300 notifications about the door-to-door sale of energy contracts. That was 21 in 2014, 120 in 2015, 89 in 2016 and 78 in 2017. I repeat what I said earlier: a door-to-door sale is a commercial practice and cannot therefore be prohibited or regulated because it was harmonised at European level. As a reminder, our country was condemned by the European Court of Justice for the incomplete transposition of the Unfair Commercial Practices Directive. One of the elements of that conviction concerned the restrictions laid down in the Law on Interim Trade which have since been lifted. However, it is important to address the problem. At the beginning of this year, a code of conduct "direct sale face to face" was closed. In particular, companies active in the sale of energy contracts have committed themselves to this code of conduct. The latest version of the energy agreement also includes a number of additional rules for off-premises sales. These should help to ensure that the sales interview is conducted correctly. The Code of Conduct for Direct Sales provides for an annual review. This evaluation will be carried out. I also asked the Consumer Council to carry out an overall evaluation of the various codes of conduct. The number's down. It was at its highest level in 2015 and it fell sharply afterwards. The imposition of a legal ban has already been launched several times by a number of organisations. I can't do that at European level. I've had that looked at several times by the FPS Economy. If we could, we would be in a slightly different situation. However, I have taken initiatives, within the framework of the codes of conduct, to make proper arrangements with the companies concerned. Those agreements are now in place, but they must also be respected in practice and correctly applied. For this reason, the evaluation of codes of conduct is very important. In this way it can be assessed whether it is going in the right direction. This will have to be made clear in the coming months.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic764x.u69	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. We had also pointed out that Europe is banning a ban. We accept that, of course. You say the number is falling. However, I note that in 2014 there were 21 complaints with a big leap up, which is now gradually going down. I'm glad you're doing an annual evaluation. Perhaps you could give us some details of when this annual evaluation will take place.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic764x.u70	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic764x.u71	Mr President, Minister, Horeca Vlaanderen drew attention this week to false reviews about catering on a number of online platforms. There appear to be countless false reviews where the untruth of the review is clear even without far-reaching control. For example, there is a negative opinion on dishes that a restaurant does not offer or it is reported that the occasion is a café, while it is a restaurant. The website operators also do not seem to act entirely correctly. In order to change a clearly false review, the Catering Manager should join the best-known TripAdvisor platform on the website. The online platforms clearly have all the possibilities to tackle and remove the false reviews, but link to this conditions for the catering operator. Horeca Flanders calls for regulatory action by the government. My questions are as follows, Minister. Do you have any knowledge of the problems outlined above? Do you see opportunities to respond to the demand for regulatory action?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic764x.u72	Mr Janssen, I know the problems you are raising. In 2015, the Economic Inspectorate conducted a study on price comparison and review websites. A survey is currently under way on a number of review websites. That investigation has not yet been closed, so I cannot yet give you its conclusions. As soon as I have received the research report with the conclusions, I will invite the Catering Federations to explain the research report and the actions of the inspection and to examine what could or should be done in addition to the false reviews.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic764x.u73	Minister, your answer is very brief. You're working on it, so we'll wait and see. I suppose it will be completed in 2018. We are looking forward to the results.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic764x.u74	Mr President, Minister, after ING and Record Bank, a new story of restructuring in the banking sector is emerging. AXA would greatly reduce the number of offices in the network, we heard through the press. The unrest among the AXA office owners is, of course, great, because this reduction can lead to the loss of several hundred jobs, that is what we read. The spokesperson of AXA bank left in the middle how many offices would close and which exactly that would be. Are you aware of the exact plans of AXA? Who is affected and what are the consequences? More generally, what future do you see for banks and intermediaries in a sector that is strongly subject to continuous digital transformation? What about services for more complex products such as loans, such as residential loans, and investments? You have recently agreed a code of conduct with Febelfin and the interest groups. Will you ensure that this code will be followed carefully in the event of a possible reorganisation?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic764x.u75	Mr President, Mr Klaps, I am indeed aware of AXA's plans. However, it is not clear how many agencies will be affected by the restructuring. AXA therefore states that the figures circulating in the media are rather suggestive. As Minister for Employment, Economics and Consumers, it is of course important that employment within the sector is monitored to the maximum, on the one hand, and that there is adequate guidance for consumers in the search for the right product, on the other. As far as consumer protection is concerned, the online commercialisation of more complex products such as credit and investment products is indeed an additional challenge. Digitisation is an irreversible development, which is also necessary for our companies to remain competitive. However, the examination of the consumer's creditworthiness and the suitability of the product cannot be less thorough. It should also always be possible for consumers to receive personal guidance in an office itself. What is also essential for me in the field of employment is that the agents with whom cooperation is terminated or those who will be employed in another structure should be adequately supervised and adequately compensated. Although the restructuring of AXA is not covered by the code of conduct clause due to the net reduction of less than 15%, I am pleased to inform you that AXA recognises the essential importance of the code of conduct that we concluded together with BZB, Fedafin, Febelfin and, at that time, Minister Borsus last summer. AXA has therefore undertaken to consult its agents in a transparent and open manner. We shall, of course, continue to monitor this. You will monitor and, at the right time, you will be able to ask a new question about it.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic764x.u76	Thank you for your reply, Minister. You know that the sector is close to my heart. That was already the case with other organizations. At AXA that is just a bit more the case. For a long time I was a colleague of the people who are now being targeted. Reorganisations are needed. The sector is changing. People are particularly quick to ask for clarity, so that there is no month-long uncertainty, such as with Record Bank and ING. We must quickly know what is going on so that we can draw up a new plan for the future for those who will continue. I will certainly come back to that together with you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic764x.u77	Mr President, Minister, you know that e-commerce is a stick horse of my party. However, statistics from the Economic Inspectorate show a marked increase in the number of complaints about e-commerce. Last year, the new hotline 5 166 times was contacted with complaints about the purchase of goods or services over the internet. The most common complaint concerns the non-delivery of the product. After 3 601 checks 938 warnings and 250 minutes were issued. Both traders and consumers benefit from a correct explanation of their rights and obligations when purchasing via the Internet. As always with internet-related problems, the international context obviously plays a role. In addition to the BeCommerce national label, there is also a European label Ecommerce. Mr Minister, I have the following questions. Firstly, do you see opportunities to limit e-commerce problems for consumers? Secondly, do you have any idea of the consequences given to the 250 minutes? What share of these PVs is directed against Belgian online traders? Thirdly, how can you make consumers more familiar with the BeCommerce and Ecommerce Europe labels? Fourthly, are measures being developed at European or international level to improve consumer protection and information?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic764x.u78	Mr President, Mr Janssen, the FPS Economy is responsible for monitoring compliance with the legislation on e-commerce and is proactively supporting consumer prevention. In the field of prevention, the website of the FPS Economy advises consumers to avoid problems with online purchases, such as checking the reputation of the online salesman, by checking, for example, whether he has a quality label, by reading the general terms and conditions, checking the company's identification data and so on. The Economic Inspectorate regularly checks the Belgian e-commerce sites. This year, for example, a general survey was conducted on e-commerce, in which 329 Belgian webshops were checked, especially from SMEs. It can be concluded that most infringements are due to a lack of knowledge of the legal framework. The vast majority of controlled companies seem to me to be in good faith because they immediately put the situation right. In consultation with the self-employed organisations, I will consider how to improve knowledge of the legislation. Of the 250 minutes drawn up last year, 245 were directed against Belgian companies. In 233 cases, the offender was proposed an administrative transaction. Of these, 179 were paid. The files of 54 unpaid transactions were sent together with 17 other minutes to the courthouse of the King's Attorney for further processing. The follow-up to these files is not known to me because, of course, the public prosecutor is working on it in secret, the secret of the investigation. On the website of the FPS Economy, the consumer also finds information about labels. However, there is a need for some reserve in this context. The presence of a label does not guarantee 100% compliance with all legal rules by the company concerned. In this context, the Economic Inspectorate has recently contacted the BeCommerce label. Since 2006, the European Regulation on Consumer Protection Cooperation has been incorporated. It regulates cooperation between national consumer protection regulators. The Regulation is currently being revised and on a number of points cooperation will be strengthened and supervisory powers will be extended, including in the field of e-commerce. Annually, in the framework of the Fraud Prevention Month, an initiative of the International Consumer Protection and Enforcement Network ("International Consumer Protection and Enforcement Network") is devoted to informing consumers. E-commerce is a recurring theme.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic764x.u79	Minister, you are talking about 245 pvs for Belgian companies. So I assume that there were also five for foreign or international companies. I didn't hear you say anything about that. It might be a little hard to check that out, too. I see that most CVs are paid or that a solution is being found. Just with those five other CVs, it might be more difficult to come up with a solution. We'll keep following the file. Maybe you could check out what happened to those five other P.V.s.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic764x.u80	Mr President, Minister, on 23 December 2016, the Flemish Parliament adopted a decree establishing a regulated book price. In the same vein, the Wallonia-Brussels Federation, between the time I tabled my question and now, has adopted a decree on the cultural protection of the book, which will introduce a single price for it and will put an end to the tabella mechanism and thus to the somewhat absurd and harmful situation for booksellers where a single book is sometimes sold 10 to 15% more expensive than for our French neighbours. Nevertheless, speaking on the Flemish decree, the Council of State stated in its opinion of 13 September 2016 that "if the drafters wish to develop a comprehensive, coherent and binding regulation, it will be necessary to coordinate or in any case to cooperate with the federal authority, which is competent for the institutions established in the Brussels-Capital Bilingual Region, which, because of their activities, cannot be regarded as belonging exclusively to one or the other Community". Wishing to see things move forward and to work hand in hand to put in place a coherent and effective policy in the Brussels-Capital Region, the two Communities have already prepared a draft cooperation agreement which, according to my information, was submitted to you last June, Minister. Since it would seem incongruous that it is the federal level that is a barrier to good intra-Community cooperation, I would like to clarify some points with you. Has the above-mentioned draft cooperation agreement been successful? If so, do you have any comments on the latter? How soon do you intend to submit your decision to the relevant Ministers of Culture? Finally, what steps will then be taken prior to the entry into force of the Agreement?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic764x.u81	Mr President, Mr de Lamotte, in his opinion addressed to the Flemish Government, the Council of State recalled that in the matter of book prices, the federal level is competent to lay down rules on bicultural organisations and undertakings in the Brussels-Capital Region. A publisher, seller or importer of books is supposed to be bicultural when it is significantly active in the book market in the other language. In addition, I have received the draft cooperation agreement you are referring to. I have also sought the opinion of the Autorité de la concurrence on this project. In this recent opinion, the Authority has taken into account the proper functioning of the market and consumer protection. With this in mind, it defends the solution of leaving to the booksellers the free choice of price. The content of the draft cooperation agreement is as follows. Five articles aim to define a set of common rules. Seven articles establish rules that would be specific to books written mainly or exclusively in French, and eight articles are devoted to books written mainly or exclusively in Dutch. In this sense, the agreement would only lead to a rather limited standardization. Second, it would create particular difficulties in the Brussels Region where many bookstores are not limited to books written in a single language. It is difficult to determine whether this activity in the other language is sufficient to be considered significant. It's a first difficulty. Secondly, requiring a bookshop concerned to apply different regimes depending on whether the book sold is written in French, Dutch or another language would not be simple. These barriers would also apply to publishers and importers of books. That is why I believe that the project would be a source of administrative complications and legal uncertainty. Furthermore, with regard to the sale of books in the Brussels-Capital Region, care should be taken to ensure that the Dutch-speaking consumer is not discriminated against in relation to the French-speaking consumer when it comes to identical editions available in both Dutch and French. In addition, it should be ensured that French-language book publishers are not discriminated against in relation to Dutch-language book publishers if they are subject to different rules regarding price, price reduction possibilities and retention time. The draft cooperation agreement therefore risks having a discriminatory effect and it does not seem quite obvious to avoid it by making some adaptations to the project, without sweeping the fundamental principles. Since it is therefore not clear and predictable whether a cooperation agreement is appropriate or practical, I have decided not to take any action at this time. If this absence of a federal measure led to a difficult to accept damage to unilingual institutions in the Brussels-Capital Region, it would then be up to the Flemish Government and the French-speaking Government to limit the geographical scope to the Flemish Region or the French-speaking Region. The situation is that way and I have given you arguments, but for me it is a difficult case. Of course, we must act. The problem should be solved and problems should not be increased in the regions and in practice. That is why I have decided not to take any action yet. When I have other elements or very strong reactions on one side or the other, I will be able to undertake some actions, but not at the moment.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic764x.u82	Mr. Chair, Minister, I thank you for your highly technical answer, which explains the difficulty of the model. It will probably be necessary to contact the Flemish Region and the French Community in order to find a solution to this problem. In other words, there is a need to organize consultations on the subject and to consider the cost-benefit ratio of the measures that should be taken. I would like once again to thank you for your precision. I have no doubt that you will be contacted shortly by law firms to move forward on the matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic764x.u83	Question No 21288 by Caroline Cassart-Mailleux is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic764x.u84	Minister, many beers sold in Belgium are presented as abbey beers. Unlike Trappist beers which are the subject of a strict label established by the Association Internationale Trappiste, the name "beer of abbey" is very little protected, except by the label "Belgian beer of abbey recognized" awarded by the Union of Belgian Brewery which imposes certain conditions, such as the link with an existing abbey and the remuneration of it via, in particular, royalties. Nevertheless, nothing prevents a brewery from doing without this label to exploit the name of an abbey, especially if it is no longer active. This is a three-fold damage: - for a consumer who has no guarantee as to the authenticity of the product he consumes; - for Belgian wealth which does not receive any share of the profits made on its behalf; - for breweries which bear the higher cost of respecting the various appellations. An example is the brewery of La Cambre. This company calls itself a brewery while brewing is done by another company; its beer is said to be Brussels while it is brewed in Limburg and it is called abbey beer while it is brewed in an industrial brewery unrelated to an abbey. No mention is made on labels or on the website to clarify the information to the consumer. These incorrect designations could be associated with unfair competition since they harm breweries that bear the higher costs of a production site in Brussels, as well as breweries that bear the higher cost of the "recognized Belgian abbey beer" designation. Mr Minister, do you have any idea how many Belgian brands claim to be "beer of abbey" but are not recognised by the Union of Belgian Brewery as beers of recognized Belgian abbeys? What is your assessment of this name problem? What legislation is in force? What measures are you considering to remedy this? Do you think that a strengthening of the specifications of the name "beer of abbey", the name of "brasserie" or the name "of origin" is justified?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic764x.u85	Mr President, trademark legislation allows collective marks to be protected. It determines in a regulation of use and control the criteria to be met by companies who want to be able to affix it on their products. It is filed and controlled by a holder, e.g. a producer association. There is a collective brand "Bière belge d'Abbaye recognizable" with which a logo is associated. This mark was registered on 12 August 1999 by the association of Belgian Brasseurs, which must ensure that it is respected. I am not aware of the number of producers who use this brand without having subscribed to it. As far as your second question is concerned, in any event, the use of statements which may mislead the consumer at the place of origin or the mode of manufacture of a food is prohibited by the European Regulation on the information of consumers on foodstuffs. With regard to trademark rights, the Benelux Convention on Intellectual Protection and the European Union Trade Mark Regulation 2017/1001 are applicable. Both laws provide for the possibility for the proprietor of the trade mark to take action against its non-conforming use in order to obtain its cessation and possibly to claim damages. As far as your third question is concerned, it is primarily for the Belgian Brassors' Federation to ensure that their collective mark is used in a proper manner. The applicable legislation allows the persons concerned to act to ensure both the protection of their rights and the correct information to consumers. It does not seem useful to me to intervene in this matter except in the event of major problems with the Belgian Brassors Federation, but I understood that this was not the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic764x.u86	Minister, thank you for your answers, which I take note of.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic764x.u87	Question No 21542 by Mrs Jadin is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic764x.u88	Minister, an article in De Morgen following a study by Dr Preneel van de KU Leuven attracted my attention. The RSA encryption of the chip in the bank card does not appear to be a solid lock, according to the article. Abroad, the chips of manufacturer Infineon were hacked. Infineon is not a supplier in Belgium, but it is not excluded that there are also vulnerabilities in Belgium. What risk does the vulnerability of the chip entail for the consumer? In what way does the government, whether or not in a public-private partnership, control such a crypto-analysis? How crypto-agile are the current bank cards? Is there a remedial plan when a serious incident occurs at the level of water density of crypto algorithms? What guarantees do consumers get that financial transactions or digital signatures are safe? What is your view on how banks should deal with this?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic764x.u89	Mr Klaps, the risk to the user of a Belgian payment card is very low. The security of payment cards in Belgium is based on the EMV standard, which stands for Europay, Mastercard and Visa, the three payment card systems that have jointly established a framework for chip payment cards. The keys are not generated in the card, but in the so-called hardware security modules. These hardware security modules do not use the vulnerable Infineon chip. In addition, no complaints have yet been received from the Economic Inspectorate about hacked payment cards. The chips in the payment cards are certified and verified by a lab. The National Bank of Belgium also follows the main developments through various channels such as hackingfora and international exchange of information. So far, weaknesses identified by researchers have often been exploited after a few years. On the basis of the risk analyses carried out by them, the financial industry has so far been able to organise itself before a weakness became a problem. In the event of a serious incident, an action plan should be submitted to the National Bank to remedy the vulnerability as quickly and efficiently as possible. The Economic Law Code requires payment service providers to ensure the protection of security features. In particular, they should ensure that the personalised security features of a payment instrument are not accessible to parties other than the legitimate payment service user. The Economic Law Code also provides for protection measures for users who find that they had not authorised an executed payment transaction or that a transaction was not properly executed. Unless it concerns fraud or serious negligence, the user shall be reimbursed the unauthorised or improperly executed transactions. Given the identified problems with the Infineon chip and the possibility that such a problem may also be present with chips from other suppliers, it is appropriate to encourage banks to switch to more widespread use of even safer encryption algorithms in combination with longer key lengths.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic764x.u90	Thank you, Minister, for that reassuring answer.
