ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-06-54-commissie-ic778x.u1	We take the hatch with the oral questions. I've agreed with the Minister that we'll meet until 6:00 p.m. That is how my fellow Members are aware of the situation. We begin as agreed with item 49 of the agenda.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-06-54-commissie-ic778x.u2	Minister, it appears that more than 60 representatives of civil society have been denied accreditation by the Argentine government at the 11th WTO Ministerial Conference, which starts on 10 December in Buenos Aires. This exclusion also concerns Belgian NGOs and the CNCD-11.11.11, dome of Belgian NGOs. To explain this decision, the WTO advances, in an email sent to excluded participants, that it is the result of a decision by the Argentine government. The message points out that the Argentine authorities may also simply refuse the entry of the country to the representatives of the civil society concerned. It seems to me that this is an unacceptable attack unprecedented in the history of international conferences and, in particular, towards civil society, since it is impossible for civil society to speak at this important international conference. Mr Minister, have any diplomatic contacts been made by you with the Argentine authorities on this matter? With regard to the ministerial conference organized within the framework of this WTO conference, was there any provision for Belgium to participate in it? If so, does Belgium still intend to participate in these circumstances? Will a Belgian ministerial delegation go there? If so, would it be possible for members of civil society to participate?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-06-54-commissie-ic778x.u3	Minister, on December 1st, more than 60 representatives of global civil society were told that the Argentine government refused their accreditation at the 11th WTO Ministerial Conference, which begins on December 10th in Buenos Aires. These accreditations had been confirmed to them for a long time. It even seems that Argentina could simply refuse entry from the country to the representatives of the civil society concerned. In Belgium, this decision of the Argentine Government concerns the CNCD-11.11.11 as the dome of the Belgian NGOs. This is a particularly worrying precedent in the history of these international conferences. In 20 years of existence of the WTO, such an exclusion had never occurred. As the CNCD points out, it is true that on two occasions a government refused access to the territory to some participants, but the ensuing wave of indignation had prompted diplomatic channels to unblock the situation. Minister, what about today? What does Belgium intend to do – bilaterally or through EU action – to convince the Argentine authorities to reconsider their decision and finally grant the promised accreditations to representatives of NGOs and civil society? In view of the urgency, have you ever had any contact with your Argentine counterpart on the subject? How does it justify this decision? Does this choice to exclude civil society not conflict with the principles of transparency and openness that Belgium and the European Union are promoting in this area?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-06-54-commissie-ic778x.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, as soon as we became aware of the refusal of accreditation last week, we took several steps in Brussels, Geneva and Buenos Aires. My services have met with the Ambassador of Argentina in Brussels on several occasions. I instructed our embassy in Buenos Aires to take steps with the Argentine authorities, in consultation with our European partners and the European Union delegation. On Friday, 1 December, at a meeting with my Argentine counterpart and the President of the WTO Ministerial Conference, Susana Malcorra, the European Union ambassador in Buenos Aires, in the presence of several representatives of the Member States of the European Union, including Belgium, was able to express our concern about the decision to refuse accreditation, which we believed then concerned only certain NGOs, including the CNCD-11.11.11. Ms. Malcorra said that Argentina would be prepared to reassess certain decisions on non-accreditation if requested by States. On this basis, I instructed our Ambassador to immediately address such a request to the Argentine authorities to review what I still thought was a decision on the CNCD 11 11 11. That is, in any case, what the organization had told us. We have thus reminded the Argentine Government that, like the European Union, we attach great importance to the involvement of civil society in discussions on international trade. This morning, we were informed by the Argentine authorities that, following a re-evaluation by their services, they were continuing their refusal of accreditation and access to their territory, particularly for the representatives of the CNCD-11.11.11, during the WTO conference. I'm saying representatives. According to our sources, delegates from German, Finnish and Dutch NGOs are in a similar situation. I have, of course, deplored this decision, because the involvement of civil society seems to us to be an essential condition for a public debate on international trade. Moreover, I would like to remind you that we regularly interact with civil society, several NGOs – and in particular the CNCD-11.11.11. To be clear about it, and given the negative developments in the case, I had my Argentine counterpart, Jorge Faurie – before coming to your committee – online, in order to obtain a precise explanation of the decisions that have been taken. They were indeed done by the Argentine Government for security reasons, but they were not aimed at organizations as such. In any case, no refusal was expressed to host a delegation from the CNCD-11.11.11 at this WTO meeting. On the other hand, this decision was directed against certain persons. To give you a fair measure of this case, out of over 600 applications for accreditation of NGO representatives that were submitted, 58 were rejected. That's the proportion. There are indeed three Belgians for whom accreditation was refused for security reasons. According to my colleague, it was not only based on the opinions of the Argentine services, but also on the services of neighbouring countries and countries of the European Union that were contacted by the Argentine services. What is the situation today? There is no refusal of participation or accreditation of a particular NGO. I repeat, these are people who are being targeted. These are decisions taken for security reasons and based on past evidence. I do not have any concrete information on the facts that have been found, but you know that each country has the right to refuse access to its territory for that reason. I first took the initiative to check the exact situation of the persons concerned. It seems that only one really wants to go to Argentina. We are faced with the request of a person who wishes to travel to Argentina to represent the CNCD. Two solutions are presented to the organization. It may choose another representative to circumvent the denial of accreditation of a particular person. It's always possible. The other solution, which I have examined for the moment, is that we commit ourselves – I will immediately say in what form – to the person representing a Belgian NGO not committing acts of violence and not disrupting, through acts of violence, the organisation's meetings – since this is the point that is being put forward. But you can imagine that I am not going, either personally or through our embassy, to engage me in the place of any person, even Belgian. We will therefore ask, if the organization wishes this person to go to Argentina despite everything, that the person himself and the organization undertake to ensure that there is no act of violence, no fact affecting public security in Argentina. The WTO has asked the Argentine authorities to take responsibility for security aspects. That's what I can tell you. Personally, I regret that there may be limitations on the participation of organizations in such meetings, but here there is no refusal to accept organizations. I do not think that is the case in other countries either, but I am not sure. There are refusals against people, based on a security screening. You know that we also screen in Belgium when people want to visit us. The message could indeed be passed on to the Argentine authorities; my colleague proposed that this be done in this way, and this could probably change the decision. But of course, the commitment must come from the person and the organization. It is not the FPS Foreign Affairs which will commit itself, without further, to the benefit of someone who is refused for security reasons in another country. I just wanted to sort things out a little bit. For when we say "NGOs are refused", I repeat, 58 out of more than 600 applications are denied accreditation. And refusals are about people, they are individual refusals. I do not, of course, have many possible elements of reaction – as I have already said in other cases, in other countries – local, national authorities obviously have the choice of whether or not to grant access to their territory. That is what it is today. All the arrangements have in any case been made, and therefore, very concretely, if we obtain this commitment not to engage in violent actions at these WTO meetings, we will transmit this information to the Argentine authorities, hoping that this will resolve the problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-06-54-commissie-ic778x.u5	Minister, thank you for all these elements of the answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-06-54-commissie-ic778x.u6	In order not to intervene again after you, I would like to remind you of one more point. The president already knows. Not only will Belgium be represented there, but the parliament will also be represented there. I had indeed received the request that parliamentarians be accredited, and that is the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-06-54-commissie-ic778x.u7	The Inter-Parliamentary Union will be represented.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-06-54-commissie-ic778x.u8	Thank you, Mr. President, Mr. Minister. These elements put things in context. This shows that you have been vigilant with regard to this question and that you have asked all the questions necessary to be able to act as usefully as possible. I am a little surprised at this security problem caused by the person of the CNCD who is supposed to participate in this conference. But I hear that a solution is possible and I therefore think that we should focus on it and try to achieve it. In any case, I am glad that the steps could have been taken. Let us hope that the CNCD can actually send its representative to the place before the conference ends – this would obviously be the best possible thing!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-06-54-commissie-ic778x.u9	Minister, thank you for these points of answer. I am very pleased that you took this matter seriously from the outset because I think it is important that we should be able to ensure that civil society can participate in this type of conference. What surprises me a little – if I understand correctly – is that you have been very proactive and that you would have finally obtained clear answers only this morning from your Argentine counterpart. We could therefore have avoided a lot of worries, inconveniences and other misunderstandings if this response from the Argentine authorities had been more precise.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-06-54-commissie-ic778x.u10	If you don't mind, we had the clear answer last week but we intervened to say that...
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-06-54-commissie-ic778x.u11	I misunderstood.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-06-54-commissie-ic778x.u12	Last week, as soon as we knew there was a refusal, we started our interventions but there was then a refusal of accreditation.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-06-54-commissie-ic778x.u13	Of course, but the fact that this was a security issue, or a security screening, is an answer that – it seems – would have arrived only this morning?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-06-54-commissie-ic778x.u14	Yes, because we received the information for us that it was the organization that was being targeted. I can tell you that, of course, I wish that in this case, the people concerned would send us the right information rather than immediately raise the problem as a refusal of an organisation's accreditation. That wasn't the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-06-54-commissie-ic778x.u15	The ambassador of the European Union took steps as early as Friday, 1 December. I note that it was not the information that was transmitted to you at that time by the said diplomat. As far as security issues are concerned, of course, I cannot speak out. But I would like Argentina to be urged to react quickly if problems such as those that were to arise were to arise and to be clear about the presence of NGOs.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-06-54-commissie-ic778x.u16	Question No 20852 by Mr Miller is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-06-54-commissie-ic778x.u17	Mr President, Minister, for several years, we can say that North Korea has openly mocked the international community and the UN sanctions by continuing to actively develop its nuclear weapons programme. International tensions in this regard have only increased in recent months and more in recent weeks, with a series of missile launches, such as on 29 August last over Japan, and on 3 and 15 September and one more, in recent days. In this context of continuous escalation, the options for a return to calm and the search for an optimal solution to deal with the North Korean threat seem limited and complex. However, in the light of the latest events and the failure of the previous sanctions, it is no longer possible to settle for the use of sentences and sanctions that would not achieve their objectives. Mr Minister, it is true that Belgium is not a major player in this international crisis. South Korea, the United States, Japan, China and Russia are logically the first and most involved. However, the European Union also remains a major international player capable of finding solutions, including in sensitive and complex issues, as has been seen in the Iranian case. Therefore, the European Union can and must act, in our view. At European level, Belgium can be heard and thus participate in the definition of the European Union's position. I would therefore like to know what Belgium's position on the Korean crisis is at European level. What options have we preferred in order to facilitate a peaceful exit from the crisis? What is proposed and what is proposed by Belgium in this regard, in particular with regard to sanctions and their proper application? The Security Council adopted a new series of sanctions on 11 September, and China accepted for the first time a partial and progressive embargo on oil and total oil on natural gas. But will these partially reinforced sanctions achieve their objectives better than the previous ones? Recent missile attacks have in any case demonstrated the determination of the North Korean regime to continue its missile and probably nuclear programme. Is there a consensus on how to respond to this threat in the European Council? How can the European Union act more concretely and effectively, alongside our partners in the region and our allies? What are already the consequences of tension on the Korean peninsula on the level of armaments in the countries of the region? What are the consequences in terms of nuclear proliferation in the region and elsewhere? Finally, are there clandestine political or opposition movements in North Korea with which the European Union is in contact to try to find long-term solutions to this crisis on that side?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-06-54-commissie-ic778x.u18	Mr President, Minister, I rise in the wake of Mr Dallemagne, who has just denounced the years of conflict between North Korea and the rest of the world. The escalation continues between Mr. Trump and Mr. Kim Jong-un. Indeed, a few days ago, Donald Trump announced that he was placing the Democratic People's Republic of Korea among the states supporting terrorism. The US President intended to increase pressure on Pyongyang to put an end to its nuclear programme. However, since then, North Korea has resumed its nuclear missile tests and tensions have risen by one step with the announcement of the test of a new intercontinental machine that would be able to strike the entire United States continental territory, according to the Pyongyang regime, which also declared that its country had now achieved its goal, to become a nuclear power in its own right. The situation is still very worrying. Indeed, one realizes that from pressure stroke to pressure, the escalation continues. Mr Minister, I am well aware that Belgium is not a fundamental player in this matter. However, you mentioned that Belgian and European diplomacy agreed that the situation was becoming dangerous for world peace and non-proliferation. What is the impact of this new threat on the European and Belgian position? In your opinion, is dialogue still possible? The international community has already responded to the sixth nuclear test on 3 September. For example, the United Nations Security Council adopted resolution 2375 providing for stricter sanctions against North Korea. Will these sanctions be further tightened as a result of this new attempt, which seems to be even more threatening?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-06-54-commissie-ic778x.u19	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the international community responded to North Korea's sixth nuclear test on 3 September 2017 by adopting new sanctions through UN Security Council Resolution 2375. On 10 October, the European Union transposed these new UN sanctions. In addition, it decided to take additional autonomous measures in excess of United Nations sanctions. These were adopted by the Foreign Affairs Council on 16 October 2017. The European Union shall ensure that the additional sanctions and measures it adopts target the country's leaders with a minimum impact on the population. We are also concerned about the humanitarian situation in the country, which needs to be taken into account. The international community must also be united in its condemnation and the full and speedy implementation of the sanctions adopted. A work of conviction is therefore to be done with a number of actors. Moreover, despite the current escalation, the European Union must, in parallel with the sanctions, maintain an approach allowing a critical dialogue with the Pyongyang regime. With regard to the last missile launch on 29 November, the United Nations Security Council met urgently on the evening of 29 November at the request of the United States, Japan and the Republic of Korea. All members of the Security Council strongly condemned this latest missile test and several also alluded to a strengthening of the sanctions regime without wanting to leave the diplomatic path to avoid further escalation. It is no secret that the United States is in favour of new United Nations sanctions against the Democratic People's Republic of Korea. As Russia and China demand that mutual threats and provocations cease, the United States calls for increased pressure from China on the Pyongyang regime. As you said, Mr. Dallemagne, there seems to be an evolution on the Chinese side. This is a step forward, but, as you know, China continues to export oil to the Democratic People's Republic of Korea. This could be an element of a possible extension of the UN sanctions regime. I said it and said it again: the European Union has already gone further than the UN sanctions, but perhaps we could go further on the UN side and come back on the oil supply side. This month, Japan holds the presidency of the Security Council and will hold a ministerial meeting of the Security Council on the situation of human rights in North Korea on 15 December. Through the Japanese Presidency of the Council and the organization of this meeting, renewed pressure can be expected on North Korea. In response, Belgium is, of course, part of the European Union's diplomatic action. I have always supported the dual approach, namely sanctions and diplomatic channels. In fact, just before the beginning of NATO's ministerial meetings over the last two days, we have just celebrated the 50th anniversary of the Harmel report, which forms the basis of this dual approach – the dual approach – that we still use today with regard to Russia, but which can also be used in other cases, including that of North Korea. This must go hand in hand with an ability to see how to influence the behaviour of third countries, in particular China, on the margins of the United Nations General Assembly but also on other occasions. The High Representative, Ms Mogherini, had a series of contacts within the framework of this capacity for action with third countries. The adoption of sanctions is intended to allow for dialogue and, in due course, I do believe that the experience of the European Union – as I have already mentioned in the negotiations with Iran – could be beneficial. Belgium's specific action has been to make direct contacts with a number of actors in the region, whether in Washington or yesterday in Brussels, where I met my American counterpart Rex Tillerson, particularly with regard to the situation in North Korea. Same thing with my colleague from South Korea. We are systematically trying, together with other stakeholders in the region, to address this issue and to see the possibility of one day opening a path of dialogue. In the same way - I have done so especially with African countries - we were being asked to do so - we insist that the sanctions regime should really be applied wherever it should be applied in accordance with the decisions of the United Nations. I would add that at the NATO meetings yesterday and today – but especially in the evening of yesterday – we came back to the North Korea issue with the same approach of increasing pressure. While interventions in terms of sanctions or stronger pressure are not excluded, it is especially important that all already apply the existing sanctions and that a number of partners can be persuaded to weigh more heavily on the situation in North Korea. This is the case with China, but it could be the case with other countries. We are thinking in particular of India, where NATO can play a role in its political approach. NATO has very important contacts with Japan and South Korea. Why not also develop contacts with other partners? I have alluded to this at these NATO meetings. We play a special role in nuclear testing. I've already called him back. Together with Iraq, we have a coordinating role this year in trying to promote the ratification of the CTBT, i.e. the idea of completely banning all nuclear tests. We are in the middle of the debate. I would add that, together with my American colleagues, I have always defended the idea that we should all the more implement the nuclear agreement with Iran, because that is the only way to demonstrate that other subsequent agreements will also be respected. This does not detract from the need to negotiate with Iran, in parallel, other types of ballistic missile measures or to clarify its role in the region. But this must be separated from the nuclear agreement. I believe that it would be harmful not to continue the implementation of this nuclear agreement. How, then, can we convince a future partner in a dialogue - as long as North Korea is willing to open a dialogue - that this possible agreement with North Korea will be respected? It is also an argument that must be used in the debate on the Iranian agreement. With regard to the protection of Europe from ballistic missiles, since this is one of the three authors' questions, NATO is working on a system of protection of European territory. We are still talking about American, Japanese or South Korean cities, but it must be remembered that the analyses show that North Korea's fire could very well reach European cities. NATO is working on a system to protect European territory and the European population from ballistic missiles. This is the anti-ballistic missile defence capability that NATO decided to develop in 2010 at the Lisbon Summit and whose vocation is purely defensive. A capacity is already in place, but some components of protection still need to be finalized. Several allies contribute to this capability on a voluntary basis, such as Germany hosting the command centre, Turkey hosting a radar, and the Netherlands and Denmark providing means support, an endorsement. With regard to the denuclearization agreements, in the 1990s and 2000s the International Community mobilized itself to draw up a legal and technical framework for an irreversible and verifiable process of complete denuclearization. This work, this objective remains more relevant than ever. I remain convinced that it is above all through the implementation of the non-proliferation or nuclear-test-ban treaties that we can make real progress because there are real monitoring mechanisms in this area, including the Atomic Agency. That's where we are! I would add that we are constantly trying to make a firm speech about North Korea, which is accompanied by sanctions. It is not at all excluded that UN sanctions go as far as European sanctions and that there are still others. But next to that, every effort must be made to open up channels for dialogue and find a negotiated solution with that country. At the moment, the sky is not very clear in this matter, it is the least one can say. I hope that the pressure, but also the contacts with partners such as China, which plays a key role in this field, will help to change the situation. I do not hide from you that this is a matter of security concern, which is at the highest level in all the discussions, whether in the European Union, the United Nations or, as I said yesterday, in NATO. Belgium is obviously not a major player, but it sits in these different bodies. Our message is always very clear on the subject. The regional powers are sometimes wider than their region. I am thinking of South Korea, Japan, but also the United States, China, Russia, all those who will have a say in the process. With the agreement of these regional or global powers, I do not rule out that the European Union can play a role as it did in the negotiations with Iran. I recall that Catherine Ashton, the High Representative at the time, was leading the negotiations, which were continued and closed by Federica Mogherini. The work was done at the start of the European Union, which may have a quasi-mediation role to play, not being seen as an actor as strong as others in the region. I repeat, for now the will is to increase the pressure again. Indeed, there is no encouraging response to the organisation of a dialogue.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-06-54-commissie-ic778x.u20	I am very pleased with your approach to this matter. You're right. I remember the words double track approach, according to the Harmel doctrine, as well as the increased pressure and the ability of the European Union to play a specific role, in particular in the face of President Trump's disastrous and matamorous statements, which, paradoxically, weaken the position of the international community. I believe that the European Union remains a strategic diplomatic actor, who is extremely firm on its positions and who could – and should – be involved even more. I am pleased with this approach and I believe, as you have pointed out, that this is a very dangerous and worrying issue, in particular its ability to train other countries to equip themselves with nuclear weapons. Every effort must be made to avoid such a disaster.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-06-54-commissie-ic778x.u21	Minister, thank you for this long and interesting analysis. I share your approach, but although it is difficult to compare, we have never been so close to a nuclear war. The situation with Iran has been very tense, but it is well known that the United States has a rather offensive preventive strategy; the Prime Minister of Japan seems to have just disengaged from the dialogue process; Europe is seeking dialogue. I don't see how to escape the rise of an extra nerve in the coming months. That's very disturbing.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-06-54-commissie-ic778x.u22	The situation in Catalonia is of course not unknown to you, Minister. We have tabled two questions on this subject: the first right after the referendum, the second right after Mr Puigdemont's arrival in Brussels. Because of the constant evolution of the situation, my question is somewhat out of date. In any case, the government has always been very clear in its position, which is supported by our group: we must condemn all violence, we must commit ourselves to dialogue and we must not interfere in the legal procedures that are pending. Of the questions that have been put, two are still interesting. Have you or the government taken steps towards the authorities concerned, both Spanish and Catalan? Then what message did you receive from them? How do you estimate the elements of that message? Secondly, how do you assess the impact on the image of our country, both within the EU and internationally, and certainly on the applications we are pursuing at European and international level?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-06-54-commissie-ic778x.u23	I can tell you that Mr De Vriendt has withdrawn his question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-06-54-commissie-ic778x.u24	Minister, I had the opportunity to put the questions I had put to the Prime Minister on 3 November a while ago in a debate that dealt with them. Have there been any further contacts since then, or is there any additional information that could still be useful in this respect? As Mr Van Peteghem pointed out, the situation is changing from day to day and from hour to hour. I would just like to point out that the very quick condemnation by the Prime Minister of the excessive violence committed by Spain on the day of the referendum was welcomed, for example, in Catalonia. The people were very happy that there was at least one country that at that time had the courage to express its conviction. Since the meeting we had here with the Prime Minister and the questions I was able to ask him then, have there been contacts from the government and/or has there been any new information that could be useful in this respect?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-06-54-commissie-ic778x.u25	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have always said that I am in contact with my colleague Alfonso Dastis, the Spanish Foreign Minister. I had contact with him yesterday during the NATO meeting. We are trying to follow up on the situation and the latest developments in the trial. We have taken note of Spain's new decision and have had the same reaction, in particular the closure of the procedure in Belgium, but no more than that with regard to our contacts. We are also trying to monitor the preparations for the elections, which is normal. I believe that our image has not been damaged abroad. I've had a lot of contacts in that connection in the last few weeks and days. I believe that proper management of such a situation is possible. I did that with my Spanish colleague. The Prime Minister has also been in contact with the Spanish Prime Minister. His first reaction was on the use of force on the day of the referendum. I had a discussion on this with my colleague during the hours and days after the referendum. You know that there is a difference of appreciation on both sides, but we were and remain very clear. On 27 October, the Catalan Parliament declared Catalonia's independence. On the same day, the Spanish Senate approved the measures proposed by the Spanish Government and the activation of Article 155 of the Constitution. The President of the Generalitat was deposed and general elections were announced for 21 December 2017. So there will be a new parliament and a new government in Catalonia. The Belgian position regarding developments in Catalonia was again expressed very clearly by the Prime Minister in the Chamber on 8 November 2017. Firstly, this is an internal Spanish matter, which must be resolved legally in accordance with the Spanish Constitution and the rule of law. Secondly, any form of violence must be avoided and condemned. Thirdly, we believe that the solution remains a real dialogue between the different groups of people, between the different provinces in Spain and the central government. Fourthly, the Belgian Government has only one interlocutor, in particular the Spanish Government, and follows a clear line of action, namely the separation of powers, absolute respect for the judiciary and the maintenance of a dialogue at all levels with our Spanish partner within the European Union. We remain on that line and I will continue to keep in touch with my colleague, the Foreign Minister of Spain, Alfonso Dastis.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-06-54-commissie-ic778x.u26	Minister, I am glad that, in addition to focusing on dialogue, we also support the dialogue ourselves. There must indeed be a dialogue between our country and Spain. In any case, you give the impression that this has no impact on our image at international and European level. These are important elements that can be taken into account. The principles of our government have always been very clear. If we continue to do so, I believe that a solution must be possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-06-54-commissie-ic778x.u27	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. You are right to point out that we insist, especially when it comes to an EU Member State, that the rules of the rule of law and international law are followed. For countries in the European Union, which is more than a loose link between countries, we need to be more critical in this area than when it comes to countries that are far away and generally do not appreciate much interference. I also hope that all parties will respect the outcome of 21 December. That is, after all, the essence of elections. The right to self-determination is, of course, not a duty of self-government, but it is the right to make that choice. If this can be done within democratic rules, everyone can be expected to respect the outcome of an election. We hope that all parties will do so on 21 December.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-06-54-commissie-ic778x.u28	Minister, the Director General of UNESCO, Irina Bokova, announced on 12 October that she had been informed by the US Secretary of State, Rex Tillerson, of the decision of the United States to withdraw from the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization, accusing this UN institution of being anti-Israeli. This decision would follow UNESCO's designation of the Old City of Hebron in the West Bank occupied as a World Heritage Protected Area. It is home to a population of 200,000 Palestinians and a few hundred Israeli settlers. UNESCO also regularly publishes reports criticizing the Israeli occupation of the Palestinian territories. The Hebrew government announced that it was taking the lead with its American ally and was also withdrawing from UNESCO. Minister, what was Belgium's official response to this decision?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-06-54-commissie-ic778x.u29	Mr Flahaux, as you say, on 12 October, the United States announced its intention to withdraw from UNESCO. This decision is the result of other long-standing expressions of dissatisfaction by the United States with certain decisions related to Palestine that have been taken within the organization. UNESCO is involved in key areas, namely the promotion of peace through education, science and culture. I am thinking in particular of the work on preventing radicalisation through education and culture, as well as the protection of the heritage at risk in the event of armed conflict, a topic that UNESCO has developed particularly in recent years and which we can only support in the current context. These activities directly affect the citizen and contribute to the harmonious and peaceful development of our societies. A multilateral approach is desirable and Belgium is committed to it every day. I regret that it has not been possible to find a sufficient basis of confidence and willingness to remedy certain disputes in order to avoid a withdrawal decision. I hope that the United States and UNESCO will achieve constructive interaction despite this decision. I see an indication of this in Washington's desire to maintain an observer role and thus remain engaged in the work of the organization. No effort will be superfluous to return to the universal vocation of UNESCO. This will require reform that will not lead to less, but better, closer to the organization's mandate. This is the position that Belgium expressed in Paris on 1 November at the UNESCO General Conference. This position was also relayed by my services in contacts with representatives of the United States. As regards the implications of this withdrawal, these will need to be assessed at Belgian level, in particular with the federated entities concerned, which have primary responsibilities in this area. For now, I would say that the important thing is to maintain our commitment and contribute to the restoration of confidence in the organization. I have noted that this is also the priority put forward by the new Director General, Ms. Audrey Azoulay, whom I would like once again to welcome. I have already congratulated him on his appointment. I confirm that we are concerned about the evolution of the position of the new US administration on a number of multilateral issues. I had the opportunity to discuss this situation with US Secretary of State Rex Tillerson during my bilateral visit to Washington. We spoke about this again yesterday as part of the meetings between the European Foreign Ministers and the US Secretary of State. It is clear that, on a number of issues, our concern is that the Americans remain involved in international forums, even if we can of course diverge from the substance of the analyses, or at least continue to participate in international decisions in common. Here, of course, the concern is in fact about the situation in the Middle East. The conflict between Israel and Palestine has been the subject of much debate around UNESCO, with an exit from Israel as well. We expect in the minutes to come to other statements from the new US administration, which will further disturb the landscape in the region. But I believe that it is up to us to defend an institution, to ensure that it functions at best, as close as possible to its mandate. And if possible to convince a partner like the United States to continue to look into it, get involved, and maybe go back to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-06-54-commissie-ic778x.u30	Minister, thank you for your answer. As with the likely announcement in the coming hours about Jerusalem, I think the reaction of the United States is certainly not the right approach. That will only polarize things further. After that, we'll still have to reconnect. This will be all the more difficult given that such strong positions will have been taken by the United States. This does not seem desirable at all.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-06-54-commissie-ic778x.u31	Mr Blanchart, I note that in point 31 there is a whole series of attached questions which deal with the same subject as your question No 21368 on "relief operations in the Mediterranean in territorial waters". I propose that you start the work of our committee next Wednesday with a debate on Libya and the Congo. Today, I will close the committee's work after item 12 of our agenda. Do you agree with my proposal?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-06-54-commissie-ic778x.u32	Yes.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-06-54-commissie-ic778x.u33	That will be the case. Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Pehlivan's 21441 was postponed. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Van der Maelen's 21465 was converted into a written question. I propose that we now deal with Mr Blanchart's two remaining questions and then close the sitting.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-06-54-commissie-ic778x.u34	Mr President, since I will be travelling to Guinea next week, I should like to inform you that my questions Nos 21509, 21510, 21843, 22116, 22123, 22127, 22128, 22141 and 222005 are transformed into written questions. As far as I am concerned, there are three other issues on the agenda that are attached to those of other colleagues. These are questions Nos. 21511, 22141 and 22123, which I cannot transform. They should fall.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-06-54-commissie-ic778x.u35	I took note of that.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-06-54-commissie-ic778x.u36	Mr President, Minister, let me first of all welcome the mission to Guinea of my colleague, to whom I wish good luck and good work. Mr Minister, the Bialowieza forest massif has once again been at the heart of Poland's arms between Poland and the European Union. Indeed, the Court of Justice of the European Union has ordered the end of the logging in the UNESCO and Natura 2000 heritage forests, one of the last "primary" forests in Europe. It is home to more than 20,000 animal species, including endangered species and Europe's only wild bison population. The recent order of the Court of Justice of the European Union states that, unless exceptional circumstances are strictly necessary to ensure public safety, Poland must immediately cease forest management operations active in the Bialowieza forest by threatening that country with a penalty payment of at least EUR 100 000 per day, if it does not comply. Poland replied that it would comply with the EU's provisions, however, by specifying that the protection work of the population would continue in the forest and would be continued by forestry service companies using chainsaws in particular. Minister, this is the first time in the history of the European Union that a Member State has failed to comply with the order of the Court of Justice of the European Union. Are tougher sanctions envisaged against Poland? What kind of sanctions are we talking about? I ask you these questions, knowing that, so far, pressure on Poland in other areas seems to have little effect.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-06-54-commissie-ic778x.u37	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, since the Court of Justice of the European Union issued its interim order in this case on 27 July, Poland has continued to cut down trees in the forest of Bialowieza, claiming to pursue an objective of protecting public security, as authorised by that order. From a legal point of view, at the stage of the interim proceedings, no financial penalty is foreseen to ensure the proper implementation of an order of the Court of Justice. Only a conviction after a second judgment for failure to comply with a first judgment on the merits, on the basis of Article 260(2) of the Treaty, could result in payment of a lump sum and a penalty payment. However, on 13 September, the Commission requested the Court of Justice, in interim proceedings, to provide for a periodic penalty payment as an interim measure in order to ensure the full effectiveness of a possible termination decision. In its order of 20 November confirming Poland's cessation of its forestry management operations until the decision on the merits of the case, except for reasons of public security, the Court granted this request – a first in its case law – by condemning Poland to pay a minimum of EUR 100,000 per day of periodic penalty payment in case of breach of this prohibition. I think there is a real will on the part of the European Commission to put a stop, if not a stop, to the logging and felling of trees in the Bialowieza forest. It will of course be necessary for the discussion to continue not only before the courts, but probably through direct contacts with the Polish authorities.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-06-54-commissie-ic778x.u38	Minister, thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-06-54-commissie-ic778x.u39	Minister, in the face of international pressure and the threat of sanctions from the European Union, last July the Polish President put his double veto on the very controversial judicial reform undertaken by his party. In September, the President presented proposals for this reform, which mitigated the radicality of the original bills but did not satisfy either the opposition or the ultra-conservative majority from which the President came and with which he was in conflict since that double veto. An arm of iron is thus announced between PiS President Jaroslaw Kaczynski and President Andrzej Duda. For its part, the opposition considers these proposals insufficient and, of course, unconstitutional. In addition, it denounces a reform devoting political power to the judiciary, under the pretext of sanitizing a system that has favoured a caste of corrupt judges. The European Commission examines the proposals announced by the Polish President, which include only part of the texts in the Brussels collimator. For the past year, Warsaw has rejected all the Commission's recommendations on the reform of the Constitutional Court and the judicial system. In the absence of satisfaction by the end of the year, the Commission could initiate the procedure under Article 7 of the Treaty of the European Union. Minister, what is the view of Belgian diplomacy on the new proposals of the Polish President? What is our country's attitude in the Council? What about the follow-up to the other recommendations addressed to Poland by the European Union? The idea of touching Poland on the portfolio to make it respect the rule of law was discussed in front of the recent European Council of Ministers in Brussels. What about this question?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-06-54-commissie-ic778x.u40	Mr Blanchart, dated 27 July 2016 and 21 December 2016, the European Commission addressed two recommendations to Poland, as part of the rule of law procedure. These recommendations were in response to concerns related in particular to the reform of the Constitutional Court. Since the Polish Government did not, according to the Commission, provide a satisfactory response to these recommendations, the question was referred to the General Affairs Council in May 2016. Many Member States, including Belgium, supported the Commission's action and called on the Polish Government to continue its dialogue with the Commission with a view to a solution. On 26 July 2017, the Commission addressed a third additional recommendation to Poland on four legislative acts adopted by the Polish Parliament which, in its view, would increase the systemic threat to the rule of law. These laws concern, respectively, the Supreme Court, the National Council of the Judiciary, the organization of ordinary courts and the National School of the Judiciary. The last two have entered into force. The Commission has also introduced infringement proceedings on the basis of European law concerning the third law. On the other hand, the laws relating to the National Council of the Judiciary and the Supreme Court were vetoed by President Duda, who submitted amended bills on 25 September. Meanwhile, an agreement has been reached between President Duda and the Justice and Law Party on these bills. The Polish opposition insists on the unconstitutionality of these projects. Discussions in the Polish Parliament are still ongoing. These proposals are currently being examined, in particular by the European Commission services. It therefore seems to me premature to give an assessment already. However, regardless of the Commission's assessment of these amended bills, the Commission's recommendations have not been implemented. The General Affairs Council of 25 September therefore returned to the issue. Once again, the European Commission has received the support of a very large number of Member States. I, for my part, recalled that respect for the rule of law was not only a matter for the European Parliament but also a matter for the Council. The action of the European Commission is therefore legitimate, but the Council's follow-up is also legitimate. The Polish authorities must take the dialogue with the Commission seriously. A written response to the Commission's arguments is not sufficient. The Council intervenes to verify compliance with budgetary obligations. As I have already told you, why would he not do so either for the sake of respect for the rule of law and fundamental rights? Beyond the Polish case, I remain convinced that the regular assessment of respect for the rule of law by all Member States as proposed by Belgium would be fully justified. I note that we are receiving more and more support from the Member States and also from the European Parliament in this direction. The Commission, in its 2018 programme, introduced the idea of examining this possibility of a general review also in the field of the rule of law. I believe that this would allow us to act much more preventively than what is happening at the moment and above all in a more equitable way, because all the Member States of the Union would be targeted without waiting for an exceptional situation in one of them. However, we will continue to monitor the Polish situation. I know that we have a divergence on the subject, that you would like the Belgian government and parliament to take direct attitudes. We are following a procedure by supporting the Commission. It is really through the work of the Commission that we must put pressure on the Polish government and at some point get it to comply with the recommendations. But I would like to repeat that I would prefer to have more general supervision of the rule of law in all the Member States of the Union. I don't hope one day we get there.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-06-54-commissie-ic778x.u41	Thank you, Minister, for your answer. However, Poland is literally flouting the fundamental values of the European Union. With each warning, it opposes total nihilism in the face of the shared values of the European Union. This is all the more worrying given that Poland is the largest net beneficiary of the European Union's budget. Indeed, between 2007 and 2020, i.e. the duration of two financial frameworks, it will have received the substantial sum of EUR 150 billion. Would that not give us the feeling that Poland takes the European Union as a cash drawer, completely neglecting the democratic values of the latter? This is totally unacceptable. And I continue to believe that the Belgian government should also put pressure directly on the Polish government. This may have more impact than via the European Union.
