ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-04-54-commissie-ic700x.u1	Madam Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, I propose that we begin the sitting. Many questions have been converted into written questions. The first question, question No. 18859 by Ms Kattrin Jadin, will be addressed to Minister De Croo. If you'll allow me, I'll ask my own question from the chair.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-04-54-commissie-ic700x.u2	Madam Secretary of State, the Institute for Equality between Women and Men has taken stock of reports on gender discrimination. The 2016 balance sheet does not look positive. Compared to 2015, the number of notifications increased by 18%. In particular, the increase in the number of complaints about work-related discrimination is striking. The Institute itself states that the number of notifications and complaints is due to the higher awareness of the Institute. If that is true, the Institute must gain even more fame, given that there is still an under-reporting in the field of sexism and discrimination. I would like to ask you the following questions concerning the figures. First of all, do you share the Institute's analysis? In what way will you ensure that the Institute gains even more fame? What concrete initiatives will you take to further address under-reporting in the field of sexism and discrimination? Secondly, the figures show that 2% more men have found their way to the Institute. The increase is therefore smaller than for women. How do you explain that? What will you do to encourage men who are victims of discrimination to join the Institute? The Institute now has more complaints and notifications to process. This is a trend that has been systematically pursued over the past few years. As a result, will you make more resources available to the Institute? If not, why not? If so, how many resources, and when do you plan them? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-04-54-commissie-ic700x.u3	Colleague Van Hoof, it is indeed possible that the increase in the number of notifications and complaints received by the Institute in 2016 is due to the higher awareness of the Institute. At the moment, my cabinet is working both on a awareness campaign on sexism and on the Federal Action Plan Gender and Work. As far as your second question is concerned, one possible explanation is that, at all stages of working life, women in the largest area where complaints are received by the Institute, namely work, indicate that they are victims of discrimination. In the case of men, reports are mainly limited to unequal treatment in recruitment. The fact that women can become victims of discrimination at more times during their careers could explain the higher number of reports of women. In your third question, you say that the Institute has more complaints and notifications to process and that this trend has continued systematically in recent years. You ask whether and when more resources will be available. I think by means of these resources you mean more budget. I can answer that I am pleased that more people are finding their way to the Institute for Equality between Women and Men, but I would like to ask you to be careful in dealing with the demand for more resources or more budget. I think we should compare this with other countries. Some benchmarking is not wrong. As you know, we in our country are always good at setting up all kinds of bodies, which are then subsidised and which have to deal with all possible forms of discrimination. However, we note that discrimination is apparently not being dealt with properly, because at the moment, fellow ministers are proposing mystery calls and practical tests. For this reason, I believe that before we ask for more resources, we should first compare them with other countries. In my opinion, the Netherlands has always played a good leading role in the field of discrimination. Well, in the Netherlands there is the College of Human Rights and that one institution is competent for any form of discrimination. In Belgium there are at least three independent institutions in the fight against discrimination, namely Unia, Myria and the Institute for the Equality of Women and Men. The latter should study and tackle discrimination between women and men. In addition to these three institutions, we know in Belgium the Privacy Commission, the Committee I and the Committee P, the Central Supervisory Board for the Prisoners and the Children's Rights Commission. I now confine myself to the federal and interfederal institutions, the three institutions I mentioned: Unia, Myria and the Institute for the Equality of Women and Men. In addition, there is also a need to monitor human rights and, with my colleague, Minister Geens, I am thinking about how we can organise this. Let us now compare it with the Netherlands. I added the 2006 Annual Report of the College of Human Rights. I read that in the Netherlands this institution has 53 employees, with a budget of EUR 6.74 million. I think we can say that the Netherlands has always played a leading role in the field of equality legislation and its enforcement and in the field of employment of women and people with a migration background. Let us now look at Belgium. In Belgium, Unia has 106 full-time employees, Myria has 15 full-time employees and the Institute for Equality between Women and Men has 38 full-time employees. Together they have a budget of almost EUR 15 million. In the Netherlands, the College of Human Rights has 53 employees and 6.74 million euros. In Belgium there are at least three institutions, a total of 106 plus 15 plus 38 employees, a total budget of 15 million euros. I would therefore like to be careful before talking about extra budget and additional resources. Perhaps we should look at these three institutions. When we look at the task package, I think that these three institutions together have sufficient staff and resources to make themselves known to the public and to carry out the tasks assigned to them properly. At the moment, I would rather say that we should perhaps consider whether we can organise it more efficiently. After all, we are releasing a great deal of money, EUR 15 million. That's a lot of money, especially compared to the Netherlands. We must also remember the human rights mechanism, which we must also set up. So let us be careful, above all, and let us look at where efficiency gains are and how we can ensure that these three institutions may work together a little bit more rather than side by side. After all, you know that women's rights are sometimes also affected by religious rights. Religion is at Unia, women's rights are at the Institute for the Equality of Women and Men. And sometimes there are different statements there. So perhaps we should work together more and look at efficiency gains rather than just saying that we are going to increase budgets.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-04-54-commissie-ic700x.u4	Thank you for your comprehensive reply, Madam Secretary of State. It is worth a debate, but I shall confine myself to an initial response. You say that the Netherlands is an example. You know that women work part-time in the Netherlands because of the lack of childcare. So there is some discrimination between men and women. There is also no equality of pay due to the large number of part-time jobs. Due to the school system, leave also varies according to the region. There's not enough childcare. The comparison with the Netherlands with regard to equality between men and women does not go far enough. It is better to look at the European level. Europe obliges us to set up an Institute for Equality between Women and Men to conduct independent investigations and complaints. There is a Gender Institute at European level. It is not for nothing that the fish are not drowned in a global crossroads. I cannot agree with that idea of crossroads, because I have already found that the fish is drowned in that crossroads thinking, when it comes to equality between men and women. That is the least we can do about it. Last week, too, this was confirmed by an explanatory statement in the Social Emancipation Advisory Committee. The theme of equality between men and women is drowned when it is placed under a global umbrella of cross-border thinking or unequal treatment in general. You really have to be careful about that. We must also compare at European level and not just take the Dutch example. I can understand why you're looking at efficiency. We need to look at how best we can achieve our objective. However, cross-border thinking does not seem to be the solution to equality between men and women. Let me look at it in principle. So I wouldn't drown the fish as a whole. We also need to look at what the Gender Institute in Lithuania is doing today and ensure that these issues are addressed separately, so that equality between men and women is also addressed by the federal government. I look forward to what the Human Rights Institute will mean. I understand that we need to be able to speak with one voice internationally and that the Human Rights Institute can be a solution to this, because it will better coordinate these matters. However, this does not mean that the problem of equality between men and women at national level should be dealt with as the Institute becomes more well-known and there are more reports and complaints. We need to involve people, above all, at local level. Afterwards, it is possible to publish according to the various expertises.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-04-54-commissie-ic700x.u5	Questions Nos 19117 and 19118 by Mrs Nahima Lanjri have been converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-04-54-commissie-ic700x.u6	Madam Secretary of State, my question dates from shortly after the outbreak of the scandal at the Samusocial homeless organisation. When it appeared that the members of the Governing Council together received some €60,000 in seats over the past year. Among those involved were PS-leaders such as Mayor Yvan Mayeur and OCMW-leader Pascale Peraita. Following the presentation of my question, much more has come to light in the press. One could speak of a kind of self-service by certain people within the PS, not only for themselves but also for direct family members. Samusocial also receives federal subsidies intended for winter shelter in the second line of homeless people. Madam Secretary of State, I would have liked to have received an answer from you to a few questions. In the meantime, is there complete clarity about the fees to the Samusocial drivers? Is there full transparency about the correct money flows in the non-profit organisation? Was or wasn't federal money used to pay the drivers? A second question. What is your opinion on the generous compensations that the directors take on? Is this compatible with the selfless purpose of the non-profit organisation and the commitment of numerous volunteers? Thirdly, will there also be an independent investigation from the federal level to detect and rule out possible abuses in the future?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-04-54-commissie-ic700x.u7	Mr Van der Donkt, a great deal has already been written and said about this. There's a lot of research going on about Samusocial. I have already said in plenary that what happened there at the Samusocial summit, because let's not forget that the social assistants, the aid workers and the volunteers are actually working day in, day out of, day out, 100%, especially in the case of seat badges, is quite scandalous. A number of people have now resigned. You already refer to that in your question. I can answer your first two questions as follows. The federal government has been funding Samusocial for several years. As far as my competence is concerned, we are financing second-line homeless shelter in Brussels. With my administration and my cabinet, I have always been careful that the sums of money we transfer, the subsidies we give to Samusocial, go to the homeless. The grants are for night care, a sleeping place, a shower, the first medical care and nutrition. Samusocial must also provide the cabinet with a final report on his activities every year. I haven't received the report this year. We have not yet received it, but we will check on a regular basis whether the subsidies we have given to Samusocial have indeed gone to the homeless. As far as your question on the generous remuneration of directors is concerned, both the Prime Minister and myself have already replied in plenary. We must always pay attention. Samusocial is so far a private organization. In any case, I think that an organisation that works with so many grants is better placed under a government. Then there's some control. On the board of directors were also only directors of PS signature. In any case, anyone who assigns seats to himself to that extent, knowing that this money actually serves for people who don't even have a roof over their heads, should consider as a person, not just as a politician, and look in the mirror at night to see if he is still feeling well. What did I do? On 7 June, I asked the Treasury Inspectorate for a thorough review of the federal subsidies we give to the Samusocial association. Later that week a mandate was given by the Council of Ministers to Minister Wilmès to extend that investigation to other federal subsidies to the non-profit organization Samusocial, because not only am I but other colleagues, such as Theo Francken and Maggie De Block from their powers, give subsidies to Samusocial. I can also tell you that a parliamentary committee of inquiry was set up within the Brussels Parliament. You will understand that I wish to await the outcome of all this before I take any further position. I'd like to receive Samusocial's final report before this year's homeless shelter. Mr Wilmès is also engaged in an extensive investigation. An order was given to the Treasury Inspectorate. Let us wait and see before taking any further steps. As far as the homeless shelter in Brussels is concerned, I will not cut the budget. We will also continue to organise this homeless shelter, because the homeless must not be the victims of the whole jousting that is taking place at Brussels level.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-04-54-commissie-ic700x.u8	Madam Secretary of State, your answer reassures me and I will not go into this further.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-04-54-commissie-ic700x.u9	As we are still in the happy expectation of Mr Gilles Vanden Burre and Mr Gautier Calomne, I propose that we proceed to the following questions. Debates of the European Parliament 19300 by Mrs Nahima Lanjri will be converted into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Van der Donkt's 19305 is hereby withdrawn. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Jean-Jacques Flahaux's 1946 report was converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-04-54-commissie-ic700x.u10	Madam Secretary of State, last week and yesterday we were told in the media that you are taking two initiatives on summer holidays to step up the fight against female genital mutilation. You are working on a reporting code to ensure that genital mutilation allows more professionals to exercise their right to speak and that they do not remain silent as a precaution. Together with the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Didier Reynders, the travel advice for twenty-four countries at risk was adapted. Travellers are made clear that anyone who commits, facilitates or promotes genital mutilation on a minor is at risk of persecution in our country, even if the mutilation has taken place abroad. So it's a warning. However, in order to harden them, you look in the direction of the medical world. The number of reports by doctors of genital mutilation is, to date, unacceptable. Contrary to what many doctors believe, reporting cases of genital mutilation is not a violation of professional secrecy. That is why I have the following questions. As a result of your policy paper, you have already indicated that you support my proposal on the extension of professional secrecy, including in the case of adult women and the registration of the number of cases. Firstly, can you clarify what the reporting code is made of? How does she respond to a case-by-case consultation introduced by Minister Geens? Secondly, how do you guarantee that those involved consult the travel advice? Thirdly, I have another recommendation. Would it not be better to act as in the Netherlands I should refer positively to the Netherlands, where asylum seekers from countries at risk are immediately informed about the policy of persecution in this area? An interesting project has been carried out, supported by the European Union. It's called "Men Speak Out." After all, we must involve men in the whole process. The project has much better results in the Netherlands than in Belgium in the prevalence of female genital mutilation. They will be better informed. At the time they enter the Netherlands, the asylum procedure indicates that such mutilation is punishable in the Netherlands. An attempt is being made to actively involve men in workshops to make it clear to them that what is going on is not possible. They are not usually aware of the fact that genital mutilation entails such health risks. There's just no talking about it in a family. That is what the study has shown, and that is very interesting. We are also working on a project in collaboration with GAMS. That deserves more attention. After all, without involving the men, we will not get there. Are you considering consultation with your colleague, Mr Francken? It would be very interesting to work in this way and therefore to have an information policy from the outset and thus to make it clear to residents of countries where the prevalence is highest that this is an unacceptable practice, that they have to talk about it within their families and ensure that it does not happen to their children.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-04-54-commissie-ic700x.u11	Mrs Van Hoof, I had indeed referred to your legislative proposal during my policy statement, but I think other Members have also tabled other legislative proposals concerning female genital mutilation. Suddenly I get a lot of questions about the male circumcision. However, we must set priorities and the first is to combat female genital mutilation. I have indeed launched a call to the doctors to report cases of female genital mutilation. This is already covered by their right to speak, in the light of Article 458a of the Criminal Code. Article 422a in relation to negligence may also apply. Your bill extends the right to speak, and I can only encourage that. I therefore hope that the amendments on which the Council of State's comments could have been made can be quickly amended so that this proposal can become law. In this respect, too, I gain inspiration in the Netherlands. The following system is envisaged in the context of partner violence. In concrete terms, a simple sheet of one page clearly explaining what can and cannot be done, so that doctors can immediately decide when certain matters can be reported. In case of doubt, a reporting code shall be used for a few steps, after which doctors may decide whether or not to report a fact of intra-family violence. There was already a consultation with the various professional associations last year. As soon as the reporting code is completed, I would also like to extend this to sexual violence and genital mutilation, of course in consultation with the professional groups. The extension of the right to speak under your bill fits perfectly into the reporting code and will therefore be included in the one pager, as not all professionals know or apply the legislation here either. The purpose of the notification code is not to enable a case-by-case consultation. Case consultations, as provided for in Article 428b of the Criminal Code, must be established either by law or by decree, or locally by the authorization of the Prosecutor of the King. Here too, the reporting code may refer to the possibility of a case consultation. I don't think this contradicts each other. The adaptation of the travel advice was an explicit question from civil society because it can help parents who are under pressure from the community to circumcise their daughter. When they are on holiday in the home country, they can tell the community that if they mutilate their daughter, they risk being severely persecuted in Belgium. The fact that they can be punished is already a good deterrent for them and for their community. The adaptation itself was also discussed with civil society, allowing them to spread it further. I intend to spread this measure further to schools and other organisations that can detect such matters. As part of the implementation of the National Action Plan to combat all forms of gender-based violence, many measures have already been taken to improve the management of genital mutilation among asylum seekers. From April to June 2017, the GAMS vzw gave formations on female genital mutilation to the staff of Fedasil and the Red Cross. It is crucial to be able to follow such training before informing the asylum seekers themselves. I agree with you that the Men Speak Out project has a positive impact and I intend to consult with my colleague, Secretary of State Francken, to implement that project with asylum seekers in Belgium, now that the staff of Fedasil and of the Red Cross are behind us.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-04-54-commissie-ic700x.u12	Madam Secretary of State, I am pleased with your answer. A holistic approach, involving prevention, awareness raising and repression as a whole, is needed to ensure that these practices disappear. Repression does indeed work preventively and sensitisingly. As you say, people are terrified when they say on the spot that it is being punished in Belgium. There is often no criminal law of their own, as in Mali. It is important that we raise awareness in this way. As far as punishment is concerned, of course one will not report one's own mother, aunt or grandmother. That's the big problem. How do you deal with that? I think that reporting code is interesting, but even more interesting is the case discussion. For example, if children from those countries come to Child & Family, they will be followed up. After a while, however, they do not come anymore. Then how is that followed? That's the question that general practitioners also ask themselves. With the case-by-case consultation, we can ensure that all networks are closed, in order to follow the family as well. Once the family is no longer succeeded by Child & Family, what happens to the child? The case-by-case consultation could be a very interesting tool in this area, especially for the practice of genital mutilation, to ensure that those families are followed, not only if the children are less than three years old but also in new births, and this together with the gynecologist. It is only at those moments that we find genital mutilation, not at other times. The case-by-case consultation could be very useful in this respect. Thirdly, you mentioned the associations GAMS and Intact. They are doing very useful work, and I am not saying that to spawn them, but it is because it is very important that organisations cooperate with these women on the ground. One cannot only work with the punitive white finger. In Antwerp, shelters are working on it, but that is far too far for West Flanders. We must work very hard on the ground to inform asylum seekers from those countries that once they are integrated here, they cannot do such practices. In Kenya, for example, people have been very sensitive and are no longer mutilated, but when women get married they are once again considered not clean and so that practice is applied at a later age. Hence the bill to extend this to adult women, since the practice is going to shift to a later age, which is not the intention. We must be very alert, including for older women. It's a good thing you're quoting Men Speak Out. We need to get the men involved. They are usually unaware and fall from the sky. It's the women who do it for the sake of men, but it's not mentioned. It is interesting to work on this and also to involve men in the project in Belgium.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-04-54-commissie-ic700x.u13	Madam Secretary of State, the Institute for Equality between Women and Men has recently published the wage gap report for 2017. This shows that the same patterns that have been identified in recent years continue to exist. They are mainly outdated gender stereotypes that are at the root of the pay gap. They have a decisive influence on the study and career paths of boys and girls, and still steer the unequal distribution of care tasks in the family. The findings from the pay gap report that I find most striking are the following. The gender pay gap is the largest among the highly educated. Single mothers with children earn the least as a group. Women from Maghreb countries earn the least of the different origins, followed by women from other African countries. Moreover, they also earn less than men of the same origin. The Institute's most striking policy recommendations, in my view, are to give greater competence to the Social Inspectorate on all forms of discrimination in enterprises, to improve the balance between work and family for both women and men, to address segregation in the labour market in the roots, namely in the outdated gender stereotypes and in both directions, not only for the stereotypes that affect women, but also for the clichés that affect men. That is why I would like to ask the following questions. Do you agree with the Institute's recommendations on the wider competence of the Social Inspectorate for all forms of discrimination? If so, how far do you think this can go? How will you work on this dossier with your colleague, the Minister of Work, Kris Peeters? How do you intend to combat gender stereotypes from your jurisdiction? Are there any additional measures in view of the persistence of these clichés? Will your Action Plan Gender At Work combat these stereotypes? If so, how do you intend to do that? By when can we expect the action plan?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-04-54-commissie-ic700x.u14	Mrs Van Hoof, your questions are related to the wage gap report recently published by the Institute for Equality between Women and Men. The figures published are worrying and show that the problem of gender inequality is far from resolved. In part, however, the large number of reports can be explained by a greater awareness of the Institute. As regards the possible amendment of anti-discrimination legislation, on 19 June the evaluation report of the Committee of Experts on federal anti-discrimination legislation was forwarded to the Federal Chambers. In accordance with Article 52 (1) of the Law on combating certain forms of discrimination, the implementation of this evaluation shall be entrusted to Parliament. This Article provides that every five years from the entry into force of this law, the legislative chambers shall evaluate the application and effectiveness of that law, as well as the law of 10 May 2007 to combat discrimination between women and men, and the law of 30 July 1981 to punish certain acts of racism or xenophobia. You know that anti-discrimination legislation should have been evaluated by my predecessors, including Mrs Milquet. We have failed to do so, and that is why we have asked an expert committee to carry out this evaluation. The cabinet pulled that off. There has also been a great deal of talk about translation, and I regret that. A very comprehensive evaluation report had been prepared by that committee, but then the question arose as to who would translate it. You should know that we had transferred a budget of EUR 25 000, but a million Belgian francs, to the person who would provide the secretariat for that evaluation report. That was Unia, which received a further EUR 25 000 on top of the ordinary grants to deal with the secretariat of that evaluation. Then there was a lot of tamtam because there was no translation. I am very sorry because I had to read all that in the newspapers. I therefore contacted the President of the Chamber immediately because the report was intended for the Federal Chambers. I asked whether the services here could perhaps provide the translation and I would like to thank the services of the Chamber for having provided that translation. That translation is done. The evaluation report of the experts on anti-discrimination legislation is ready. It is now up to the Court to judge or hold hearings. My cabinet is also working on the preparation of a Federal Action Plan Gender and Work. This action plan is structured around five priority and complementary axes. A first axis concerns the fight against gender discrimination in the labour market, with a view to improving the protection of women in pregnancy and maternity at work. A second axis concerns the deconstruction of gender stereotyping in the labour market. A focus here is on breaking the pattern of roles, both in low-skilled jobs and in jobs in scientific directions. The various contributions from civil society are currently being analysed. We're working on a design. Together with my partners in the federal government, I want to see what opportunities we have to implement this action plan. I am in favour of making the fight against discrimination in the labour market a priority. However, we must avoid holding the debate unilaterally, because discrimination in the labour market has to do with different components. We cannot say that employers are only discriminated against. We must also look at the candidate, the language, the education and so on. That is also why we need to step up our efforts. At the time, as a Member of Parliament with the majority parties, I drew up a resolution on this matter. The fight against discrimination in the labour market must be pursued in mutual trust and in consultation with the social partners, because it is the social partners, and especially employers, who need to be crossed to make that a point. The system of self-regulation and self-control is also important. This needs to be worked out and deadlines set. In the event of discrimination, an adjustment is necessary. I have always said that within this context of self-control and self-regulation, there can be scope for targeted controls against hard learners. Following the resolution introducing targeted checks on discrimination in the labour market, adopted by the majority parties on 22 May 2015, my colleague Kris Peeters has prepared a draft law. On 15 June 2017, I informed my colleague Peeters that I was prepared to discuss this. I regret, however, that I read today in De Standaard that employers' organisations are sitting still when it comes to this problem. That's not true. That's not right. I know that employers' organisations are working together on a broadly supported action plan on discrimination. I understand that we will be hearing the details very soon. I look forward to it. I told employers' organisations that they should develop a system of self-regulation and self-control. As far as I know, they are working on this and will be able to go through the details very quickly with us. I'll wait for the results. I suspect my colleague Kris Peeters is doing the same. As far as discrimination is concerned, there is also reverse discrimination. A question was put in this committee about the fact that a worker refused to work with a gay couple. I think that's discrimination, too. This is a phenomenon, as I understand it from Federgon and Unia, that we do not have to dramatize yet, but we live in a multicultural society and that phenomenon is increasing. This form of discrimination also exists, a worker who works through service cheques and who says she does not want to work in a gay couple. That has happened effectively. That too is discrimination. Of course, that is not possible either.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-04-54-commissie-ic700x.u15	Madam Secretary of State, thank you for your comprehensive reply. I believe that we should thank the services for the translation on the evaluation of discrimination legislation, which will enable us to continue the debate. Following this evaluation, there will be a hearing on work and women in the Social Emancipation Committee this afternoon. There are several opportunities to continue this debate. For the finalisation of your Federal Action Plan Gender and Work there is no timing, so I've heard. That plan's gonna stick?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-04-54-commissie-ic700x.u16	It has yet to be done to Mr Vandeput and to Mr Peeters. That's why it's a little hard to determine timing. I can assure you that I will keep the necessary pace.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-04-54-commissie-ic700x.u17	I know, Madam Secretary of State, that you are looking primarily at employers and that you want them to self-regulation. We've been waiting a long time. The time spent research carried out by the VUB, among others, repeatedly indicates that the persistent division of labour between men and women continues and continues in the labour market. I believe that we absolutely must pursue gender stereotyping campaigns, not so much aimed at women but also at men. There are many good examples of men taking care tasks. They are coming out more and more, and we need to support them, so that the click can be made that jobs can be taken up by men and women, and that, while we are now being a little too easy to address women, we are also going to address men. Supporting what breaks through the large patterns could be innovative compared to the past forty years. It is also an element of ethnicity and persistent stereotyping in this area. Only 30% of them are on the labour market, which also explains the pay gap. I know you're sensitive to that. I hope you don't let go of the theme. You already wanted it in your capacity as a Member of Parliament, but now, in your capacity as Secretary of State, you can move stones. I would therefore like to call on you to continue with the dossier, including in your capacity as Secretary of State. There is indeed the element of self-regulation, but that does not prevent the instruments of government that can leverage and ensure that employers spontaneously, through these levers, incorporate that mentality. I know that you are not in favour of quotas. Quotas, however, have ensured that that spontaneity is present today. Perhaps quotas will then become superfluous. The same applies to other instruments in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-04-54-commissie-ic700x.u18	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Gautier Calomne's 19266 question was converted into a written question. We have come to the end of our agenda.
