ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-plenair-ip204x.u1	The meeting is open. The meeting was opened.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-plenair-ip204x.u2	Mr President, we have already had the opportunity to mention the need to have the Prime Minister among us to discuss the energy pact. The majority's response was that the Prime Minister was retained by international work in Paris. You have yourself, on three occasions, had contact with his collaborators. They told you that you didn't have the opportunity to bring him in because he had international obligations. However, various colleagues had the opportunity to see the Prime Minister answer questions at the Midi station on his return from Paris at around 6 p.m. It was on the news at 7:00 p.m. This means that, contrary to what we have been told, the Prime Minister is indeed present, which is why we have been working together among group leaders. That was not our original intention since you did the steps we asked you to do. But seeing the Prime Minister in Brussels when we were told that he was on an international meeting in France, it went too far! So we made the decision to table a standing motion under rule 50, which I will bring to you and which you will read. Mr President, I ask you to hold the vote immediately on this motion, so that we can see if there is still a majority in support of the government. Mr President, I am speaking to you and not to the government. According to the Rules of Procedure, colleagues can speak if necessary but not the government.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-plenair-ip204x.u3	Mr President, you will have understood that this is a common approach. It is, of course, much easier for a prime minister to speak alone on television than to come here to take a position that is no longer very well identified. As I said earlier, I think that the Prime Minister is mainly unable to come here today to defend a common position of his government, since the least we can say is that there are none. On the contrary, it can be observed that the Prime Minister's statement in today's communiqué is 180° from the one put forward by the N-VA in the House. I heard my colleague Jean-Marc Nollet say that there was no doubt about the time. I'll go a little further. I grabbed a screenshot from RTL's report, Mr. President. It was at 5:20 p.m. that the Prime Minister was at the Midi railway station in Brussels. Throughout this time, the majority – in which Mr.Clarinval and his group sit – made us believe that the Prime Minister was in Paris. We could conceive it. Moreover, we had even agreed that he would come to defend the government's position within even the seventy-two hours. No, no, no, no, no, He was in Brussels, a few steps from here! This means that he has not dared to assume the absence of a common position within the government.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-plenair-ip204x.u4	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-plenair-ip204x.u5	Words, words! None of your partners other than the N-VA spoke today. In this case, with regard to nuclear power and the energy pact, your positions are diametrically opposed. Therefore, Mr President, it is a nominative vote on this motion that we are asking for.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-plenair-ip204x.u6	Mr President, I am not addressing the majority, I am addressing you, as chairman of the entire Assembly, of opposition and majority. Frankly, Mr President, if you do not take an initiative today, I do not remember. We've been a asking party for a long time. All the arguments we have heard do not matter anymore. If he's in the country, you can take him up. In fact, today you must show that you are chairman of all the members of this Assembly and that you will not allow his absence. Honestly, it is a sign of disdain for the whole of Parliament if he does not come here today.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-plenair-ip204x.u7	Mr President, we have tried three times to convince the Prime Minister to come to Parliament for an exchange of views, an explanation. On several occasions, we have been told that it is impossible for him to go there. Among the reasons given, particularly in the Conference of Presidents, I think I do not betray any secrets: he was held in Paris by a whole series of obligations, which Mr Clarinval stressed that they were important to him. We now learn that he is in Brussels. Does that mean that we haven't told the truth in parliament? Mr President, does this mean that you have been misinformed? At such a level of responsibility, we cannot imagine that things are not done deliberately. This is a matter of obvious seriousness as to whether or not Parliament has been deliberately misled. That must be clarified. The credibility of the institution, your credibility, Mr. President. For the rest, in view of your efforts, it was not our intention to request by motion, on the basis of rule 50, the presence of the Prime Minister. But you don't give us a choice anymore! I therefore ask you, Mr President, to put this to the vote as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-plenair-ip204x.u8	Mr President, I cannot allow this speech to pass, which would imply that I would not have told the truth. I repeat what I said. It has always been said that the Prime Minister was in Paris and that he was coming back during the night. I always said I didn't know what time he'd be home. I didn't book his train ticket. I said that tomorrow a Kern was scheduled and that the Prime Minister could not be in two places at the same time. I cannot therefore accept this statement, which claims that we did not speak the truth here or at the Conference of Presidents.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-plenair-ip204x.u9	Mr President, I regard the Prime Minister's attitude as a lack of respect for our institution. I'm deeply touched. On the other hand, I also consider the opposition's attitude to be disrespectful by not asking myself whether or not I wanted to sign their motion. It is easy to give democracy lessons to others, but the opposition should also sweep in front of its door. I will therefore not support the motion of the opposition.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-plenair-ip204x.u10	Mr President, I do not want Mr Clarinval to feel uncomfortable. I think the Prime Minister has had the delicacy to wait until nightfall to return to Brussels so that Mr Clarinval's words are not denied. Nevertheless, the Prime Minister is here! We live in a country where there is still lighting and the work does not stop at nightfall! Nothing prevents the Prime Minister from joining us. I dare to believe, even if his schedule requires him to take on particularly heavy international duties, that at this still reasonable hour he can free himself to spend an hour or an hour and a half with us to debate on an essential issue that has marked political life today. A little consideration for the democratic debate by inviting the Prime Minister to respect the whole parliament, the majority and opposition, would allow the majority to gain some respect for the opposition.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-plenair-ip204x.u11	Mr President, I was not aiming at Mr Clarinval when I asked whether we had been properly and properly informed. Rather, I was targeting those who, at times, informed you, you, or the people you had mandated to contact the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-plenair-ip204x.u12	Mr Laaouej, I was just going to answer that point. I have not been misinformed or misinformed by the Prime Minister or his associates. I did not ask where he was at hour A and then at hour B; I did ask if he had the opportunity to come to Parliament to talk to us about the Energy Pact. I got the answer that I couldn't. Wherever the Prime Minister is, if he sees reasons that prevent him from coming here, then so be it. (...): (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-plenair-ip204x.u13	That may be your conviction, but I do not feel called to be the watchdog of any kind, certainly not of the Prime Minister. Colleagues, I have received a motion signed by Messrs. Jean-Marc Nollet, Ahmed Laaouej and Olivier Maingain and Ms Meryame Kitir and Ms Catherine Fonck, which read as follows: "- In the face of the political situation surrounding the energy pact dossier and the deep differences existing within the majority, - having regard to the presence of the Prime Minister on Belgian soil, We ask that the Prime Minister be present immediately in plenary on the basis of Rule 50." I have received a motion signed by Mr Jean-Marc Nollet, Mr Ahmed Laaouej and Mr Olivier Maingain and Mrs Meryame Kitrir and Catherine Fonck, which reads as follows: "- Given the political situation surrounding the Energy Pact dossier and its deep division within the majority, - having regard to the presence of the Prime Minister on the Belgian territory, We ask that the Prime Minister's presence in plenary be immediately requested under Rule 50 of the Rules of Procedure." We have the Rule 50, which means that we are going to vote on this motion. I would ask those who support the motion to vote in favour. You asked for a nominative vote. Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes [[19]] Yes No. [[20]] No Abstentions 2 Abstensions Total 41 Total
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-plenair-ip204x.u14	Ladies and gentlemen, I note that we are not in number to make a valid decision. I must therefore apply the Rules of Procedure (Rule 42). The sitting is adjourned. We'll take it back at 21:25. The meeting is adjourned. The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-plenair-ip204x.u15	The sitting has resumed. The meeting was resumed. Ladies and gentlemen, as provided for in the Rules of Procedure, we must now vote on the motion a second time, as I have just read out to you. I propose that we proceed immediately to the vote. Anyone who supports the motion on the progress of the Prime Minister will now vote in favour. Anyone who does not support them will vote against it. The rest may be able to abstain. Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 2) Yes [[8]] Yes No. 31 No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 0 Total Colleagues, I note that once again we are not in number to decide validly. The result is that we will resume the sitting tomorrow. Therefore, tomorrow at 2:15 p.m., we resume the vote on the same motion. Secondly, to be clear, we continue first with the oral questions and then with the budgetary debate. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Thursday 14 December 2017 at 2.15 p.m. The meeting is adjourned. Next sitting on Thursday, 14 December 2017 at 2.15 p.m.
