ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-18-54-commissie-ic784x.u1	Mr Verjans, you will be the first speaker to speak? How much time have you planned?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-18-54-commissie-ic784x.u2	Twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-18-54-commissie-ic784x.u3	Fantastic! That's what we like to hear. Could everyone just stick to that time? I have always been taught that someone who speaks succinctly gets the most result. I know about Mrs. Kitir. I would just like to say that an integral report of the hearing is being prepared.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-18-54-commissie-ic784x.u4	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have tried with the trade unions to coordinate at least this so that we do not overlap. We have divided the tasks. Thank you for the invitation, but in all honesty we would also have liked to have heard about other matters of the draft law, including the draft programme law and the draft various provisions. That's gonna take place tomorrow. I understand it's not that easy to add. We have a manifestation. I could free myself if I had to. We have not been able to give advice on most of the issues that concern us as employers and employees. I would add a few: the 46-hour week in the hospitality sector, the reduction in youth wages, the intervention in the consultation procedures for night and Sunday work, the intervention of the government in the unitary status, the expansion of flexi-jobs. For example, I have a number of issues on which the ACV, but undoubtedly also the social partners, would like to express their views. We don't just notice that. I also see that the Council of State has already pointed out that, under the law, there are many areas where the advice of the social partners in the National Labour Council can and even needs to be sought. I would like to say nothing about the repeated intervention of the policy on sectoral collective agreements, but also on interprofessional collective agreements. We are only partial in the case of the EUR 500 net additional income project, and we regret that. We note that the concrete part about the digital platforms was not presented to the NAR. Apparently, that's not the subject of the hearing either. It does not seem to be the intention that this should be dealt with in this committee, apparently only in the Finance Committee, while there are a lot of unbreakable cross-links to be made overall. As far as the EUR 500 additional income is concerned, I will not elaborate on the important budgetary impact and on the serious risks to the overall management of social security for both employees and self-employed persons. Both the Court of Auditors and the NAR have made very explicit reference to the impact of budgetary costs on the short, medium and long term. However, we have noted that this is not really worthy of attention for policy. Last week, we heard a Secretary of State say that a balanced budget does not seem to win elections. At least we had hoped that politics would look a little more broadly than just the elections. Worse still, budgetary disruption, dixit a Deputy Prime Minister, has become an objective in itself, so that one can finally put the knife in social security. That's something that hits our chests hard. Moreover, it seems to us to be the red thread of the whole draft law. That reminds me of the bygone statement of another politician, who once said: La dette publique? We don't know how she got here, but she'll disappear on her own. We do not share that belief. We have seen that the Court of Auditors has focused mainly on the transition of self-employed workers into the new system without contribution. With the social partners, we have also highlighted the threat to the employment of workers in the profit sector, workers in the non-profit sector, workers in private sectors and workers in public sectors. At the end of last week, 55 organisations from a network against poverty, together with nine other organisations including the trade unions, pointed to the very serious impact on employment policies for vulnerable groups. They also pointed to the, of course negative, impact on employment programmes through the social economy. It also poses a threat to the sheltered workshops, or to the tailor-made companies, as I must say now. From a Christian inspiration, but not only from that, Sister Jeanne Devos raised the issue of the impact on domestic staff in the VRT news a week before. The ink of the International Labour Organisation Convention, with which we have regulated the protection of domestic workers, is barely dry or is already in danger of being undone, including via digital platforms. The only embarrassing answer, in our view, that came from a certain Mr. Deputy Prime Minister De Croo, was that we would all be invited to a cup of coffee. That was kind of weird. We have stated from the outset, including the social partners, that we want to look at and study a number of issues. We are not blind to a number of realities that exist in the sports sector and in parts of the socio-cultural environment. However, for about each of the activities included, there are substantial risks of crowding out regular employment. Jobs, jobs, jobs are still the parolee of this policy, but we do see here displacement, displacement, displacement, of course also fueled by the underfunding and persistent provisions, which inevitably threatens a dynamic of shift, including towards union work. With, of course, also risk derivatives in the association work, on which the Platform for Volunteers will continue. I would just like to point out that in the work of association, it is not just one interim statute between worker and volunteer, but also two intermediate statutes: association work with and without remuneration. Because the draft law also allows contracts without any remuneration, so that two types of unpaid work can be obtained in the field: one with the status of volunteer and one with the status of association worker. We don't understand this. This threat to regular employment must also be looked at from a different perspective: employees and self-employed persons with relatively low incomes will be drawn into this statute. It's written in the stars. We as ACV have already warned about this at the beginning of August. Why on earth would people want to work overtime with their own boss, with their own employer? In fact, why continue to work full-time with his own employer, because this intervention makes it so much more interesting to go net on an individual basis, short-term financial basis. We have also made this clear in an opinion document for the VRT. We have left a single worker who has a full-time gross income of 2 500 euros per month. If that colleague moves to a four-day working week and he takes Friday off, he will have 223 euros net income less per month by working four days. However, if he can fill that day off with paid union work or civil services for 500 euros a month, then I should not draw a picture of the net loss of 223 euros is offset by 277 euros net profit. This means that we are organizing the disruption ourselves, which we do not want. We note that there is no limit per month for digital platforms, as long as the limit of EUR 6 000 is not exceeded on an annual basis. The question of broader civil society and the social partners was simple: wait a bit, study it, consider the opportunities and dangers, make an impact analysis for each activity and sector involved, together with the social partners in the National Labour Council and the sectoral partners in the Joint Committees, and take the time to do so, because what is before us today is very far-reaching. So hold off on a KB that captures the activities. Create a more sophisticated activity list with the minimum requirements to protect the user, the association workers and the selfless people who do some volunteering. We should obviously do so together with the competent regions and Communities, because we fear that there will be accidents. In response, we received a very limited list of modifications, a limited list of activities and, for the rest, the inclusion of the Royal Decree in the law. I fear that this will also fall on a cold stone, because what benefits an argument such as 'disruption of specific sectors', if disruption has apparently become a political objective. That was true for the flexi jobs. It is no different for the project of the 500 euro additional merit and the digital platforms. We see the same thing in the way in which a line is drawn about the whole of social protection: no rights, no social security contributions and no employment protection, unless here or there some prevention and protection, as a cook-up of the voluntary status. There are also no collective agreements. There is no longer any protection for working hours and working hours. One has no right to vacation and holiday money. There's no more pay protection, and I can go on like that for a while. As if this could be done without a review of the principle of constitutional equality, international and European standards, merely by decreeing that an employee will no longer be an employee. Then that's like Magritte did with his pipe back then. Europe gives Member States a far-reaching power to define the definition of worker, but according to European case law this should not go so far as to undermine the objective of protection. The conventions of the International Labour Organisation concern not only the protection of workers but also of all workers, regardless of their status. One of the main elements of the new European social pillar is that all workers, including those on atypical or precarious contracts, should at least have access to social protection. To our surprise, we note on the European stage that Belgium wants to be one of the good students there. In theory, because in practice we find the opposite. I would just like to briefly comment on the latest version of the activity list and the target group description for association work, with the fundamental observation that this double limitation can easily be set aside by organising association work through the business model of the digital platforms for citizen-to-citizen activities, without any restriction. As far as the sport sector is concerned, I have already said that we were open to the recognition of certain activities. It was Flemish minister Muyters who launched that idea and even at the launch there was a tax of 12,5 %. Now we can even see that disappearance. Why should this also apply to the whole sector, including the top clubs, where millions are common to top players and apparently only crumbs for people who want to do something? We believe that this will be a reason for the top clubs to dump ordinary workers through their neighbouring non-profit organisations. As regards well-being and health, only in one place, in particular in the case of activity 16, support in residential care centres and disability services, it states that the same quality criteria should apply to professional staff. For the daycare and nightcare, activities 10 and 17, it says that there is not so. There is only reference to the criteria of the Communities, but which apply only to professional activities, which means that it is without object. Worse still, for activities 8 and 11, childcare and guidance for school children, it seems that no safety or quality criteria should apply anymore. We find that hard to believe. We are wondering whether you have ever considered the fact that these quality standards no longer apply to the care of your children and grandchildren, nor do your parents or grandparents have to go to an old people's home. We fear that, unfortunately, we will be right with our criticism. If some kind of Pano broadcast again calls for commotion from the citizens, then unfortunately we will have to say: we have said it. We want more than just to say. We want you to take our comments into account. In our opinion, the whole thing is extremely frivolous. We know all too well how much effort it is already taking to ensure the quality of care for vulnerable people. We all know the difficult issues of child abuse and neglect of older people in care. If we then have to determine how much nonchalance is shown in the design, we can only say that we really do not want it. Finally, a word about the target group. This is extended to young people in civil service for the purpose of association work. Could you please explain to us what we should imagine? Why, as far as pensioners are concerned, are the younger widows and widowers with a transitional allowance excluded from the target group? Can we expect a little more empathy for those who lose their partner at a young age, in line with the recent judgment of the Constitutional Court on the raising to 55 years before the age of the survivor's pension? In the case of requalification as an employee when the limits are exceeded or when the conditions are not met, we see that the penalty does not seem to apply when the organisation fails to comply with the insurance obligation and the obligation to pay welfare. Where the organisation has supposedly acted in good faith and is free from the regularisation of social contributions, there is no social security benefit scheme for that period to be regularized. Mr President, you will be told that we have been very keen in our NAR opinion. From the employee's point of view tout court and with the ACV in particular we think this is a bridge too far. In the long term, we will not only see an erosion of social protection, but also budgetary consequences for our society, not just in terms of taxation, because there will also be many consequences in social security, which will make it more difficult to maintain a balance. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-18-54-commissie-ic784x.u5	Mr. Speaker, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for giving us the opportunity to explain our remarks, to tell you about our difficulties with this bill and, above all, to express a number of concerns about the elements that it contains. You will have guessed, the word that will most often come back this afternoon, is the term "disruptive", because we are quite in "disruption" in relation to the way in which work in all its forms, whether wage-earner or self-employed, is organised today in Belgium. We are not conservative – contrary to the way some people describe us – but we are simply defending a society that emphasizes solidarity and aims to guarantee through social security the primary objective of politics, that is, prosperity and social cohesion. So it is clearly not a good bill! I think you will hear the same message here this afternoon from all stakeholders that there are far too many elements that make this bill impossible to pass by you in this way and come into force. As Mathieu Verjans pointed out, I will try to focus on the elements relating to occasional services between citizens and my colleague Isabelle Dean will focus on the platform economy. First of all, the findings, before making a number of requests. The first is that the concepts are clearly blurred by presenting this as aid between friends, between neighbours. An aid which, initially, is free and unselfish. Indeed, if you help your friends move or the neighbour clear your entry, it's actually disinterested, but for us, apart from that, everything in this bill is like work. And humorously, one could say that one of the activities proposed is building monitoring; I am curious to know someone who would ever have watched buildings to do a service! It's a simple reflection. So we have the impression that the authors of the bill are playing magicians by trying to say – contrary to what Mathieu Verjans pointed out – "work, I call you occasional activity". It's a little surreal! Secondly, it is clearly unfair competition, both for workers, because the volume of activity will decrease for both employees and the self-employed, as well as for employers. There are sectors that are professionalizing. There is also a permanent approach to recycling, having to meet a number of increasingly complex standards, and there will be competition with people who do not have to meet any of these standards, none of them. It is therefore clearly a question of unfair competition. We also have a clear perception of the risks of slippage: work which is still being carried out by undertakings employing employees in the regular system or self-employed persons will now be carried out in the context of occasional activities, leading to a real risk of absorption of activities by occasional activities, with the resulting consequences, i.e., in the long run, a problem of financing social security and a lack of creation of rights for persons. For example, in the definition of service titles, paragraph 8 of this activity refers to household assistance, but one-off, and not regular assistance. However, it is difficult to control the punctual or regular nature of the household aid. But in this area, workers are at a very high risk, whereas today they are structured in service securities companies. It must be remembered that when these activities did not exist, some ten years ago, they were mostly carried out in black. But over time, a real status was created: that of persons employed by service securities companies. Another element was found: the risk of pressure is completely obscured. There will certainly be a number of intermediaries, such as paid or free platforms, that will connect applicants and providers of these occasional services, which is far from the basic activity that should have been ad hoc, a citizen-to-citizen service. Another risk of pressure that is never mentioned is the fact that, since the hourly wage is not, in either direction, limited, a person may very well find himself forced to accept a low wage, an hourly wage of 4 or 5 euros. This is not the order of the impossible. Mathieu Verjans has already referred to this: on the international environment, concerning domestic workers, another recommendation adopted by the International Labour Organisation (ILO) is important and is highlighted in the opinion of the National Labour Council, namely Recommendation 204 on the transition from the informal economy to the formal economy. In Africa, 80 to 90 per cent of economic activity is carried out through informal activity, without status, without the creation of specific rights. The ILO and our Development Cooperation are trying to set up programmes to get workers out of the informal sector and to direct them towards formal activity with the aim of creating a framework that generates rights in the field of social security. I think this is a first in a hundred years: we are re-establishing activity, officially informal activity, in a country that is almost completely formal. It's, in a way, making the way backwards. In this particular provision – unlike the first part in which there is an involvement of regulation with respect to welfare – in the event of an accident, there is strictly no application of the welfare rules. There is no safety rule to be provided by a person who uses a hazardous device such as a chainsaw or disc machine or who climbs onto a roof. The only obligation is to take out civil liability insurance for the person who works and causes damage or damage, so that these facts are covered by the person with whom he or she works. We are faced with a somewhat paradoxical situation compared to a hundred years ago: if an accident occurs at the workplace – even if you consider it not to be work – it is no longer considered to be an accident at work but an accident under ordinary law. Article 1382 of the Civil Code will therefore be applied with fault, damage, causation and the need for evidence by the plaintiff. Another area of concern is the dequalification and qualification of the relationship in this regulation. Articles 139 to 148 of the Bill eliminate one by one all the laws that are traditionally applicable to contractual relations, employment contracts, social security, working time, protection of remuneration, well-being at work and even regulations that may apply to public holidays. Indeed, we can realize that the main element that characterizes the whole is the bond of subordination. There will be a link of subordination in these activities. If these exclusions had not been made, one would have had an opportunity to qualify as an employment relationship with application by the person occupying these casual workers in an employment relationship as an employer. If the element had not been foreseen, one would naturally have arrived in a form of employment contract, probably an occupational activity, which is likely to be waged. We said it's not work. We're saying it's not work. It's pretty special. On the other hand, when it comes to the requalification of this relationship, the application of all the regulations relating to paid work has been excluded and there is an irreflagable requalification as a self-employed person. Therefore, all fault and responsibility concern the worker, even in situations of flagrant abuse on the part of the payer. It is also something that we wanted to draw your attention to. Beyond these different elements of observation, what do we want? It is important to examine in detail the impact of each of the eleven types of benefits envisaged in the bill. This impact assessment must be carried out by involving the sectors of professional activity, mainly the actors of the various Joint Committees, who are the first to recognise that there are needs but who are also the first to know the risks of slippage and unfair competition. It is important to carry out this concrete impact assessment with all those responsible for the various sectors, the sectoral social partners, sector by sector, for the details of each of these services. As you will have seen, for a number of elements, reference is made to regulation at Community or regional level. It is also important to involve these actors. They have laid down quality rules which attest to a certain professionalism. But there is no budget impact study. It is also an element to be noted. Another important element, which goes hand in hand with the former, is the fact that we are asking for a much more precise description of the activities. Clearly, in all these activities a possibility of inspection by inspection services is foreseen. If this control is to be done with the definition that exists today, we will not achieve any result to detect what falls within the scope and what does not fall within it. A much more precise description of the activities is needed. There is also a need for clear criteria for professionalism, quality and ethics, and for safety and accountability rules, which are applicable to professional work, which should be applicable to such occasional activities. It is also apparent that, in this bill, apart from perhaps the competence in the field of social inspection, there is no leverage to analyse and prevent abuses that may occur here, including in terms of requalification. It has been discussed: we do not want this regulation, but it is important that, if it comes into force, all these elements be settled before the entry into force. You will also have seen that, in relation to the elements taken up in the unanimous opinion of the National Labour Council at second reading, only two or three small elements were taken into account. This is clearly not enough in relation to the remarks, as a result of the detailed analysis we have made as the federal social partners. That is clearly not enough. That's a lot of comments. A lot of changes still have to be made if this system is ever introduced. I'll stop here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-18-54-commissie-ic784x.u6	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I would of course like to thank you for your invitation. The FGTB obviously fully associates itself with the concerns that have just been raised by my two colleagues. But for my part, I am going to intervene on the third part of the measures concerned. It is therefore the collaborative economy organized through a recognized platform. As has already been said here, the proposed measures make it possible to benefit from the revenues of recognised platforms of up to €6,000 defiscalised. For my speech, first of all, I am going to do a little tax Digression - I hope you will not blame me - to explain a little the retroacts of the measure. Secondly, in a second phase, I will address the proposed reform and the adverse consequences that we believe it will have. And then I will conclude on a few recommendations. I'll start with a taxigression. You probably know that, with respect to revenues from collaborative platforms, since the program law of July 1, 2016, there are already more favourable tax measures that have been taken. These tax measures have only been effective since the beginning of 2017, so, in the end, for a very short time. The aim of these measures was already to get out of a grey area of income that was often exempt from taxation and also to boost entrepreneurship. What did the Program Act of July 1, 2016 provide for? A tax relief measure. Individuals who offer their services via a recognized platform benefit from a favourable tax rate of 20% for these revenues, after deduction of 50%. This means, in fact, that they are only subject to a 10% discount, up to a ceiling of EUR 5100. This applies to the provisions currently applicable to revenues from recognized platforms. A specific tax statement shall be completed by each approved platform which allows the tax administration to verify ex post compliance with these amounts and, if the ceiling is exceeded, to subject the person to the normal tax on the entire amount. It is interesting to note that the conditions for the approval of platforms are, in fact, quite minimal and do not include quality criteria. For example, for the accreditation of a platform, it is necessary, in any case, in terms of substantive conditions, that the services concerned relate to specific services and that they are not part of the continuation of their professional activities. Transactions between individuals need to gravitate through the recognized platform. Finally, there are some restrictions on activities that are permitted, but these restrictions are truly minimal, since only the delivery of goods and the rental of real property are excluded. This means that all activities, in particular the activities included in the two lists mentioned above, can be carried out entirely through these recognized platforms. If you visit the list of approved platforms on the Finance FPS site, you will see that currently, twenty-three platforms are referenced. Indeed, the activities are very heavy - surely - but also very many, since they cover DIY, animal care, household help. These are again the same activities as those listed. The NTC has already had to draw up an initial evaluation of the functioning of this current system, as part of a diagnostic on digitalisation that is done within the framework of the AIP 2017 and 2018. In particular, it had been pointed out that controls over the operation of such platforms were relatively infrequent. The Inspectors were of the view that, as a result of this system of tax returns, which was subsequently postponed, they did not have sufficiently up-to-date data and did not have sufficient time to effectively intervene when conditions were not met. Here is a first landscape of the current situation. What about the proposed measures? What's going to change? As I said, the proposed measures really aggravate this tax system, from our point of view in any case, since, from now on, it is foreseen, in the social measures submitted to you, that it is the cumulation of the three schemes that is challenged (associative work, citizen-to-citizen benefits and income from digital platforms). This means that we no longer have this 10% tax that I mentioned earlier, since the economy of platforms is understood. This exemption really raises many questions. The first part of the questions asked contains more generic questions which have already been raised by my colleagues. I agree with their criticisms in this regard. Of course, it is a factor of unfair competition. This may lead to deprofessionalisation in relation to regular employment. Even in the commercial sector, there are qualification requirements, safety rules, protection of workers and consumers. This, of course, concerns the principle of fiscal equality. As we have already said, there is no study on the budgetary impact that this measure could have. I agree with the criticisms already made with regard to this third part. But there is, I think, something more specific about this income exemption for the platforms, it is that in fact this risks finally emptying the first two statutes of the few guarantees they already contain. Why? You have been told that these first two statutes are subject to minimum pension or 4/5 working hours. It is also limited to lists of activities which, although controversial, are far too broad and need to be reviewed. There is, however, a minimum, which is obviously not yet sufficient, of restrictions on access to these statutes. Compared to the recognized platforms, these restrictions – whether on working status or on the list of activities – do not exist, since I told you that with regard to activities, there were not really quality criteria and that all kinds of activities could be carried out through these platforms. What are the distortions - and I will repeat the word "disruptive" that has already been mentioned - that can be observed? For example, by means of recognised platforms without pre-existing status conditions, a part-time worker could very well benefit from tax and social exemptions by carrying out activities which he could not provide under the first two statutes. Another possible problem is that, since recognized platforms do not know the limitations on authorized activities, it is possible for a citizen to engage in activities that are not permitted by the lists through them. This will allow him to avoid any sanction. Finally, it also follows from the system in place that unrecognized platforms could act as intermediaries in the provision of citizen-to-citizen services. They will be able to benefit from more favourable measures between themselves. In addition, this measure will also discourage unregistered platforms from registering. It appears that the favourable provisions which are applicable to recognised platforms and which are also linked to the absence of conditions for their exercise will undermine the safeguards provided for. So, for us, the regime of the recognized platforms is a bit the Trojan horse that we come to put next to the other two statutes and that will really detriculate the system. Obviously, in this context, the risk of unfair competition with professional workers, de-professionalisation is all the more important. As the CNT has pointed out, it is not justified that a social and tax exemption should be decided without any additional conditions, depending on the way in which the service is provided, because one ultimately goes through a platform. In my view, the objective of the 2016 program law was to allow for a small income supplement or a boost for regular economic activities. It is therefore really essential to establish clearer boundaries between these different statutes and also with regular work. Another problem that needs to be raised is that the web application where you have to register as an associative worker or for citizen-to-citizen benefits applies only to these two pillars and does not apply to the income of the platform economy, whereas the maximum of €6,000 applies to the three pillars. Therefore, there is a real paradox as we will not be able to verify, in any case with regard to the third pillar, whether or not we respect the conditions of the EUR 6 000 which are provided for by law. This control can only be carried out a posteriori via the tax slips, of which I told you earlier that the inspections felt that they were not adequate to carry out effective control. It therefore seems to us that, as envisaged, the system really includes within it the elements of its own erosion and of course the elements of the deregulation of work. In spite of everything and even if we are not at all in favour - as you will understand - of this system, I would like to reiterate a series of recommendations which have been made by the social partners, namely that conditions of employment and activity must be added in order to qualify for exemption for income from recognised platforms. Otherwise, a minimum, it is necessary to maintain the tax system which existed, so taxation at 10%. These revenues must also be integrated into the web application which brings together the services of the other two pillars, in order to allow rapid control, avoid ex post regularisation and subsequent requalifications. It is also an element of legal certainty for citizens, whether they are providers or beneficiaries. Finally, it is also hoped that there will be more effective attention and control vis-à-vis platforms which have not applied for approval, which are not recognised and for which there is no transparency at all. There is a real need for a screening mechanism to detect fraud and, of course, to encourage these platforms to be recognised. Occasional services between citizens should also be avoided through this unrecognized platform.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-18-54-commissie-ic784x.u7	I give the floor to Mrs Catherine Vermeersch on behalf of the VBO.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-18-54-commissie-ic784x.u8	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your invitation. As far as I am concerned, I will set out the lines of strength of Opinion 2065, which the CNT issued on 29 November last. Caroline will have the opportunity to go into the details later. I will focus on the essential points for the FEB that I represent. I will talk mainly about community work and occasional services between citizens. I will still say a word on the agreed collaborative platforms. As regards associative work, this is not a professional activity. It's a free time activity. A maximum of EUR 6 000 per year and EUR 500 per month are foreseen and a minimum occupancy condition is 4/5th time. A limited list of activities is planned and a new statute is being created, which comes next to the one provided for in the framework of volunteering. In the case of occasional services from citizen to citizen, here too, it is not a professional activity but an activity of free time, with the same annual and monthly maximum amount, the same condition of occupation (minimum 4/5th time) a limited list of activities. These are really small works carried out directly between citizens. The positive aspects of these two systems meet societal needs. In this sense, we support them. Occasional character is also an important element for us. In fact, this reduces undeclared work, which is also positive. It can be said that the idea is good. However, we do not see clearly the articulation between the three systems. As my trade union colleagues have already said, we believe that there are not enough safeguards in the texts. As a result, we fear negative consequences. What adverse consequences are feared? I am going to develop four of them, which are reflected in the opinion of the National Labour Council: unfair competition, the shift of professional activities towards exempt earnings, "de-occupation" and, finally, the problem of cumulation. As far as unfair competition is concerned, this has already been discussed. We have a very broad approach; we have definitions that seem too vague, not sufficiently precise. For example, with regard to household chores, it is said that these are household chores, with the exception of regular household chores, but with authorization for large-scale cleaning. This definition does not appear to us to be very clear. There is therefore a risk of developing professional activities with tax and social exemption. In addition, these services are provided in the private sphere. The question of control arises immediately. We have the impression that it will be very difficult to control and that we will de facto arrive at a lack of controls. All this means that there is a very high risk of unfair competition compared to companies which respect the rules of the game, who pay taxes and social security contributions. We therefore believe that it is necessary to provide for a strict demarcation between the activities planned under these new systems and the activities carried out within a professional framework. Hence the demands, from the social partners at the CNT, to have, as was said by Olivier Valentin, an in-depth impact assessment for each activity on the list. You really have to look at activity by activity, sector by sector, to avoid unfair competition. Secondly, it should also be prohibited to develop activities that are in line with professional activities. Another risk – as has already been mentioned – is the shift from regular employment to exempt earnings. This risk appears fairly clear and it should therefore be prohibited, as requested by the CNT, to develop activities which are in line with the professional activities. The lists also show that many activities are subject to qualification conditions, quality standards, approvals and safety rules. At this level, however, the texts do not provide sufficient guarantees. As a result, there is a significant risk of deprofessionalisation. In this context, we believe that the list should be approached from this point of view in order to arrive at a strict selection of the activities included in the list. Finally, the fourth concern concerns the problem of cumulation. It was said that a minimum occupancy condition of 4/5th, a possible cumulation, had been imposed. Mathieu Verjans asked earlier: "Why continue to work 100% at his employer?" I will even go further by saying that there is a risk that the worker will opt for a 4/5th time and take next to 1/5th time in the form of time credit or end-of-career employment. So he's going to be able to cumulate and get more in net. This does not seem acceptable to us. In this context, we therefore call for the explicit prohibition of cumulation for career interruption, time credit, thematic leave and end-of-career employment, unless it is the continuation of an old activity in the context of voluntary work. Again with regard to cumulation, we see the link with the fiscal and social impact. If you are busy full-time, with tax and social revenues, you might want to spend 4/5th time, so with lower tax and social revenues. In addition, if one takes 1/5th time credit, social security expenditure will increase, while the €6,000 per year will be exempt. This is problematic in terms of funding. Finally, a word about approved collaborative platforms. The overall approach seems to us to be positive, since accreditation will promote transparency. However, there is a big problem with the removal of the 10% tax, so the 20% system after deduction of 50% of professional fees that had been introduced in 2017. The result of this removal is that approved collaborative platforms are placed in a very favourable situation. In addition, to link up with the other two systems, I talked about a joint problem. But as has been said by Isabelle Dean, we do not have, within the framework of the agreed collaborative platforms, a condition of occupation or a limiting list. Thus, in the context of voluntary work and occasional services, these platforms could be used. And, in this case, the conditions are no longer the same, which is a problem. All these factors mean that there is also a risk of unfair competition. The demand of the NTC's social partners is therefore to maintain the existing tax rate of 10%.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-18-54-commissie-ic784x.u9	Mr President, members of the committee, I would like to thank you for hearing our organisation as part of your work. It is a very important dossier for us, which is very close to our heart. I agree with several of the criticisms made here by our fellow Members, because many of our sectors and our self-employed are concerned about the possible impact on their own activities, about the generalised system of earning up to EUR 6 000 a year, due to unfair competition. At the beginning of my presentation, I would like to emphasise that we have no problem at all with digitisation, working with apps or earning extra money. On the contrary, these are very positive developments for us and we want to give everyone the opportunity to make use of them. We do find it problematic when such systems are granted a tax and parafiscal favor regime on the basis of criteria which are not relevant to us and which therefore result in people who do not work through these systems, who do not earn extra money but have a main merit and who do not work through platforms but simply face to face, suffering from these systems or would therefore be treated less positively. We have therefore worked intensively on the various opinions delivered on the draft law, including in the National Labour Council, in the General Management Committee for the Social Status of the Self-employed and also in the High Council for Self-employed and SMEs. You can look up all the advice on the Internet, but I think they were all handed out to you just now. Normally, you have also received our amendments, which we have drawn up on the basis of the opinions. We have done so because we not only want to criticise but also propose solutions. After all, we are not wiping out everything that is put forward here in the draft law. On the contrary, we can see that there are a number of positive points. However, we are in favour of a system that provides a framework for association work, for friend services and even for services provided through recognised platforms, as long as that framework does not create unfair competition with self-employed and businesses. That is why you see on the slide the system that we would like to obtain through our amendments. This means three derived pillars, where union work is rather a follow-up to voluntary work, where occasional services are limited to effective friend services and therefore do not lead to market activities or profitable activities, and where profitable activities can be carried out through a recognised platform. However, as compensation for this and for the fact that this leads to competition with the self-employed and businesses, a limited contribution is required to the persons providing such services. This contribution would then amount to 10% of turnover, which to date is the case with the recognised platforms but is abolished by the bill in question. Under these conditions there are a number of conditions, which should then be the same within the three pillars in order to prevent us from moving towards effective professional activities where the government has little control and visibility. In this presentation I will not comment on the system of association work. I am sure my fellow Members will do so in greater detail. I will therefore confine myself to occasional services and, as is also very important to us, the services provided through approved platforms. Our main concern is, of course, that the draft law defines activities and lays down conditions, but that they are insufficient to prevent the activities that would be carried out as an occasional service from being, in fact, professional activities if we applied the normal rules of tax and social law to them. Those professional activities are then declared by law as non-professional activities, rather as an occasional service, which would exempt them from social contributions and taxes as well as an exemption from VAT. This naturally means that the person exercising this so-called occasional activity, which is in fact a professional activity, will have an advantage, allowing him to apply lower rates and thus compete unfairly with the self-employed and companies. That is one of our main criticisms, but this can be resolved by a number of amendments to the draft law. A first important amendment to that effect is that I am referring to Article 131, 1° of the draft law and the list of activities mentioned therein, and that these activities are limited in order to ensure that they are also effective in the provision of services to friends. Since the list is currently to be read together with the maximum amount of EUR 500 per month, we believe that it can include a number of activities which can also be carried out by the self-employed. For example, if I look at small maintenance works in and around the house, I can list a lot of self-employed workers who carry out such maintenance work for clients and charge no more than 500 euros per month. They are plumbers, electricians, garden contractors and the like. However, other points on the list are also problematic. I take the example of sports lessons, which can come into competition with fitness centres that also charge no more than EUR 500 a month to their customers, or so I hope. So our question is: let us fine-tune this list, let us be more limited in it, so that we can guarantee that it is effective in providing services to friends. During the discussions prior to this hearing, the example of the drawing of an Ikeakast or the placing of a luminaire has often been given. We have no problem with such services being carried out through this system, but let us limit it to that. Hence, for example, our proposal to set a maximum amount for such works. In addition, it seems very necessary to ensure that activities that are actually to be carried out professionally and subject to quality requirements are not carried out through this system. That is also something we have described in the opinion of the National Labour Council. As soon as it is said by the government that an activity involves such risks as to require quality requirements or requirements of professionalism or even liability, it seems logical not to be able to perform them through a system of extra-earning or occasional services, while the list now gives the impression that this is just possible. There is even talk of quality requirements for the professional exercise of these activities. That seems to us to be the opposite of where we have to go, because if there are quality requirements, then it is just something that needs to be exercised professionally and not as an occasional friend service. Therefore, in our amendment, we ask that the full list should not enter into force immediately, but that it should still be decided by royal decree which of these activities and under which conditions, therefore, restrictive conditions should be effectively exercised as a service of friendship. A second point concerns Article 131, 1°, in fine, i.e. right after the point 1. For us, it must be very clear that the activity carried out as an occasional service does not fade into a professional activity. We have understood from the authors of the texts that this is actually the intention, because it is said that it must be about profits or benefits that arise outside the pursuit of a professional activity. But we are not entirely satisfied with this wording because it is also included in the current regulations around the recognised platforms, and it does not mean at all that it should not be about professional activities in the actual sense of the word. That is why we have tabled an amendment to meet the objective as explained to us, in order to avoid performance in this system but which is actually a professional activity. This is very important to us and adaptation can be an important brake on possible unfair competition. Finally, in the same spirit, we would ask that Article 131, 2°, ensure that those providing occasional services do not give them a professional character, because they are already engaged in the same activity as an employee or as an official. At present it is only stipulated that self-employed persons cannot describe their own self-employed activity as an occasional service. We think it is very important that this should also be the case for employees or civil servants. If you do not do so, you will find yourself in a situation where an employee can compete with his own employer by reducing part of his working time and providing occasional services in that time off. It goes even further than that. It could also be that a company agrees with its employees that from now on everyone will work four fifths and will provide the services to customers through the system of occasional services for the rest of the time. That is a system that we absolutely do not want. We also assume that it is not the intention of the drafters. However, it is something that is not currently excluded when the texts are applied. Hence our amendment to avoid this, which does not seem to be an unreasonable question. We hope you can support that, too. Secondly, the system of occasional services should actually be the counterpart of the system of recognized platforms. If one works through a recognised platform, the regulation stipulates that the agreement between the service provider and the client must be concluded through the platform. That counterpart should also be found in the draft law on civil services, but that is not what it says. This means that it is not excluded that intermediaries can get involved in the system and make a profit model of placing citizens with other citizens, where these citizens will not always be real citizens but hidden professionals. We therefore wish to exclude this by explicitly including it in the draft law which should cover agreements between citizens, without intermediaries who make it a earning model. We also believe that the system cannot be used to optimise wages. We have already received announcements from people who are planning to go on runway. They will receive an RVA premium for this purpose and spend the time released on occasional services, whether or not in consultation with their current employer. This cannot, of course, be the intention, because these leave systems have a different objective, namely to give time to the family, to the care of people in need of help or just to countries towards retirement. We therefore call for a cumulative exclusion from the use of the system of occasional services and additional earnings, on the one hand, and an RVA premium to subsidise a reduction in working time, on the other. Another important point is that the draft law stipulates that, if income is earned through the system, it must be taken into account for the system of permitted work for pensioners. When you retire, you may in some cases earn only a limited amount. The income through that system will be taken into account to check whether that amount is being paid. In addition, however, there are many other benefits, social benefits, tax benefits and fiscal limits that take account of income and livelihoods. However, the income that would be earned through the proposed systems would not be taken into account. In our view, this cannot be the intention at all, because otherwise, as a government, it would be more likely to encourage additional income through these systems, rather than as an employee or self-employed person. Let me give you an example. In order to determine whether someone is taxly dependent on someone else, the means of subsistence that the person has shall be taken into account. This is about just over EUR 3 000. If an additional EUR 6 000 is made through the system, this would not be taken into account when determining whether someone can remain liable for tax. That seems neither desirable nor appropriate to us. That is why we are asking that a number of provisions be added to the draft law to regulate this. We have found that the system aims to fill in work from citizen to citizen, but it does not provide enough that it is actually about citizens. The system of recognised platforms includes, for example, that it should be a natural person who does not act in the context of his professional activity with the citizen requesting the service. There is no provision for this in the draft law. It is only registered that it should be a private person who does not have a contract of employment or whose company there is no contract of employment. That is, of course, too restrictive. With the provisions of the draft law, it may be possible for a single-man business to have occasional service providers in the framework of the professional activity. We have therefore tabled an amendment to avoid that, so that it would really be about a system of one citizen who does not act in the context of his professional activities, to the other citizen who does not act in the context of his professional activities. In a final important point concerning occasional services, I would like to say a few words about the irrefutable suspicion that the conditions for occasional services are not met. In itself we have no problem with an irrefutable presumption when it comes to a self-employed person. However, this irrefutable presumption is now technically very broad, resulting in unintended side effects. In fact, it simply says under general title that anyone who delivers an achievement that cannot be regarded as an occasional service is irrefutable self-employed. That is so broad that we do not think it could have been the intention. That irrefutable presumption should be limited in order to avoid any irrefutable suspicion of being self-employed, even if the person concerned had no intention whatsoever of using the system of occasional services. We therefore call for the irrefutable presumption to apply only if the income limits are exceeded, but not if the other conditions of the system are not met. We are asking for all these adjustments to be taken into account at the heart of our concerns. In addition, the document you were handed over contains other adaptations, purely technical ones. You can read them, but I won't explain them further. These adjustments are important, for example because we find that only retired workers can use the system, but not the retired self-employed. Next, I would like to comment on services through recognised platforms. I agree with what my fellow Members have already said. If no changes are made to the proposals relating to the recognised platforms and the 10% levy is simply deleted, then the whole chapter on occasional services in the draft law makes almost no sense. Indeed, those who do not fulfil the conditions to be laid down in this bill may provide the same services through a recognised platform and be totally exempt from social contributions and taxes. This is very problematic, isn't it? I have just said in my introduction that we are not fighting the system of recognised platforms as such. We have accepted this and we want to give it a chance, but I do not think anyone can say that there is no profit-seeking possible through this system. People who earn extra money through the system of platforms are indeed striving for profit. It is no longer about occasional services, friends or volunteering. In our view, therefore, a contribution should be paid as compensation, in particular the current contribution of 20% with a cost reduction of 50%, i.e. a contribution of 10%. In addition, we are calling for the monthly limit of EUR 500 to be introduced here, and for the monthly limit to be checked over the three pillars, which are not currently provided for in the draft. This is necessary in order to ensure that the services carried out through these platforms are truly occasional activities, genuine additional services, and that we do not end up in a situation where someone can earn EUR 6 000 for a service via a platform in one go. In our view, this is no longer a small activity that is not professional. At the same time, we also ask that the data collected through the platforms, which are similar to the data that would be included in the registration tool for occasional services and friends services, be collected in the same way and transmitted to the government, so that we can monitor all the performances across the three systems. Now that is not the case. Now one will have to record the activity in the tool for the association work and the occasional services, but one has no idea what is happening through the platforms. That comes only one and a half years after the date of tax returns at the tax authorities, and in the meantime we do not know at all what happened there, we cannot control the revenue limits either, and so we are lagging behind the facts. That is why we are asking that the data that should be available at the platforms should be forwarded to the public authorities at the same time. Here again, we are logically asking for a cumulative ban on RVA contributions for leave schemes and it seems logical that the income generated by this system should be included in the calculation of social and tax benefits. After all, it cannot be the intention to encourage people who have an advantage because they have little means of subsistence to earn more through these systems than through a regular contract of employment or an independent activity. I am therefore at the end of my amendments. I hope you can take it with you and I'll be happy to answer further questions, if necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-18-54-commissie-ic784x.u10	Then I give the floor to Mr Erik Van Laer from Unisoc.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-18-54-commissie-ic784x.u11	I, too, thank you all, of course, for the invitation. The file is a file that weighs very heavily on the Union of social profit companies. We do not have the tradition of reacting through the press, and now we have done so twice in this dossier. This shows how much we feel involved and how much we are awake from it. We do think it is positive that the social added value of the social benefit employers is recognised. It is often forgotten that good education, good childcare and good care for the elderly also have a positive impact on the level of activity for commercial activities. It is also positive that the existing arrangements are apparently considered too heavy and too inefficient for a modern, innovative, customer-oriented social benefit company by those making the draft laws. Last but not least, we also welcome the fact that a very specific, limited regulation is being developed for the sports sector and for amateur arts, which really meets a need. On the other hand, it is clear that there is double deloyalty competition here. A deloyal competition with the volunteer, who is now being pushed a bit into the corner. A deloyal competition, moreover, which will reduce the number of such activities, because research shows that where one begins to compensate the volunteer, it will perform less hours. When he feels volunteered, he finds himself filling in a social benefit. If he gets reimbursed, he becomes an employee and starts counting. So it's going to have an inhibitory effect in that respect. It is also deloyal competition for what is also called the matthew effect, namely those who have been given. In this case, to people who already have an income from employment or self-employment in the main occupation, or who receive an income as a pensioner or civil servant, something will be added. People like disabled people, difficult to integrate into the labour market, people from the social workshops, sheltered workshops, etc., will now be pushed out of the market by this system, because why should they still be called upon to do so? We also think it is important that the personal activities for which there are deontological requirements, quality requirements, follow-up and control are completely removed from the lists. It is as if 25 years of building quality for childcare or 50 years of building quality for care for the elderly is thrown into the garbage with one draw. We would like to pay particular attention to this. Especially in the new lists for citizens-to-citizens, it is very negative. It should also be borne in mind that we live in a complex country and that the demands and control elements have often been drawn up by the regions. The regions must not therefore be forgotten. I have read a lot about this in the press this week from people who can know how it works, and it seems to me that it is a little too short. What's occasional? That's not what we're talking about right now. Is every two weeks two hours working in the period from April to August occasional? At first sight that would be thought, but in a calendar year that is just the time I need to mow the grass, because in December it does not grow. It is therefore very unclear. In the beginning, our reaction was that black stays black and turns white grey. I think it's even worse: black gets even blacker and white gets gray. What do I mean, black gets even blacker? I can agree to zero-euro contracts with a large number of organisers and citizens without any limitation. No inspection can touch me from the moment I send something through the app. What I still earn in black, no one will be able to control. In ordinary undeclared work one can still be caught and checked. By using the app, one can never be checked again. Legal certainty is important for companies and organisations. The app must be put in place, but the welfare law is said, for example, on the one hand, that it no longer applies, but on the other hand it lists matters relating to the welfare law. It's like everything's okay as long as nothing happens. One gets an umbrella, but when it rains, it is taken away, because if something happens in that system, one will find somewhere to point the finger at the social profit company. This must therefore be guaranteed legal certainty. What frightens us enormously is that, and now I speak not only as a representative of social profit companies, which achieve 17% of employment, but also as a citizen, someone recently came to say that this is also a way to solve the ageing costs. Is this a step towards abolishing subsidies? Do we want to introduce something that neither social nor tax revenues are designed to solve the budgetary problems of ageing populations? That seems odd to me. To sum up, except for a few technical points which I shall add later, this is a measure that we should not take except in the sports sector and the amateur arts sector. We still need to make a number of adjustments so that we can create legal certainty and know what we are doing. Belgium is a difficult country. The regions must therefore be involved in a realistic way. We have to be careful, step by step, climb the mountain and start with the sports sector and the amateur arts. Later on, after a thorough evaluation and revision of the necessary technical texts, we will be able to examine how to proceed. For example, Article 116 refers to T-3. That's a long way in the past. The situation of the individual concerned may have changed fundamentally for a very long time. How will one check how people from a country other than Belgium are employed as much as four fifths, whether they are retired, whether they are self-employed in the main occupation? How the hell are we gonna check that? Or is it intended to recreate a new social dumping circuit at European level? Number 16 on the list is very unclear. At number 17, we think there is a lack of clarity between French and Dutch. In one text, "s' is defined by "s'; in the other state, "s' is defined by "s'. Does this mean that it's about something that already exists, or is it about things that still need to be created? I think we should take a good look at that. As far as welfare legislation is concerned, what is the point of Article 22 now? By the way, who else can control that? On the one hand, a number of articles say that these laws are all being abolished, including the welfare law. On the other hand, the King is given the power to go back into business after all. In the list now, I am talking about Article 132 of the Treaty of Rome, which deals first with compliance with Community legislation. Then suddenly people talk about quality standards. Deontology has fallen away, quality remains, but recognitions are also falling away. What do we want to do with this? Look at number 8 in the list and tell me what's not covered? That's a big question mark. We can't find what wouldn't fall under it. For number 9, do they mean Uber or do they mean others? Article 152, the last paragraph is new. We don't understand what that means at all. Can anyone explain what that means? Article 153, "The King can..." while the law abolishes everything. That too is unclear for us. For us, this is a frightening measure, except for the sports and amateur sector. It is frightening, because some people say clearly that this has to solve the cost of ageing. We are afraid that this will actually reduce the necessary subsidies for social profit companies through a back door. On the one hand, the country is turned upside down when there is a Pano broadcast which deals with quality and follow-up in the social benefit sector, in particular care for the elderly. On the other hand, we want to introduce these systems without any guarantee, without any quality whatsoever. We are afraid of that. We therefore hope that sport and amateur arts will be launched, preferably as soon as possible, and that, on the basis of their experience, it will be examined at a later stage as to whether it is appropriate to continue rolling this out. And if it is rolled out, preferably in consultation with sectors, regions and specialists to also monitor and monitor the budgetary impact.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-18-54-commissie-ic784x.u12	I call Mr Matthieu Dewèvre.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-18-54-commissie-ic784x.u13	Ladies and gentlemen, I will allow myself to be brief in that everything has already been said by my colleagues. I associate myself with everything that has been said about our fear that people will increase their activities more or less voluntarily, while putting in place mechanisms more or less of good faith to stay below the ceiling. This fear, I have schematized it into four risks. The first is deprofessionalization. This is the idea of seeing benefits, from the current level where they are exercised by professionals, to a level where they would be exercised by non-professionals. The fact is that, as it stands, the texts do not give sufficient priority to professionals. But for us, that is fundamental. If, within the framework of the economy via an approved platform, one can see a means of developing activity for self-employed already installed or a springboard towards the activity of the self-employed, it is certain that for the other systems, these two elements are perfectly absent. The priority for professionals must be monitored. It is essential that a monitoring tool exists in a coordinated manner in all three systems. When we saw that the law was talking about putting the system in place before the control tool was developed, there was some fear. The second threat is the loss of profits for social security and taxation. The Court of Auditors has considered this; it has been discussed. It is clear that this loss of profits is a significant risk. It is aggravated if one considers that there is a question of completely exempting benefits in the platform economy. The third threat concerns unfair competition between professionals and this kind of extra-professional under-status, but also between the three new systems since, as much in the platform economy, one can imagine that the presence of a platform through which all transactions pass is a soothing factor, as much as there is a risk of activities slipping into occasional services between citizens where control is more diffuse. The fourth point concerns legal uncertainty since the entry into force is planned relatively quickly, which will not allow public and private authorities the possibility of adapting, which is a very high risk. In this regard, I would like to point out that it has been quite badly received at the level of the National Labour Council to see and read everywhere, for quite a long time, that the games were made and that it was already possible to carry out this ancillary activity. We can only hope that the games are not made in this area as in others.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-18-54-commissie-ic784x.u14	Beste Kamerleden, eerst en vooral, a very big thank you for the invitation. Our organization greatly appreciates being invited. A big thank you to those who put our organization forward. The last word means that much has been said, but I would really appreciate it if I could ask for a little more of your attention. I'll be brief. Everyone will appreciate that. When the file was announced for the first time in the summer, we heard "jobs, jobs, jobs." Now, our organization encourages jobs. Our organization believes it is very important that working people are rewarded. That's what we're here for. Our organisation also considers it important that a social interest be filled in. Things that are not being done now but which allow us to create new things, we are the first to say that this is very positive. If you work with two sizes and two weights and ensure that some can earn free of tax without social contributions: I am fine, but make absolutely a distinction between the occasional character and the professional character, make sure that you do not create unfair competition. This is the common thread for us, unfair competition. You're gonna say I'm overreacting. No, all those who are not convinced after my speech, I will be happy to deliver the numerous letters of readers in Dutch and French. My mailbox is overwhelmed. I brought my laptop. Those who are not convinced were invited after my speech to hear the voice of the small self-employed. Deloyal competition. Why do we think that, together with our small self-employed? Well, it's very simple. If you read the lyrics, it's poignant. The selfemployed person who carries out a particular activity cannot earn an untaxed sum in the same activity. An independent caretaker cannot do the same in this system. An employee, on the other hand, can do so. That's not possible! The nurse, someone active in guarding, someone active in construction, why does he still want to work full time? We have to be honest. Our organization has already looked at the time-credit several times, in a completely different context. We are not against the time-credit, but there is always the problem of how small self-employed people can cope with this. Now, ladies and gentlemen, you are giving carte blanche here to all those who want to work four-fifths and yet still want to do some work, and that will make the employers and self-employed more concerned. We can't do this. If you create a system, make sure that you do not distinguish between employees who can do the same activity and additional jobs, and self-employed people who cannot. This can't be! Secondly, it has already been said by Mrs Deiteren of Unizo, which refines the sector list. This is very important to us. Don't be a disloyal competition. I know, of course it's the self-employed who drive a fat Mercedes or have a villa in Knokke, which we all see. But believe me, for many of the sectors included in the list, such as construction, one would sometimes be shocked if one knew how many small self-employed people needed these small jobs to survive. If you're not convinced, come and see me later. I'd be happy to give you an overview. Really. The same applies to garden maintenance, private education, childcare. As you all know, in the childcare sector, it is difficult to survive as a self-employed person. Again, jobs, jobs, jobs and work, we are not against that. But you can tell me, ladies and gentlemen, how to sell this system to the small self-employed. I'm told I can argue well, but I can't sell this to our little self-employed. Why not? I take a small independent active in construction as an example. You probably saw in the press the person who testified vividly on Saturday morning. He said he needed it to catch up, to make ends meet, to survive. He said he had to do all these formalities. He said he can't afford to work in black. He doesn't, and many self-employed people don't either. However, it cannot be said that one category, those who do activities and add-ons, can do so without taxes and social contributions, while others have to. You mention EUR 6 000 on an annual basis. Well, I'm following Erik: the first time I heard about sometimes making extra money, I thought it would be really occasional. You have occasionally defined as 6,000 euros of additional income, but that is not occasional for us. My third point is registration. For us, it is vital that there is an electronic declaration. There is a reason why the plan is postponed until 20 February. I am talking about for the time being, because I think it is positive and I really hope that you will not abandon the little self-employed. As far as the electronic declaration is concerned, there are a lot of government apps and systems over the Internet that don't work. So it would be good if we could test the system before it has to work 100 %. Legislation must come into force, but it must be certain that electronic declarations have been pre-tested so that they are 100% operational. It's very important. It is also very important that you provide for control. Setting up a system but without finally providing for a 100 per cent control, it's no use. Control is very important. There is no provision for sanctions either. We all know that if one can drive 120 km/h on the highway and one has a heavier foot but one knows that one is not sanctioned, one still drives 130 km/h in dry weather. What would stop you? Sanctions should be provided for if the electronic declaration is not made. Fourth point: the excess of EUR 500. Those who have exceeded the 500 euro threshold would, in our view, no longer be able to benefit from these non-taxed incomes during the year. It is very important for the draft law to make a big difference, and I will not go into detail here between the fiscal aspect, which also looks at the future and the following year, which has an impact, because an overrun has been done, and the social aspect. It is very important to bring both aspects into line. It is also very important that we take everything together for the calculation of monthly income, which is now EUR 500, as Mrs Deiteren has just said. In the case of registration, I shall take both together, it is not logical that, on the one hand, the work of association and the citizen-to-citizen should be registered, but, on the other hand, it does not require this for the collaborative economy because they would already do so. How can we then ascertain whether the amount of EUR 6 000 has been exceeded if there is no proper control? The same applies to the excess of EUR 500. When the calculation of income on a monthly basis is based solely on association work and on citizen-to-citizen but not on the sharing economy, that is not correct. My fifth and penultimate point has already been addressed here. So I can get over it real fast. That is the advantage of being the last speaker. The first speaker has just made it very clear that our self-employed people....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Excuse me for saying that. Dear Members of Parliament, on several occasions you pretend to be self-employed, especially small self-employed, second-class citizens and I apologize for being so expressive and I will tell you why. The first time I pointed out that the self-employed have to pay taxes and social contributions. The same work, such as mowing the lawn for example, is not subject to this by the citizen-to-citizen. The self-employed are thus once again endorsed. Should I ask you to compare the social status of workers, civil servants and self-employed workers... the situation of the self-employed has already improved considerably, for which I thank the current and previous governments, to be honest. These and previous governments have already improved the social status of self-employed workers, but the difference between employees and civil servants is still considerable. What do we say now? Or what does the Court of Auditors say, which is more weighty? According to the Court of Auditors, losses for social status could even amount to EUR 190 million. This is a serious loss for the social status of the self-employed, which must already be greatly improved. Moreover, the self-employed in the main occupation are sometimes already exposed to competition from the self-employed in the secondary profession. That's got to be said. Now we want to make it even easier for the people who work with us: drop the statute and come back to work within the framework of the new system. This is not just what we are saying, because 31 percent of the self-employed in the secondary sector are likely to change to that system: 40 000 self-employed in the secondary sector. This is how we think, once again, not of the self-employed in the main occupation, the small self-employed. A great deal has already been said about the work of association and about services between citizens, but I would like to say a word about the sharing economy. Think before you start, ladies and gentlemen Chamberlains. That's a beautiful Flemish proverb. Shared economy income is provisionally taxed at 10% with a threshold of EUR 5 100. The new system would increase this to EUR 6 000 and would also eliminate the 10%. As Mrs Deiteren has just put it very clearly, if an activity is not included in the list of activities of citizens-to-citizens, it will be sought whether it can be carried out in the framework of the collaborative economy or through the platforms. We are already receiving requests on this subject. Sometimes we get very strange questions, but there are already people working out how to set up such a system to ensure that any activity can happen under those conditions. It's very clear to my organization. It is very noble of the government to want to solve the problem of undeclared work. It's very noble to encourage official work. We support this for 200 %. However, what we do not agree with is that we are trying to solve a problem, but at the same time we are creating another huge problem, in particular that small self-employed people are getting away with it. That's very bad. You cannot justify that the same activity is treated socially and fiscally differently according to the person exercising the activity. We cannot accept that. Worse still, those who are in the more favourable regime have already worked four fifths elsewhere and thus already have income. Our little self-employed sometimes has difficult times and sometimes needs extra work. You're gonna take that sandwich. It's very simple for me. There's gonna be elections soon. I believe that we should communicate very transparently with regard to our small self-employed people who is in favour and who is against, who is thinking of our small self-employed and who is not. The NSZ stands for Neutral Syndicate for Self-employed/Syndicat Neutre pour Indépendants. All political parties, of whatever colour, who help our small self-employed, I will mention in large letters in our trade magazine. I will also mention the political parties that are now abandoning our small self-employed. That is transparency and honesty. We are defending our small self-employed and we do not want to let them take away their sandwiches.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-18-54-commissie-ic784x.u15	I still have something to say. Many people have spoken about employment, but unfortunately I am the only one who represents volunteerism. It is all the more unfortunate that in reality it was the Higher Council of Volunteers, Federal Council, Advisory Council, which, in particular, launched this idea which we called at the time. When I say we are the French-speaking Platform for Semi-agoral Volunteering. I would have liked it all the more if the Vice-President, who is also with us and who is Dutch-speaking, could have spoken. This would have shown that it is not just the southern part of the country that reacts, but also the northern part of the country. Don't worry, it's no big deal! I will recite the opinion of the CSV which, I am sure, had to arrive in your mailboxes. First of all, thank you for the invitation! Since we're in the Christmas season, for volunteering, it's not Christmas every year. No, no! Since 2014, the platform has been thinking at length about what it will put on its list, thinking at length about what was called semi-agoral and which has been taken up here under the term of associative work. In fact, I will devote myself only to this one, since it is really this issue that concerns us. The platform was invited as an expert to the Higher Council of Volunteers because it was asked to evaluate the law on volunteering in 2015. So this is on our Christmas list, the first thing we have indicated and I am looking under the tree, I still do not see any change to the law of volunteerism of 3 July 2005. Under the tree, there is, on the other hand, another small gift entitled "Associative workers". Since we're associations, there's every reason to think it's for us. So we unpack him. Is that the second thing we asked for on our list, that is, the creation of a new status? Yes, because the fact for the voluntary sector and for the voluntary sector is that today, unfortunately, many associations have recourse to the status of the volunteer in order to be able to pay. Clearly, it's not volunteerism. They recognize it themselves. There was even pressure within the sector itself to try to increase the ceilings for voluntary work, which did not always seem wise. As a result, the voluntary sector said that "it would be good to create a new status, a status that would clearly distinguish itself from volunteering and employment." But that, I let my counterparts today talk to you about the issue of employment. To this end, the Higher Council of Volunteers had clearly already been able to dream of the project and propose a whole series of criteria that would bring real added value to this status. The first thing that is said in this opinion is that this status must be compensated. It goes without saying, but I'm still going back to it. The need for this new status was linked to the need for a status that could be remunerated. Here, we can talk more modestly about compensation. But finally, you had to give something, pay an amount. If we read section 113, we think everything's fine. It is referred to as "any activity carried out within the limits of this chapter for compensation". However, if Article 123 § 1 is repeated, all of a sudden, it is stated that "the parties involved in associative work may, I insist, and not, subject to the provisions of this Chapter, agree on an allowance for associative work. Ah! So, like volunteering, you can give something or not. The borders are already clearly blurring! We also said that it had to be taxed, not because we are a fan of taxation or we dream of taxing absolutely anything. Not at all! But, because we wanted to make a clear difference between income, when you pay someone for time – you can say it's an allowance, but you still give money for time – and the volunteer's payment, which is pure reimbursement of expenses. The volunteer, on the other hand, gives time that he doesn't count. That's what we said. Because he's already giving time, we're not going to make him pay for his business. The best thing is we can pay him back, but it's not mandatory. Again, it depends on the means. That's why there was a total exemption. That seemed logical to us. When he gets his money back, we don't tell him, "You're going to be taxed on something you've spent." So, all of a sudden, we can see that this second concept, which allowed for a distinction, was approved by all sectors. I want to say it. While it was realized that some sectors needed it more than others, even those sectors that needed this new status particularly agreed and understood it well, since they themselves had volunteers in their clubs and associations. So the difference is really reduced. Secondly, we also mentioned the desirability of setting a time limit and that there was a link between the allowance, the nature of the benefit and the activity. We had suggested that the limit should not exceed 1/3 time in order not to compete with employment. Finally, we find no notion of it. We're thinking that we need to do the right thing about volunteering. But in volunteering, there is a lump sum payment for the day or year and, if not, the costs are actually reimbursed. We find ourselves in this logic. But we don't pay for hours in volunteer work! We don't pay for time, we pay for money committed by the volunteer. We're only paying costs. We can say we're stinging. And what about volunteering? In particular, labour law does not apply. But in the case of volunteering, it is not so clear. With regard to the volunteer platform, we would like to see labour law not applied to these situations because it cannot apply to all situations. Some situations cannot fall within the scope of labour law. For example, a child who sells candles for Amnesty International or post-it Cap 48: why would he be less willing than the 40-year-old? Labour law is more complicated. Another example is the youth movement leaders who leave in large camps and leave for two weeks, plus the pre- and post-camp. In total, it's been about 20 days and beginning to make sure that they have taken their rest well, that they haven't chained too many hours, it's a little complicated. As a result, the High Council of Volunteers had said, in the context of volunteering, that a great deal of analysis should be carried out on labour law so that the platform could tell associations what applied or not. But then, let us be honest, from the moment a statute is created, when the allowance is not necessarily liable, when labour law does not apply (which is clearly said), it may be better to get in there. One then enters into a logic that makes us volunteers/signatories of a contract "associative worker" and for which normality will be more oriented towards the commodification of an act that was initially an act of solidarity and by nature, free of charge. This raises the question, since it seems to me that we are talking about economic recovery and social cohesion in this project. All right! But as far as volunteers were concerned, the 2005 law already existed. Would this 2005 law be less interesting than this other status next door? Finally, and not least, we believe that the dihyrambic list was included in the original Royal Order and was included in the bill. In doing so, we make sure that it will be very complicated to change anything in the future, which really raises questions, knowing that there are – this has been said by the other people interviewed – points that make it possible to include a lot of activities. For example, Article 114(9) states: "...people active in initiatives for community development, the sociocultural animation of adults, environmental protection organisations, cultural and real estate heritage, education for sustainable development, cultural and artistic organisations". I think I can say that you have put about 75% of any volunteer in the voluntary sector who can suddenly end up as an associative worker. So we're faced with real competition for volunteer status. In fact, it's like you don't see the added value of volunteering. It is as if the only added value of volunteering was to be a cheap labour force. In our view, with this bill, we really miss out on the added value of volunteering. I will not extend myself along and wide on this point. But I will answer any questions I may have about this. Anyway, the volunteer is much more than the guy who comes to work for free and allows for a nice economy for the association. That's not at all. When the associations are asked why they are taking volunteers, the first argument is not necessarily economic. Finally, I would like to make a little metaphor on Christmas. It is hoped that Parliament will have the gift ticket and that it will be possible to exchange it, make improvements and table the necessary amendments so that the voluntary sector can smile at the gift.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-18-54-commissie-ic784x.u16	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank all the speakers for their time, but certainly also because they have all kept to speaking time. We still have a little time left. I would suggest that I give the floor briefly to Mr Philippe Andrianne, who is here and who can also briefly tell us something.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-18-54-commissie-ic784x.u17	Mr President, I will be brief because your time is running out. In addition, the main arguments were put forward. As Emmeline Orban has just said, the idea came from the Higher Council of Volunteers (CSV), which, in the context of the evaluation of the Law on Volunteering, which had been requested by Mrs De Block, gave an opinion to improve the Law on Volunteers and Volunteering and, at the same time, proposed that consideration be given to a particular status which would prevent an attempt to "put on the foot" under the status of volunteer a whole series of persons and functions which were in activities peripheral to the non-market, the social world, and which were carried out in a social but in a paid way, in a very "grey" way. It seemed to me important to be able to also meet a whole series of requests from, among others, the sports sector, which is participating in the CSV and which itself has a lot of questions about the project that is on the table today because it is going to pose problems to it. They wanted to have a status that made it possible to meet coaches, coaches, instructors and other small functions of this type in small clubs – we obviously do not talk about Anderlecht or Bruges. Here, with the expansion of the field of activities, there is really a problem in the sports sector because, given the communications made to the press, or which have been transmitted for misunderstood by the press, many volunteers in sports clubs are asking for the possibility of having the €6,000, including those who hold the drink or trace the lines of the playgrounds. However, no sports club will be able to meet these demands. So the image of volunteerism has been blurred in a lot of structures by putting such a broad spectrum on the project. I will not go back to the difficulties we see in other areas. I am focusing on the "associative work" project and fully sharing what has been said by the social partners on the other two aspects. Nevertheless, it is certain that, through the "collaborative platforms" component, a whole series of missions will also be able to interfere within the framework of volunteering and within the framework of associations. To give you a very small example, I was for 18 years the president of an association of family workers and health workers (1,650 workers). Tomorrow, these people who work under contract will eventually find themselves in competition with others who will be placed on the market, including night guards, through associative work or collaborative platforms, including by bringing people in as part of the European detachment. This is already happening now. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will end by telling you that sometimes when we want to solve the problems in three sectors in a single text, we achieve the desired objective. I draw your attention to all the elements that have been given today. I was very short, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-18-54-commissie-ic784x.u18	Ladies and gentlemen, I suggest that I give you the floor now to ask questions. Mr Van der Donkt, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-18-54-commissie-ic784x.u19	Mr President, I am coming straight to the door: I do not really have any questions. The N-VA Group has listened very carefully to the various statements. They show that there is a wide-ranging and often very well-defined, yet constructive criticism of the draft law currently under discussion. Ladies and gentlemen, you can be sure that we will take the elements of criticism you have given us into the substance of the debates. That is all I have to add for the time being. Mr President, I think you will agree with me that we will have some work to do tomorrow.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-18-54-commissie-ic784x.u20	Mr President, I thank our guests for their various contributions and arguments. I have rarely seen such unanimity against a project, with representatives of employers, workers, self-employed people and volunteers. This is in line with my concerns and grievances about the perverse effects and risks of this draft legislation. It is true that there are societal needs that need to be addressed, there is undeclared work that needs to be reduced. It is clear from the various contributions that without safeguards, there is a real discrimination that will be created between the unemployed, the employees, the self-employed – who, for many, are already workers at risk of precariousness. There will also be discrimination if you go through a platform or not. And if we're going to put some safeguards in place, we're going to a gas plant that won't stop anything. In the face of all this, I hope that Parliament will be reasonable in this Christmas season. I hope that the debate will go in that direction tomorrow.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-18-54-commissie-ic784x.u21	Mr. Daerden, you're taking the testimonies, too, in the suitcase, as it were? So you're following the N-VA? The surprises aren't over, but that's okay, colleagues?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-18-54-commissie-ic784x.u22	Mr President, I just want to thank all the speakers. Like my colleague from the N-VA, I would say that we have taken note of their comments and will discuss them tomorrow.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-18-54-commissie-ic784x.u23	I would like to thank the speakers for their input into the debate. The first question is simply informative. This design has been under construction since the summer. Has there been any kind of substantive consultation with the relevant minister or administrations on the preparation of this draft? That's just an informative question that interests me. Secondly, an attempt to judge, but you must correct me, if necessary. As far as occasional work is concerned, I feel that the points of criticism and therefore of desired adjustment are related to the following aspects: occasional work should not take place in the context of professional activity, an impact analysis should be carried out, quality requirements should be drawn up and it cannot become a earning model for intermediaries. That's a fact. I'm asking a bit of the same question about the sharing platforms. The theorem is that it undermines the other two shutters, because it allows everything, while the other two shutters are fitted with restrictive lists and a number of locks. Do I understand correctly that the matter will be discussed again when corrections are made, such as 10% taxes and the restrictive list, or that instead of recognizing platforms, better activities will be recognised? Are these the most critical factors in order to make any progress? As far as the time loan is concerned, I have understood across all three domains that this accumulation must be removed. I am trying to sum it up a little bit: what are the elements that can actually lead us to perhaps make progress? A final element for the three together concerns both control and sanctions: there would also be far too many uncertainties about this. I would have liked to have had some more explanation about the consequences for the association work, but perhaps that has happened at the time I was not here yet. I apologize for that. There is the tension with the neighborhood work, which is started on January 1st, so the union work versus neighborhood work. That is also what the intention is for people who are in an activation process to work occasionally. I would have liked to have a little more explanation.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-18-54-commissie-ic784x.u24	Mr President, in my turn I would like to thank everyone for coming here and giving their input, despite the fact that we do not agree on everything. I have some questions for the panel. I have heard several times that the definition of "casual activities" causes difficulties, to what extent it would be aligned. It is the government that puts down the draft and the majority in Parliament that implements it. The alignment serves to avoid unfair competition. It is said that the distinction lies in the fact that if one does something professional, it entails full taxation and social contributions. There they place the cesorship in occasional cases. You often see a collusion between those two, you say that it is not clearly definable and delineable and that it entails a risk that regular work which is fully taxed today will conflict with those occasional activities. What the government is perhaps trying to do with the draft is to fine-tune the fact that it is indeed about matters that are not otherwise to be done professionally. I agree that otherwise there is a risk of difficulties. I wonder, however, whether a different definition will be proposed, because I have not heard anyone say that. Occasional activities are another straight line, but they are defined, so maybe we can find something there. Are there any other proposals for a definition to meet this? I have also understood that there would be another application that needs to be clarified, but it must of course have a legal basis. I look forward to any suggestions. I have heard that Unizo did so with her amendments. I have another question for the VBO. Mrs Vermeersch said that in the case of time-credit, if one goes to four-fifths, one can rely on it. However, I understand that this would just be excluded in the last amendments to the text. Can you explain that to me? I also have a question for Mrs Deiteren from Unizo. You propose not to be able to accommodate the same activity as the professional activity in this system. However, this in turn excludes a number of things that one might wish to facilitate, such as a tutoring teacher. Don't you think you're going a little too far there? Are there no other solutions? You are making it impossible for a number of possibilities to be made possible. Mr Van Laer, you mentioned those quality criteria. The government's compromise shows that there will still be consultations with the regions on these quality criteria in social profit. I also have an additional question for you: you are actually saying that it is a way of paying for the ageing population. I don't think anyone said that. I would like to ask you whether you really believe that with fixed staff, nurses and healthcare professionals who are not in the labour market today, you will be able to cope with the ageing wave with ordinary contracts of employment. If you can guarantee me that we will be there for the next 20 years in this sector with the normal workforce, I would like to see you again in twenty years' time with just more than one beer to see if it will succeed effectively. I think we're going to need effective systems. We will need the families, we will need many people to be able to meet the enormous needs that are coming in our care for the elderly. I see a lot of staff who are completely burned up and have a workload that is not human, because there is just too little. Settings look for people and don't find them. What would be wrong with someone who is retired and has the qualifications, who would then help something in this system? What would be wrong with that?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-18-54-commissie-ic784x.u25	I would like to thank all the speakers for their time, but above all for their clear concerns and clear explanations of a draft that we will have to discuss tomorrow. It's about a summer chord. It is still unclear why this government has taken five months to submit the texts, but I am glad that we can start the debate on this today. It is an important issue and nobody here in the Chamber does not want to discuss it. Everyone says there's something to be said for it, but the way and the way the law was filed does raise a lot of questions. I hear my colleagues from the majority say that they will take it into the debate tomorrow. The people who came here today have done their homework thoroughly. They come up with clear arguments, not a general demand. In particular, an amendment has already been tabled which makes it even more concrete, so that we can start the debate effectively tomorrow and not just empty words. There is a need for a change, not just a debate and approval of the draft as it stands. There is a need for clear adjustments. In fact, everyone also takes a little time to make an impact analysis. Mr Lachaert, you are now asking our guests to define what occasional work should be, how it should be done. Again, it was an agreement this summer. We could have taken all the time to sit down with those involved to clearly align that and to agree with the sectors what is and what is not. Now the most spacious and broad was taken. To be honest, I've never seen this before. I have not heard anyone speak positively about the measure as it has been tabled. I hope that will wake up the majority. We have tried to ask for time to discuss this in detail. We hit a njet. I hope your testimonies will have an impact and that people will have an ear for it. I don't have any more questions. I had some reservations myself, but they were all filled in during your speeches. A big merci and we'll take this with us. Hopefully it won't just be words.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-18-54-commissie-ic784x.u26	Thank you very much. We received this document on Thursday on our benches and we were faced with the request of our colleagues of the majority (who, as ecologists, we are not part of) to vote on it before 31 December. We made a clear proposal, considering that the elements on which you have just given comments were totally inaboutis and problematic, to remove these elements from the text in order to be able to have a real consultation with you. At this stage, this has not yet been accepted, but we have at least obtained these hearings, which are extremely useful. I think that's really what a parliament should serve. I regret that it is so difficult to obtain hearings in general. In addition, you have allowed us to have a moment of extraordinary surrealism, because I do not know exactly, after hearing my colleagues, who, in the majority, really support this text. Maybe Mr. Van Quickenborne, but he will speak, he often does, last. Perhaps with your intervention, we will be able to correct what has been wrong. The original intention, as I understand it, is to resolve a specific issue in the sports sector and in the cultural sector. Anyone who attends sports clubs - I am - realizes that there is something special to which a public response must be given. But to try to solve a small problem, a small issue, we created a very big problem, on which you put words: deregulation of the labour market. I hope, Mr Lachaert, that we will be able to find tomorrow, and to finance tomorrow, in order to meet the challenge of ageing, workers who have a real status, who are properly paid, who have rules of ethics, permanent training with sufficient public resources, rather than creating understatuts and obliging workers, either to have several jobs or once they are pensioners, to have a supplementary job. The other important word you mentioned is "unfair competition". It is unbearable to the self-employed, to the SMEs to imagine, while they need everything to finish the month and year, to be put in competition by workers who do not pay social contributions or taxes. It's finally a form of black money laundering. They say we're going to eliminate work in the dark, but we're going to institutionalize it somewhere, if it's voted. This is a problem in relation to the protection of workers and their social rights. I have heard an essential element here. What happens to a worker who has an accident as part of this activity? If he was self-employed or under employment status, he would benefit from accident insurance at work, but there, as Mr Valentin has explained very well, he falls back under the general rules of law, including if he is permanently and totally incapacitated because he fell from a tree by helping a neighbour to elevate problematic branches. Can we accept it today? This would be a step backwards from extraordinary labour law. Secondly, there is a clear problem of financing social security, since some of the self-employed, whether or not they are part of the system, will no longer pay their social contributions. The Court of Auditors, on the basis of a note from the SPF Finances, attempted to make a projection and identified the de-financing of the social security of the self-employed at nearly EUR 200 million. I have a few questions for you. Were you seeking this system? Does this correspond, beyond the sports and cultural sector, to elements of a claim book that you put on the table? Since July, have you been working together? I repeat an excellent question from Mr Vercamer, who is part of the majority, which is not my case. Have you been working together since July on this subject, before today and before the NTC's opinion that we have read? Are you prepared specifically to help us in both sectors, the sports sector and the cultural sector, where there is a consensus that we need to work in a specific sui generis status? As far as the collaborative economy side is concerned, do you not think that the programme, which was set up by the 2016 Program Law, should be allowed to live its life, evaluated in terms of tax revenues, regularization rather than already changing it and increasing competition with other sectors? These are the questions I wanted to ask you, thanking you for having mobilized you so quickly to make such explicit presentations, which will serve the work we will continue until 31 December. Above all, I hope that common sense will manifest itself and that these texts will be either definitively forgotten or fundamentally reworked.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-18-54-commissie-ic784x.u27	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to join all the thanks that have been extended to you. You have again demonstrated today how much the social partners can bring major added value by demonstrating their knowledge and experience of such schemes on the ground. The only conclusion that must be made after all of you have listened to is that it is important to review this project from bottom to bottom. That's the unanimous message you sent us. Personally, I am struck by your insistence on unfair competition - to the detriment of the self-employed, SMEs and volunteers. With the system as it is currently being designed, intra-Belgian social dumping is being promoted. In essence, such a measure may prove interesting, but not in all sectors or in any way. In any case, at first, we could imagine its application in the worlds of sport and culture. Second, a sector-by-sector impact assessment should be conducted. Indeed, all of them are, broadly speaking, affected by this device. This should, of course, be done in conjunction with the social partners, but also with the federated entities. Who says it is necessary to fundamentally review this text, obviously says it is necessary to rework the draft. That's why I'd like to turn to the majority. If we want to draw up something quickly, on the margins, done well, with a few small amendments hoping that the measure will pass, I believe that we will clearly be depriving ourselves of an essential overhaul of this indispensable project, which must be conceived seriously. As I have just pointed out, if a coherent and effective system is to be achieved, it is necessary to work sector by sector by systematically measuring the potentially harmful impact and, conversely, the potential benefits. I would like to put three elements on the table to allow me to push you a little further. The first is in relation to the self-employed on a complementary basis. I have, as a matter of fact, but I would like to meet with you again to see if I am not mistaken, that almost 90% of the self-employed earn less than €6,000 per year of taxable income. Is this data correct? If this is correct, then it can be concluded that almost 90 % of the self-employed on a supplementary basis, if they can earn this EUR 6 000 by not being taxed or taxed and not having to pay social contributions and recalling that the self-employed on a supplementary basis do not build social rights on their self-employed income on a supplementary basis, will all choose a different formula than that of remaining self-employed on a supplementary basis, since it will be for the same amount without the taxes or other contributions required of them. Secondly, Mr Verjans, I believe that it was you who spoke about this and that is an important point. In essence, in professional activities, if we go into the regulations, decrees and decrees of the Regions and the Communities, the quality standards are linked to the fact that we are well in professional activities. This would mean here, since one is not normally in a professional activity, that these regulations of the Regions and Communities do not apply. However, in Article 114, it is stated in the text that the measure referred to here does not change any of the possible existing regulatory requirements, conditions and criteria relating to, inter alia, quality, recognition, safety and hygiene. Nor is it affected by this, either, by the powers of the Regions or the Communities. It is therefore contradictory. On the one hand, the Regions and Communities have said that the rules apply only if one is part of a professional activity. On the other hand, the bill says that, in substance, the rules of the Regions and Communities must also be applied, even though the text says, at the same time, that it is not a professional activity. Since you have done an extremely sophisticated analysis on this subject at the NTC level, do you have different examples to highlight on this particular aspect? Secondly, depending on the way in which the majority wants to move forward on the issue, is there not a real urgency? If the majority wants to finalize its intentions, namely to vote quickly, in the coming days, the rules of the Regions and Communities (decrees, decrees, etc.) should be changed as a matter of urgency. to ensure that any activity carried out in this context – even if this bill does not specify that it is a professional activity – in all these sectors is carried out in accordance with the same quality and safety rules. If the government and the majority want to move forward, then in the end, the only way to protect users (children, people with disabilities, home care recipients, etc.) and to take into account the most vulnerable persons such as the elderly (I go back to Unisoc) would, by working backwards, impose that the rules of the Regions and Communities should be imposed even outside of a professional activity to offer locks and guarantees to vulnerable people so that they do not find themselves in situations where quality and safety would not be guaranteed. It is the world backwards, in my opinion, since the issue is first and foremost not to allow anything to be done with this bill rather than to have to deal with the perverse effects in a way that would not be adequate. Thirdly, following the intervention of my colleague Mr Lachaert, pointing out that the problem of the non-accumulation of a person with a 4/5th grade and an allowance from the ONEM was settled in the text of the law, I would like to ask a third question. I heard another version of you and found that it was written in the statement of reasons but not settled in the sections of law. Do you share this analysis? I would like to point out to Mr Lachaert that this is written in the explanatory memorandum, but that is not enough; it must be concrete in the law. I would like to conclude by appealing to you, as well as to the majority. Colleagues, if we want to be serious – this proposal comes from all today's speakers – we all need to work together. Let's freeze this part of the bill, do a job behind the scenes in a responsible and serious manner, which would allow the problems to be dealt with in a strict and serious manner in order to avoid all these perverse effects. We cannot afford to move forward today by making small, hasty corrections and by not measuring all the perverse effects. I think you would agree to work in this way, at the level of all the components of the CNT, with the NIS which is not represented at the CNT and with the various bodies of volunteerism.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-18-54-commissie-ic784x.u28	Are there any colleagues who wish to speak? I too would like to thank the speakers for their comments and comments. First of all, I would like to say that the discussions between the government and the social partners at different times have not been deaf talk, and that there have been changes to the texts that have been tabled in Parliament. The whole discussion of the list of permitted activities has led to three changes to that list, as far as I know, at the first reading, at the Royal Decree and at the second reading of the draft law. There is also the adjustment related to the EUR 6 000. At one point there was talk of accepting up to EUR 1 000 per month. This was adjusted to a maximum of 500 euros. Soon I will come to the element of the collaborative economy. There was also the adjustment related to the unemployed and time-credit. There had been some fuss about the unemployed, if I am not mistaken, and this was adapted. This also applies to the time loan. The comments on this matter were amended at the second reading of the draft law. In connection with time-credit, you can only read Article 115, §1, paragraph 1, in the last part of the text, you will see that the text has been modified. I have listened carefully to the expulsions of all the speakers. I have noticed that there are misunderstandings here and there. I would like to clarify a few things. First of all, in connection with time credit and runways. Mr Lachaert has already said this. In the meantime, this is being ruled out. There is a lot of discussion about the word occasionally.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-18-54-commissie-ic784x.u29	Is there going to be an amendment to that?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-18-54-commissie-ic784x.u30	I was talking about Article 115, § 1, first point, last part of the text.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-18-54-commissie-ic784x.u31	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-18-54-commissie-ic784x.u32	I see there's a lot of discussion, but I'm just saying I read the law. (...): (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-18-54-commissie-ic784x.u33	Unemployed people and people in the time-credit system are therefore excluded. Secondly, on the occasional aspect. An important issue is how to distinguish professional activities from occasional activities. This is one of the most important issues, especially for the representatives of the self-employed who have spoken. The word occasionally is defined in the legislation, ladies and gentlemen. It is defined in the context of tax legislation: various revenues are income derived from occasional activities. That is the existing provision. What is an occasional activity has been governed by tax legislation for decades, so I think it seems obvious that this provision is being transferred to what is being determined here. In other words, an occasional activity is not a professional activity. Some have said that there is no sanction, but that is not correct, because if the thresholds are exceeded, the first euro will be taxed as a professional income, not only in the current year but also in the following year. Several social inspection services are responsible for monitoring the application of the Social Criminal Code. Someone asked what the meaning of Article 152 was. Article 152 specifies, inter alia, which inspection services are competent to carry out checks. If we consider Article 152 to be superfluous, then perhaps we should delete it, but then there is no more control and I do not think that would be very sensible. Some argued that it is unclear that they are not professional activities, but that is not true. It expressly states in the draft law that it must be about occasional activities in the free time of the citizen. It was also claimed that the list would later be established or may be amended by Royal Decree. That's not right. The list is included in the law as it stands, because it determines the taxable basis. That cannot be arranged by royal decree. In other words, Parliament must approve it. Any amendments will also have to be approved by Parliament by means of a legislative amendment. Now I come to the comments on the lack of quality criteria. These comments are incorrect, because we do not change the legislation or the decree-making of the Communities. We only provide for a tax exemption for a broad list of activities. The legislation of the Communities shall continue to apply without prejudice. In fact, the Communities are free to adapt and, if necessary, to tighten up legislation. An argument was also made that there is no control over the sharing economy. However, in the collaborative economy everything has to be paid electronically. I wonder if self-employed people would dare to defend that cash payments would be abolished from now on and everything would be paid digitally. I have been in favour of it for ten years, but I have been denounced for it by many organisations. The best way to get undeclared work out of it is to make electronic payments for all activities, because then it is done with undeclared work. Are the self-employed organisations prepared to defend the electronic payment we are now introducing for the collaborative economy? I am in favour of it, because it seems to me to be a fairly effective control mechanism of what is happening. It reminds me of the discussion with taxi drivers about the alternative sharing economy. The taxi drivers call the sharing economy and the accompanying payments a disgrace. Those payments all happen digitally, with the card. However, as we all know, taxi drivers are never paid in black, right? It's solved with paper receipts. And those receipts are fraud-insensitive, right? In the collaborative economy, with a threshold of EUR 6 000, all revenues are shared with all administrations. Any payment can be checked. Ladies and gentlemen, these are a number of misunderstandings that I would like to eliminate if you have looked at the draft law properly. I have a few comments to make. Firstly, after having looked at the legislation, it is noted that there are still a lot of barriers in place, thresholds which must be properly framed. I am thinking, for example, of the provision that at least four fifths must be worked or retired. Both the citizen-to-citizen system and the association work represent a specific threshold, which we also apply to flexi-jobs. I know that for some, the flexi-jobs system is not a pleasant instrument. I know that. We are against it, we have gone to the Constitutional Court, we have been told that this cannot be done. However, it has been approved and the government will extend this measure to many other sectors. I have already said to Mr Daerden, who is no longer present, that when they are asked what they think of the flexi-jobs, only a few hospitality operators think it is a bad measure. On the contrary, I know bakers and butchers. I also occasionally come among the people who ask when they could use that system. That's right. It is therefore right that the flexi-jobs measure brings greater flexibility to the legislation. Hence the name flexi-jobs of course. However, the measure is limited to those who work four fifths or more. Why do we do that? That is because we believe that those who do not draw social rights from the system, because they do not contribute to it, must ensure that they have at least a certain status. Others will claim that this is the matthew effect, because it is given to those who already have a lot. But what is the question of the person in question? Is it actually said that those who do not have a statute, such as a social security fund, should also be able to exercise a flexi job and participate in such systems? Is that what people want? If that is allowed, I fear that people will turn to the German road. That's what real mini-jobs are all about. Is that what people want? To disable the matthew effect? I have my questions about that. Secondly, the EUR 500 threshold. They say: 'Watch out, so one will push away the self-employed activity.' But 500 euros a month is 500 euros. That is clearly a lock that is built in and should be respected. Thirdly, control. It is the first time in our country, and I think that everything should be notified electronically. So no more papers. It's over with the paper mountain. Finally! Everything has to be digitally logged in. Either this is done via a pre-recognized platform on which all payments must be recorded, from the first to the last euro. There already exists such a platform for chores. The name escapes me now. Honestly, I haven't used it yet. I'm not very good at that yet. But I know even some people in this House who have already made use of it and who are very satisfied with it. Everything is digitally recorded. Payments are also recorded. There is therefore an electronic notification before one starts. We must then give up all the information, and if we do not do so, there will of course be a sanction, because then we will be violating the provisions of the Social Criminal Code. In addition to the full payment which is regarded as professional income, one must also pay a fine. It must therefore be notified, otherwise there is a serious problem. Some restrictions have rightly been introduced. The employer is not allowed to work as an association. That's obvious. An employee must not put his employer in unfair competition in the context of citizens-to-citizens. That threshold is laid down in the legislation. If you exceed EUR 6 000, the income from the first euro will be requalified as professional income. There is also a provision on insurance, Mr Gilkinet. In the case of association work, the association must take out an additional insurance for civil liability and physical damage, so that those people are insured. I have also heard from the volunteers that association work would pose a threat to volunteers. I don't think that's true. After all, these are two systems that can exist side by side. I'll run it against a soccer club. Parents, who are volunteers in the football association to take on a number of tasks, receive an allowance for this. This is not compensation for the work they have done, but it is compensation for, for example, the movements they have made. The union work is of course something else. That's someone who teaches, who's a sports teacher at that association and who gets paid for it. He is paid not only for his expenses, for his movements, but also for the work he or she does. So that's about two separate systems. We now give more freedom of choice to the people. That's what life is about, too, about creating systems where people can choose something. Of course, they are not obliged to do so, but they are given the opportunity to do so. By the way, most volunteers don't do their job to get paid, not because of the pennies, while those who do association work do. That's the big difference between the two groups. I hear a lot of points about unfair competition for the small self-employed. I have listened to that very carefully. Those anti-abuse provisions are valid. One has to work at least four fifths in main job. In other words, it will not be the case that one suddenly takes another job. It must be an occasional activity, not a professional activity. There is the limit of EUR 6 000, there is the limit of EUR 500 and there is the clear provision that workers should not put their employers in unfair competition. I have already spoken about registration. Mrs Deiteren, you said that it should not be extended. It is my belief that the system can be a stepping stone to become self-employed later on. Through occasional activities, some people may get desire to undertake. If they do so professionally, they must, of course, opt for a self-employed status, either in the main occupation or in the secondary profession. It has also been accused that self-employed workers would switch to the citizen-to-citizen system, which would mean that the self-employed system would lose money. First of all, when the collaborative economy was introduced a year or two ago, a merit of Alexander De Croo. We are one of the first countries in the world to create a clear system for the sharing economy......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... But all I have seen is that the number of self-employed has increased dramatically over the last few years. We've even been at the highest level since 1995. So I don't think the impact will be that big. Besides, there is a fundamental difference between a self-employed person in the main occupation and certainly a self-employed person in the secondary profession and what we are discussing here. A self-employed worker may advertise, which does not occasionally do so, but on appeal, which means that he does something systematically. It can also carry out an unlimited number of activities, while the proposal makes a clear list of what is and cannot be done. It expresses the fear of a number of provisions, but this is clearly defined and limited in the text. That does not alter the fact that we must have an ear, and we have done so because of the fear that has been expressed here. I would like to conclude with the following. I think that what we are dealing with here is quite innovative. Often when new legislation comes, people, rightly so, also look at difficult elements. In that case, they miss out on the opportunities offered by legislation. Normally, legislation is meant to limit people in what they do. For a man is free, unless the law forbids you. That is one of the basic principles of our free market economy. Well, the proposed legislation makes things possible, gives people choices, gives people freedom. And that's what it's about. Instead of doing things 'in the dive', in the gray, in the black, which is happening everywhere and much now, I know that you are saying that it is not true. This is subject to conditions which must be strictly respected. I would like to conclude with a word that has been used here a few times, namely disruption. Whether one wants it or not, the economy is changing rapidly. As a legislator, we can go after the facts. Here we are at the forefront and we are creating frameworks for new activities that arise. An example is a very good framework for the collaborative economy, one of the economies of the future. It is liberal that we should seize those opportunities in our country to encourage entrepreneurship today. We ask them to take that step, to seize that opportunity. Disruptive economy requires disruptive legislation. That's what's going on here now. She's pretty disruptive. As a liberal, I understand that there is often a great deal of fear of doing so in Parliament and in politics. I've always been a politician, for 18 years, who wants to lead the way. It's bumped up once in a while. I'll admit that grif. The renewal and change in society I want to give the opportunity to form. The proposed legislation does indeed meet this requirement. I am therefore an absolute believer, Mr Gilkinet, in this legislation. I am very much in favour of this legislation. I believe there are a lot of people in society who support them. The flexi jobs were told the same thing, by your party and numerous other parties. In the meantime, we have seen that no less than thirty thousand people have done such a job. If the bakers and the bone-cutters are allowed to do it soon, a multitude will start working. That's what we have to do. We must encourage and provide frameworks. That is what we are doing with the new legislation. I really believe it can be a success. I also hope that I can convince other colleagues to vote in favour. I would like to give the floor to colleagues from the various organisations to reply to the speeches made by colleagues in Parliament. I'd like to follow the same order. Begin, Mrs. Deiteren.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-18-54-commissie-ic784x.u34	Mr President, I would like to stress once again that we are absolutely not opposed to innovation and digitisation, but it is a real problem to say that those who work through a platform will be favoured by those who do not work through a platform. Those who exercise something in the main occupation are given a less favourable regime than those who do something in the secondary profession. That is the essence of our criticism. A number of people have said here that this is about occasional activities, so don't worry. That is also something that has come back a number of times during our discussion. However, the draft law does not provide for locks to ensure that it is effective in the field of occasional activities. In my view, occasional is the opposite of professional. However, it is said here in the law that it does not matter how it is exercised. Even if we apply the normal rules to see if something is professional, none of this counts here. We put that completely in brackets and only look at whether the EUR 500 or 600 has been respected and whether the list of activities remains, and not even at the platforms. This is the only criterion that is retained in these systems in order to determine whether something is occasional or professional. That's the problem. I'm gonna be a little technical, but I guess that's what it takes. It is often referred to Article 131 (e), where it is said that profits or benefits arise outside the exercise of a professional activity. That should be the key, that it is not about professional activities, but that is not true. I invite you to look at the explanatory memorandum to the Programme Act of 1 July 2016, which explains a similar provision for the sharing economy system via electronic platforms. It is quite clear that this wording merely means that a self-employed person should not have his own activity under a platform or an occasional activity, but it is explicitly stated that when one is an employee and one does a professional activity outside the job as an employee, i.e. a secondary job, as a self-employed person, this or under these systems, and that the normal rules for determining whether it is a professional activity or not, no longer apply. That's the problem. I have therefore been asked how this could be resolved, on which I have tabled an amendment: make it very clear that the normal rules for determining whether something is a professional activity or not will continue to apply, and that these systems should only apply when, according to all normal rules, it is actually about an occasional activity. That's very important, isn't it? Secondly, Catherine will go into it in more detail, but the exclusion of time credits is indeed not foreseen. An amendment has been tabled, but that is not enough to regulate this accumulation. Are the 500-euro and four-fifths bars real? Mrs Matthews has already mentioned that so many self-employed people carry out contracts for which they are paid less than EUR 500 per month. These are real self-employed people and they are in trouble. The EUR 500 and four fifths are explicitly not applicable when working through a platform. Then we have contracts of up to EUR 6 000 that can be carried out without the normal rules being applied. I invite you to take a look at the websites of Listminut, Done is Kees and the like. There are people who already work as employees at, for example, a plumbing company or as a painter and who offer their services through those platforms. They then give up their rate for a professional service. I really have no problem with these people earning extra money through a platform, but it is a problem that they are competing with their employer and that no contributions or taxes are to be paid, whereas their employer does. The provision in the draft that employees should not compete unfairly through occasional services does not reassure us enough. In any case, it is a little bizarre that this is in it, because, according to settled case law, any competition from the employee is unfair competition, while there seems to be doubts about it here. Moreover, the public authorities must ensure that that provision is applied, but there is no provision for monitoring it. The employer seems to be expected to look into what his employees do in their private time and whether they are offering themselves somewhere as an occasional service provider. That's not the employer's job. It is the job of the government to ensure that, if it puts in place a system and considers at least that unfair competition should not be organised, it provides for the provisions to avoid it. One of the questions was whether consultations had taken place. Well, at least we have tried to provide a lot of input from the social partners. We have issued extensive opinions from the National Labour Council, the General Management Committee for the Self-employed and the High Council for Self-employed and SMEs. We have found that these opinions were delivered on a Tuesday and a Wednesday, while the government has already taken the decisions on Thursday, which incorporate all these opinions. We thought that was a short time. We hope that our questions and amendments can be examined. Perhaps there are still some things that can be recovered. I will not completely uncover the crown, but we have expressed our concerns in various ways and brought them to the attention of those responsible. We hope that this can be looked at further in your body. CD&V asked us which, in our opinion, are the most critical factors. I also refer to my PowerPoint presentation. In the case of occasional services, it is very important for us that the list can be further refined and that the necessary locks are built in. It must be an effective service of friends, and professional activities should not be included. That requires some explicit adjustments. It should also be avoided that the activity is in line with the main activity of the person concerned. In this context, the example was given of a teacher who earns extra money. Well, we do not see why that should be possible and not other things. For example, we have received emails from people who organise and invest in tutoring in a professional way, for example by opening offices and hiring people who teach tutoring. Why do these people need to be competed with by employees who earn extra money through the system of occasional services? Why should it be provided for? Why is it impossible to ask for a 10% charge on this occasional service, for example on that tutor, as in the platform system? We do not understand why that should be possible. If we can limit the system of occasional services to friendly services and also allow profitable activities via the platforms, but ask for a certain compensation in the form of a levy, then it seems to us that the system is much more balanced. As far as control and sanctions are concerned, there are indeed a number of provisions in the draft that refer to control. At least the competent authorities should be asked whether they intend to check those provisions and whether they will be able to do so. The answer will be that there are currently no plans to exercise effective control, no budget allocated and no staff available to carry out that control. They will also indicate that most of the relevant activities are carried out in the private home. It is therefore virtually impossible to effectively monitor this. That is certainly another point that needs to be taken into account. Mr Gilkinet asked whether the sharing economy system should continue to exist separately through recognised platforms. I would answer yes and no to that. It has, on the one hand, another finality for us. It's not a service of friends or association. A profitable activity is effectively pursued. For us, the 10% levy should remain. On the other hand, we agree with the increase in the ceiling to EUR 6 000, which we have also accepted. We have accepted it because we do want the various additional benefits to be put together in three pillars, as is now contained in the draft law, but even more needs to be strengthened, which was also the effective intention. If the system of approved platforms is to be completely separate, on the one hand, the occasional services can earn EUR 6 000 and earn another EUR 5 100 through the approved platform. We want to avoid that. Income must be seen over the three systems, which we demand both for the annual limit and for the monthly limit. It has also been asked whether there will be so many additional workers. The limited success of the platforms has also been highlighted. It must be borne in mind that the system is only just in existence. At first few platforms were recognized. Now, however, they are taking a flight. We have evolved from eight to twelve and finally to thirty platforms. In addition, there are still a lot of platforms to push. Not so many people will have switched to these platforms now, because that 10% charge applies there, but that will certainly happen when that tax disappears. That will lead to very peculiar consequences. We have just had a public debate on Deliveroo, in which almost everyone was outraged by the fact that the bike messengers from an employee statute go to a self-employed status. Well, if Deliveroo is registered as a recognised platform, then those bike couriers will earn EUR 6 000, and then no statute will apply. I also refer to other discussions. There is also a strong fight against social dumping in other sectors. Recently, a fair competition plan has been concluded for the carwash sector. Well, if a car wash is recognized as a digital platform, and that's perfectly possible, because there are no substantive requirements for such a platform, then this car wash can now be called social dumping if one washes one's car for 4 or 5 euros of work perfectly organized through this system. The staff will then be used as a service provider, and everything is perfectly legal. These people are then employed at dumped prices and do not have any social security status. It's all possible. And there are the concerns that we want to address. We believe that this will happen because we have already heard on several fronts from different people that they are looking at how they can organise themselves in this way. They have very specific questions, such as: what exactly should we do? How can we arrange that? We do not like to be those who cause panic, but we do see this as a real possibility. We also warn about the earning model of intermediaries in occasional services. There have already been announcements from organisations looking at how they can make a profit out of this. And that does not seem to us to be the intention at all. I think that's what I've been dealing with. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-18-54-commissie-ic784x.u35	Mr President, in reply to the question of time-credit, there is an addition to the time-credit in Articles 115 and 132, but this addition concerns the calculation of the four-fifths employment. So, as we ask, there is no explicit prohibition on cumulation with credit-time, end-of-career jobs. I confirm what Mrs Fonck said: the idea appears in the explanatory memorandum, but it is not included in the bill. Hence our request to add a specific provision. In the amendments sent to you by Caroline Deiteren, there is an amendment to add a paragraph 5 to Rule 132 to prohibit cumulation. In the same vein, a paragraph 6 could be added to article 115. For the rest, I'm not going to repeat everything that has been said by Caroline and that I share.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-18-54-commissie-ic784x.u36	Were we seeking regulation? We were seeking something at the level of the platform economy, indeed, at other levels of power, at the Economic Council of the Brussels-Capital Region. The House of Middle Classes has indeed given an opinion on the platform economy, so I will refer you to this opinion. With regard to the question of penalties and controls, I agree with what Mrs Deiteren has just said, that is to say, the idea that controls will be very difficult to carry out. On the other hand, the idea of sanction which is to say that being treated as any independent is a sanction, I represent it quite badly! As far as flexi-jobs are concerned, I must note that in the Walloon part of the country the success of flexi-jobs is relatively mixed. We are studying with our members whether the extension of flexi-jobs is a good thing. I will not fail to share with you the results of this study. In any case, for the moment flexi-jobs have a mixed performance and result.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-18-54-commissie-ic784x.u37	You're against it?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-18-54-commissie-ic784x.u38	We are studying the matter for the time being.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-18-54-commissie-ic784x.u39	Is the UCM against it?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-18-54-commissie-ic784x.u40	We are studying the matter. [[(...): (...)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-18-54-commissie-ic784x.u41	I'm asking a question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-18-54-commissie-ic784x.u42	On the idea of a springboard to the independent activity of the three systems, as much as we can possibly share the idea that the platform economy can be a springboard because there is an economic model behind, as for the other two, in our view, what is behind is above all "black" work and so that there is in there a springboard towards independent activity, it is a decoy! Finally, for the idea that it is absolutely necessary to go towards disruption and to be innovative – I am not opposed to the idea of being innovative and to go towards disruption – it is still necessary to calculate the price of it. And if all this is done at the sacrifice of our middle classes, it is obviously far too high!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-18-54-commissie-ic784x.u43	I'll try to be very brief. Firstly, Mr Vercamer and Mrs Fonck have both asked whether there has been enough consultation with the sectors and whether homework should not be improved and introduced gradually. The answer to that last question is quite clear. There has been little consultation with the sectors, but it is good to hear various sectors in this respect. Secondly, I have heard several times here the question of occasional. On occasion, tax is indeed seen as a diverse income, which is absolutely correct, but we cannot get rid of the impression that the same activity has a professional character in one and an occasional character in another, i.e. various revenues. Here this is limited only to EUR 6 000 on an annual basis. It is a little strange that, even if it is about the same activity, this is seen as a professional income if you are above EUR 6 000 in various income. We have to be honest in this: occasionally the draft law has been defined as being above or below EUR 6 000. This includes occasional activities, above which professional activities. That's a weird definition. Mr Vercamer has rightly raised certain technical points and critical points. I heard that and that, are we there? I'm going to translate freely. Almost, I'd say. I have not heard the most important thing, namely how are we going to ensure that small self-employed people are not exposed to unfair competition? Forelast point, the flexi jobs. I have to pay attention after the intervention earlier, but it is quite clear that flexi-jobs are intended to help small self-employed people in the catering industry, and soon retailers, to carry out the activity they do. Here it is just the opposite: extra earning ensures that the sandwich is taken away from the self-employed. That's a totally different approach. The comparison with flexi-jobs does not apply to our organization at all. I find the comparison dumping social intrabelge a very nice summary of the bill. To answer Mrs Fonck's questions, as far as the self-employed are concerned, I think you have done your job very well. I am based on official figures and always on tranches: from 0 to 2,500 euros per year, from 2,500 to 5,000 euros per year. I have to limit myself to those slices, because otherwise we would go up to 7,500 euros a year. If I limit myself to EUR 5 000, 81% of the additional self-employed who had less than EUR 5 000 per year in 2016. 81 per cent of the self-employed in the secondary sector therefore has less than EUR 5 000. Unfortunately, I cannot go up to EUR 6 000, and I apologize for that. Madam, I think you are not wrong if you say that probably 90% of those involved – I say "probably", but in my opinion it is correct – receive less than 6,000 euros.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-18-54-commissie-ic784x.u44	Thank you, Mr President, for the questions and the attentive listeners here in the Chamber. I sincerely hope that if you hold the debate among yourselves tomorrow, what is said today will be taken into account, that it will be debated and that it will also be taken into account in the final regulation. When I'm in consultation situations and I use the word "I'm going to take it" myself, the question is usually asked: what do you do with it? However, I have great confidence that you will certainly take our input into account here. A lot of things have been said. Mr Vercamer, on the one hand, and Mrs Fonck, on the other hand, tried to make the summary of our desiderata: we are not opposed in fine; we want to lead the way, Mr President. However, taking the lead also means looking ahead to any consequences. So when we talk about disruption in this society, this means that we have to draw the picture in the medium and long term as far as polarisation is concerned, which is already going on between those who have it and those who have it very difficult. Our question is as follows. If we are to achieve a genuinely additional thing, we must indeed take the time to conduct the consultation not only interprofessionally but also sectorally, in which we can give about quality, about input, about impact effectively. That is not just to buy time, that is to make the work fundamental, in which, as partners with politics, one can actually indicate that one can work securely within certain limits. I also said it earlier. We need a more sophisticated list of activities, in which we determine what complementarity means, certainly in consultation with the Regions and the Communities. Mrs Fonck, what reading do we have of the impact of the rules on the regions and communities today? I do not agree with the President's reading. I have said that it is clear about activity 16 around residential care centres and disability facilities, there is little or no discussion about this. When one descends to the babysitter and night-sitter... yes, it doesn't say that. It merely states that reference is made to the criteria of the Communities, but there it is actually stipulated that this applies only to the professional activities, not to the occasional ones. I mean, if the President is right, and I sincerely hope so, then it should also be very clear. However, I also said earlier in the debate: if we then come to activities 8 and 11, where we are talking about childcare and the supervision of school children, we will not even find any safety or quality criteria that should apply. Again, if our reading is wrong, make it clear, so that ordinary people like us can understand it. If, in practice, it can be developed as easily as the President indicates, then there is indeed a restriction and consultation. I would therefore like to see it dealt with very explicitly in this way. Mr President, I would like to return to one of your remarks. I don't do politics. We also want to lead the way and be innovative. You just talked about the thirty thousand flexi jobs. Are they part of the jobs, jobs, jobs? Is it about doing everything we can for people who are already active today? Although I know it cannot only be approached mathematically, you should add the hours taken by those thirty thousand flexi-jobs. That number of working hours is being withheld from people who are not getting to work today. I would very much like us to develop a policy at federal and regional level, with your enthusiasm for this regulation, in which we give people every opportunity, not only with a stick behind people, but also with a root for them. That means investing in people to be able to do things. For strong individuals this is not a problem, but for those who have less competence than the average in this room, that is an immense challenge. However, these people are waiting for good guidance. Now we see those jobs being taken away. We do not think that is the right direction. It's a total evolution, but I think the bigger picture is missing. In my introduction, I have already mentioned the impact on tax revenue and social security inspection. Well, those consequences are predictable. Do we not believe that giving people opportunities can be a stepping stone to becoming self-employed? Of course I do. However, I believe that the vocational training system offers every opportunity. For some people it is a choice, an opportunity; that is good and we can encourage it. However, I know that staff from many companies and institutions are usually engaged in secondary activities in companies and institutions where more than average pay is paid. Those people will take it for granted. They will probably choose a four-fifth job in the future, giving them not only a guaranteed income, but also a social status, and then gibberish along with it. Somewhat reproachful you speak of the matthew effect, which you do not believe too much about, but we see it today. We also see today that people are within certain limits. Why are there limits? Not because this is covered by tax or social law? The limits are in the limit, as you indicate. When I work full-time, I have to perform certain things. With all the private activities and the extras, this means a lot of pressure that people impose on themselves. Of course, there is already a lot of pressure that employers impose on their employees. I would like to conclude with a positive note. I said earlier that from the system and a number of needs in the field, for example, sport and cultural activities, we must start and learn lessons from them. Then we have to take the time to consult with the sectors, and then we can better define the opportunities and see them better. In this way, we can proceed gradually. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-18-54-commissie-ic784x.u45	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you for your attention, your interest and your questions. We were not in fact so demanding, but if this can meet a number of concerns, we are not "closed" on the issue, as Matthieu Dewèvre said. It is, in my view, possible to implement things gradually. We have been consulted at the level of the National Labour Council. We were still looking at this together, at the end of October, at the level of the official referral. Therefore, the consultation took place on a very complex subject over a relatively short period of time. You realize, since you have just received all the documents, which it is relatively difficult to analyze, to look at, to have time to do substantive work over such short periods. To answer Mr Vercamer's question as to whether it is enough to define casual work and to provide that the activity cannot be carried out in the extension of the normal professional activity in relation to the qualification, I would say that these are certainly important elements, but it is certainly not sufficient either to consider that all the elements could be met and that this would suffice to consider that the question was resolved. We obviously have a lot of questions about the protection of people, unfair competition, the risks to people and the destruction of sectors that are already active in a number of areas. I've been talking about service titles, but that's not the only area. It is therefore important to carry out this sectoral analysis, if we want to go further than the sporting element. [[I heard the committee chair's plea on this bill to move forward, to move forward.]] This is a conviction, but it does not seem to me to be a demonstration to the extent that, here, we are facing a bill that is, in a way, comparable to an elephant in a porcelain store, which risks destroying a number of things, operations, labour relations, balances that exist in a number of structures. I therefore believe that there is a time for action, there is a time for progress, there is a time for prudence, a time for reflection and a time for listening. Our wish is that we do not play the sorcerer apprentice on these issues and that we do not take the risk. And I believe that the message sent by civil society in its very broad composition is that we must not play with fire, that it is something very dangerous. This does not mean that we are completely "closed" to the fact that we are moving forward in this area. But let's move on. I will keep in mind the proposals made by some of the Members of Parliament, Mrs Fonck and Mr Gilkinet, among others, to have the time to analyse at sectoral level and to be able to move progressively together with the social partners to respond to requests for analysis in relation to possible further implementation.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-18-54-commissie-ic784x.u46	Mr President, I obviously agree with what has been said by my colleagues. As far as the platform economy is concerned, it seems clear to me that we certainly need a global reflection on this type of economy, which must also take some time. It's a moving phenomenon, difficult to grasp, constantly moving. The platform economy derives its benefits and is in unfair competition with workers, also because there is a deregulation of this system. We must necessarily look at it. But in relation to the proposed project, I think Caroline Deiteren has explained the reasons why we believe that there is a need for further regulation in existing legislation. This project puts a mark on the economy of a recognised platform, maintaining the previous provisions – the 10% tax, initially on an amount of 5,100 euros but which, in the CNT's debates, could be increased to 6,000 euros. The monthly income limitation applicable to voluntary work and to citizens' to citizens' benefits, which amounts to EUR 500, must also apply to the income of collaborative platforms. As I have already said, the web application which allows us to check whether we reach the threshold of EUR 6 000 for the three pillars must also concern this third pillar, therefore the revenues of the recognised platforms. I do not think we can claim, as I have heard, that the current control of recognised platforms would be effective control. In any case, it was not at all in this sense that the inspection services, which were heard at the NTC, gave their opinion. They said that they do not yet have an overview of the operation and management of platform mechanisms, given the lack of transparency and the speed with which they innovate and flood us. They said that they responded only on the basis of individual complaints, which rarely intervene. They also added that the existing system with the ex post tax slips was not very efficient and they wanted a system that was efficient in time and time. They explained that their requests for information to the platforms were generally rejected or, if not, they received a response that due to the connectivity structure, the requested data were not available. I think that, on the control of the platform economy and even approved platforms, there is a need for reflection. Our request to implement this web application, also for the revenues of the collaborative economy, is well-founded in the light of the opinions of these field experts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-18-54-commissie-ic784x.u47	In response to Mr Gilkinet's question as to whether it was a request or a need, the High Council of Volunteers asked for it for associative work, but for the rest, we cannot say. In the context of associative work, we asked what we call "semi-agoral". I use the first person of the plural because the platform participated as an expert in the Higher Council of Volunteers by which it was invited. Yes, this was a request because, in fact, the finding had been made of borrowing volunteer status when it should not have been. People used lump sum payment to pay some people. Let us be honest: the unfortunate statements made by a Secretary of State assimilating voluntary work to work in the dark have done a great deal of harm to volunteering! We thought that it was wrong, that there was a problem and that it was time to distinguish those people who use volunteer status by giving them their own status. It was a request. The CSV had proposed a whole series of beacons to be sure, to have safeguards, to ensure that the distinction between volunteering and this "semi-agoral" status was clear, and also to ensure that regular employment, which was extremely important in the association, was not similarly weakened. The High Council of Volunteers (CSV) delivered an opinion. On the basis of this, a project came out and the CSV, like the CNT and, I imagine, the Council of State, was asked, at the end of October, to hurry to look at what was happening. Fortunately, the CSV had "nearly" only associative work to look at, since it was really that which directly concerned the issue of volunteering. Mr Van Quickenborne, I hear you say that this is not a threat. I'm gonna be honest. I think there will always be volunteers and fortunately! Now, the question is, we need a clear distinction. She's got to be here. As I have already explained, if the distinction is not there, if it is not sufficiently clear and if, in the end, it is enough to choose the most advantageous status,... Finally, this law of 2005 which was intended to value and highlight these volunteers becomes obsolete for a whole series of people included in a list. There's really some intriguing stuff in this list. First, yes, it's limited. It can be said that there are only seventeen possibilities. Nevertheless, they are so wide and vague, sometimes, that you can bring in lots of other things. Only point 1, for example, is already challenging, we see that it is "facilitators, conductors or coordinators who provide sports initiation and/or sports activities or a person who is active in youth movements and/or playgrounds". A person active in youth movements, imagine all the animators of chiro, patros, gidsen, scouts,... Tomorrow, the young man will come and say: "Well what? The standard is to be paid. No? That's normal. Can we get paid for that? Why am I not paid for this?" Tomorrow, youth movements will find themselves having to tell the children that there is a small participation of as many euros per person because they have to pay well because, for them, it has become the norm. That's the problem. It's when you mix and there's no clear distinction anymore. At one point, what it was obvious to have to do in an act of solidarity, of social cohesion, all of a sudden, is no longer so obvious at all. Merchandise, the fee-paying act becomes the norm again. It is therefore important to put a clear line between the two. You can't say, "What's the most advantageous?" But it must be said: "In one case, it is an act of real solidarity and in the other one is remunerated. Okay, it's an act or a commitment to society but it's still paid for the time invested and it makes a big difference. As a result, this list is thought to be important for the sectors to be consulted. From the echoes I have had at the level of the Francophone Volunteer Platform, sport seems to be more or less satisfied with the functions included in this list, but there are many other sectors that are being taken up, including youth or parents' committees, and that do not understand why they are there. They never asked. We don't know how this list was made and I don't think the High Council of Volunteers is more aware of how it was done. I won't come forward for him. I think this consultation and this list... we say "culture," but culture is still broad. Yes, the amateur arts, but the rest of the culture, lifelong education or others are not in there and they didn't ask for it. It's really very challenging. Yes, there was a demand from the sports sector, let's not hide anything. Maybe one or the other like amateur arts but for the rest, they didn't ask. It would therefore be worth consulting on this list.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-18-54-commissie-ic784x.u48	I won't repeat everything. The consultation with Unizo was about the draft bill that fell into the letterbox of the National Labour Council. We had 30 days to discuss it. There has certainly been no consultation with the sectors concerned, such as the residential care sector, the disabled sector and so on. Just now, what's the critical point was wiped out. In fact, negotiations are already under way, but I would like to comment on that. For us, critically, it is first and foremost the need for clarity about quality. Point 16 of Article 115, which deals with associations, states that 'compliance with quality requirements'. And people go on: for residential care centres and disability care. Then it says: 'Childcare in accordance with the conditions and quality criteria laid down by each Community'. It seems, therefore, that only quality criteria are mentioned in point 16. It's not about safety or well-being. That's how I interpret it. Maybe I'm wrong, but that's how I interpret it. It is not about safety, not about recognition, not about training and so on. Because it is clearly described differently, it seems that it means something else. We are therefore afraid that we will only talk about quality requirements there, not about deontology and everything I have mentioned. In addition, in the case of occasional services, point 1: 'compliance with Community law' is said. However, in point 2, it is said that 'compliance with the rules on quality requirements'. Here again, I have the impression that point 2 in relation to persons in need of care gives a totally different interpretation of the standards, and I think it gives a lighter interpretation of them than in point 1. Am I wrong? I'd love to. I'd like to see it wrong. Then say it, and adjust the text, so it's clear to everyone. So much for quality. There is also legal certainty for everyone, but in particular for social profit companies. It is said that there is still an app to be created. It is said that there is still a need to specify exactly what the welfare scheme means. It is also said that we will introduce control later. In fact, I see here as the only sanction, and I hope that I have also misread it, that it is only possible to be punished if the amount of EUR 6 000 is exceeded. For the rest, I see no sanction, let alone a control option. The app is not yet available; the welfare rules have not been defined; the control is not yet in place. We are talking about civil liability insurance. Are the insurance companies ready for that? Is that insurance gonna be here soon? We must look at two points first: firstly, the quality requirements you have listed and, secondly, the legal certainty of those involved, which must be there before such a law comes into force. Just now, quoting my name, I was asked how I would solve the ageing of the population. That's the $1 million question, and I mean $1 million bitcoins. As an employer's organisation and a social benefit employer, I would point out that the problem of ageing will not be solved by calling only "not in my generation'. We will need all the innovation, all the creativity and everything that can be used. After all, it is a problem that comes to our attention. However, this automatically makes the leap that the measure is the right solution, is a bit short and a bridge is too far. By the way, for every lame joke one has to put a euro in a jar during the Warmest Week. I can call in a few more. However, making that leap goes a little too fast. Do we really want to see unskilled elderly people helping the elderly? I am afraid of that, especially when I see the situation in some southern countries. We see the opportunities. Social partners with their bad character, which everyone will agree, see a terrifying number of opportunities. There are so many opportunities. That is precisely the great fear of many here. Opportunities please, but there is still a need to specify and redefined. Otherwise, we are a little too afraid of the opportunities. For example, isn't the measure a low wage drop? Doesn't she stimulate the four-fifths? After all, all the other benefits, such as scholarships and social rates, will not take into account the income from that system. After all, it is explicitly stated that it is not a question of pay. So unless the rules in the Communities and the Regions are amended, these revenues will not count for scholarships and that is more. In that case, it will be immensely nice to go from five-fifths to four-fifths, firstly, to earn a lot of money directly without taxes or social security and, secondly, indirectly to be able to take all these things into account in the benefits that we will pay to that group of people.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-18-54-commissie-ic784x.u49	We were indeed applicants, and we were somewhat at the origin of the idea. On the other hand, at the level of volunteerism, we are currently afraid that the current project will cause much confusion. Moreover, the examples that have been given, as teachers, instructors and coaches, are also functions carried out, within associations, by volunteers. There is no clear functional boundary in the NSAs. I am thinking, for example, of EneoSport, the federation of sports for seniors, which has volunteer sports coaches, and which does not intend to have others. Moreover, it does not have the means to do so, since it aims at a contribution which is almost free of charge for its members. I am thinking of homework schools that use teachers, also volunteers, for this type of population. In fact, this would be a problem if, in the course of the clarifications envisaged, it was said, for example, that in the case of associative work there could not be an extension of the profession. This would mean, for example, that a treasurer administrator of an association could not be a professional accountant, which is a nonsense, since people with qualifications are being sought to manage associative structures properly. There is a real need for attention to be focused on the definitions and boundaries that we want to establish. The world of volunteering, represented by the High Council of Volunteers, wanted to respond only to a few specific situations, framed within the sectors, through an agreement with the Joint Committee, to clarify matters. She wanted to do so in such a way that it was obvious to everyone, both for the person, for the association, for its leaders - because it would have to question the directors' responsibility - and for the public. We also wanted to be able to respond to the problems raised by the administration. I recall that this was done in the context of the evaluation of the legislation, during which we met with the administration, the social inspection and the tax inspection. It was by trying to address their concerns that we imagined this system. For example, for casual work, it is not just voluntary work, because it could also be done in the case of assistance to neighbours. What is it? We're told that's what's going to fix the difference. Yeah, but let's assume I'm mowing the lawn six times a year at my neighbor's house or shopping every week. Is it occasional or regular? It is not so obvious to develop very broad definitions in this area. In the Council, we also see a risk of relaxation of the control rules for paid voluntary work, while administrative harassment is maintained for volunteers who work gracefully, since the draft reform of the voluntary act has not advanced. We are afraid that, as soon as the computerised and light smartphone-based declaration for associative work is put in place, the social and fiscal inspectors will ask that there be also a Dimona for volunteers. In fact, when you land on the ground and you have a salaried worker, two self-employed, a social Maribel, two ACS, an APE, an associative worker and people who declare themselves to be volunteers, you should still see clearly. However, the Dimona for volunteering will pose other problems, as there may be questions of personal secrecy about its ideological, political and other affiliations. We hope that the demand made by the world of volunteerism will not be associated with the encounter of other problematic mechanisms, because otherwise the borders will become very blurred and permeable. At the same time, I would like to say that volunteers work for the good of society. They usually dedicate themselves to a societal goal, devote time, sometimes finance. The provisions of the Act of 2005 simply provided that, for those who spend their volunteer work, reimbursements of costs, including lump-sum costs, should be clearly deflated. But if tomorrow a whole series of other works are also challenged, the administrators of the associations who sometimes and often seek support from the public authorities to finance the projects will eventually wonder where we will be able to find the money to finance the projects. Professionally, I am also the political secretary of Eneo, the social movement of seniors. You were asking earlier, Mr Vercamer, what to do to meet the demographic problem. It also means keeping public resources to pay for pensions, services and care.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-18-54-commissie-ic784x.u50	Are there any people who would like to speak? [[No, no, ……]] I think we have had an interesting debate. Questions and answers were exchanged. There's a lot to be taken to tomorrow. I often hear this in local politics. I always say "in the suitcase" in the hope that that suitcase will ever be opened. By the way, taking it is wrong Dutch. Just say that it will or will not be taken into account. We have also learned a lot about the views of different organisations. We look forward to a very interesting debate tomorrow. The debate will start at 11:00. Tomorrow morning at 9:30, there will be a nuclear cabinet on the pharmaceutical sector. We start with the section of Kris Peeters, the second reading of the various provisions. Following the article-by-article discussion with Deputy Prime Minister Peeters. At 11:00 we start and then we go to Mrs. De Block's hatch. Tomorrow a relaxing morning to then fly in at 11:00. At least I'm looking forward to it. Thank you for coming and goodbye!
