ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic770x.u1	Let me briefly recall the rule: I will give the floor to the authors of the questions attached for two minutes, after which the floor may be requested by one speaker per political group, either in the follow-up to questions or at the time of the replies, always with a speaking time of two minutes.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic770x.u2	Mr President, I tabled a question very early this morning and I am surprised that it was not attached to the other questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic770x.u3	I was told that the question was actually tabled this morning very early, but that it should have been tabled yesterday by 11 a.m. to be taken into consideration. It's an inviolable rule.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic770x.u4	I think that is rather the exception to the rule since in all committees there is a custom that, when there are a series of questions and the question is attached to them, the question is admitted, even if it is tabled that morning. This is the case in all committees except in the Committee on the Interior.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic770x.u5	The Committee on the Interior is a very strict and rigorous committee which will still allow you to put your question either in the follow-up to questions or in reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic770x.u6	Mr President, I regret that the Committee on the Interior is using this method and I will refer this problem to the Conference of Presidents.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic770x.u7	I take note of that, Mr. Dallemagne.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic770x.u8	Mr Minister, the last plenary session has already given me the opportunity to question you about these serious incidents on Saturday 11 November in Brussels and to condemn them on behalf of my group. You've been asked for the General Inspection report. You promised to claim it. We received it on Monday night. But for your part, you received it on Friday and then held a press conference without consulting the heads of bodies or the college of the city of Brussels. It's strange. To launch parts of the report without consulting the first persons concerned does not seem to us to be responsible. That's not how we deal with incidents of such gravity. You just put oil on the fire and point people's fingers. As a result, during the whole weekend, everyone turned their attention to the fault. The city of Brussels incriminates the federal; for your part, you point the finger at the authorities and the organisation of the Brussels police. This is not up to the challenge of the security of Brusselsers and Brusselsers, and more broadly, of the security policy of all the citizens of this country. We regret this type of escalation. I read the report in detail. Deficiencies are noted at several levels: at the federal level as well as at the level of the organisation of the Brussels-Ixelles police zone. Thus, the report states that the federal reserve is not sufficient even if it was on site at 7:40 p.m. What measures will be taken to strengthen this federal reserve, to meet the demands of local police areas in case of problems? My second question concerns the information position. It is clear from the report that the police zone was not prepared, as it had not received any information about the football match Côte d'Ivoire-Morocco on Saturday night. However, everyone was aware of it; it was enough to navigate the Internet to be informed. Was this event on federal police radars? In which case, she could have told the local police. It is truly surprising that no one has thought about developing a device for this purpose. On many occasions, the report notes this impreparation as a result of ignorance of information. The report also mentions the absence of an emergency plan of action in the event of riots. By definition, however, this phenomenon is spontaneous. Has the Inland FPS developed guidelines for the federal police? How do other police areas sensitive to potential riots organize such contingency plans? The findings of the report identify this problem as one of the main shortcomings. Secondly, it is reported that the equipment in the police zone was not sufficiently resistant to the projectiles sent to the police. What are you planning to strengthen it, not only at the local level, but also in terms of the support of the federal police? I will ask you the same question about monitoring social networks – a fundamental aspect. It's true for Saturday night events, but maybe even more so for Wednesday night events. The report points out that there is no systematic monitoring of social networks. The inspectors responsible for drafting the document, however, object to a lack of capacity to act – in terms of both infrastructure and IT and human resources. Therefore, what measures do you intend to take in partnership with the Brussels-Ixelles police zone to remedy this situation and to offer equipment capable of ensuring professional monitoring of social networks? We are well aware that many demonstrations – including spontaneous ones – are organized through this. It is therefore essential that you provide answers with respect to investments. Finally, the report indicates that the police did not intervene to prevent acts of vandalism and looting of certain shops, particularly on the Lemonnier side. Are there more explanations today? In the report, this remains a question mark. The inspectors themselves are asking questions. Why did not plainclothes policemen from the neighbouring Midi zone and police officers present on the spot intervene? Is this an order received, not to prevent looting? I would like more clarification. The report highlights the fact that the police officers in the field had done their job properly. It is not a question of pointing the finger at either member of the police force, but of examining things in terms of structural organization, at the federal and local levels, so that this type of serious incident never happens again.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic770x.u9	Mr President, Mr Vice-Prime Minister, as a born Brusselser, I must say that the incidents that have taken place in Brussels recently cannot be tolerated. In other words, the inhabitants are currently very concerned that such incidents will continue to occur in the future. You were right to come forward very quickly with a report which points out the errors that you believe have occurred in the way police units operate. But instead of always thinking in terms of structures, what politicians often do, and falling into lengthy discussions about a single future police area or the desirability of another level taking over the tasks, I would like to ask you the following question that concerns the citizens and the middle class of our capital: how will you manage to maintain order in Brussels in the short term? Please do not allow us to fall into lengthy discussions on which structures are the best. Let us act today and give certainty to the citizens and to the small and medium-sized businesses that they can work and thrive in Brussels. .
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic770x.u10	Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, as we have said, the events of 11 and 15 November are unacceptable. Breakers, both minors and adults, destroyed free of charge. It is a deplorable image for the centre of Brussels. This centre, made up of many traders and independents and which welcomes the winter pleasures in this period, is obviously an engine for the Brussels Region. This centre in Brussels was trapped. I will not go back to the details already taken up by my colleagues. If the causes are to be found, it is first and foremost necessary to act without delay. This was done by the Government's early decision to conduct an analysis at the General Inspectorate of the Police and by deciding on a plan of action with local and police authorities. Beware of the simplistic answers: it seems essential to keep your cool! To do this, we must distinguish the political dimension from the police dimension from the problem. As far as political solutions are concerned, a clear line has been drawn up by the federal government as early as Thursday, 16 November. The Prime Minister recalled that there could be no room for laxity and that such events were unacceptable, ensuring zero tolerance at both the police and judicial levels. With regard to the concrete measures, the Ministers of Justice and the Interior were responsible for drawing up an action plan in consultation with the local authorities. Minister, will this plan focus not only on the suppression of such events, but also on how to prevent them? On behalf of my group, I say that it is necessary. We also welcome the fact that a circular will be approved in the coming days in order to achieve zero tolerance in cases of violence against law enforcement officials. It's a necessity. I also underline the speed with which the government has decided to inform traders, who have been severely affected, about the measures taken to support them, such as the franchise that will be taken over by the state. More specifically, with regard to the police dimension of the problem, you have had the opportunity to comment on the report of the General Inspectorate of the Police. We take note of your comments. There is room for an improvement in the police information position. My question is simple: Was there really no warning sign? In the plenary session last week, my colleague Philippe Pivin pointed to the role of social networks in mobilizing. An Internet watch seems to us to be essential to anticipate and avoid such overflows. Such a watch exists at the Federal Computer Crime Unit. There is obviously a need to strengthen this aspect at the level of the police services. I will conclude, minister, by saying that you have mentioned a command structure that would not allow for a comprehensive view of the situation and a lack of police capacity. What about the cavalry platoon and the announced shortage of 400 policemen? In this regard, is a merger of police areas really the solution? In our view, anything that strengthens the coordination of the police services and, perhaps, a centralized command can of course be discussed, but on the basis of objectivation, independent, clear and precise expertise, and not on the basis of blunders or political obsessions. Indeed, we can see the very many times in a year when cooperation between the police services is going very well. We've got to report it. On the other hand, should it be recalled that a merger is not synonymous with an increase either? Fewer areas do not automatically mean an increase in capacity. Minister, there is obviously a need for consultation. As soon as this morning, the Conference of Brussels Mayors communicated that it wished to hear from all the heads of corps of the six police zones next Wednesday and that, in the wake of that, it obviously wanted to hear from the Minister of Justice and yourself in order to be able to consider a number of ways of improving security in Brussels. I would of course also have liked to hear from you on this last issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic770x.u11	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the context has now been established. I agree with what my colleague Van Biesen has already said. We also had the debate in plenary last Thursday. You have indeed responded quickly by requesting the report from the AIG. In the meantime, the report has also been forwarded to Members of Parliament. In this context, I have five brief questions for you. According to the Brussels Police District Capital of Ixelles, the area where these incidents have taken place in recent weeks is a problematic area, where the finger-to-the-pole policy does not really work and where the police have little or no contact with the population and therefore has little information. In the past, the P Committee stated that there are no-go zones in our capital with which the police have little or no contact. Can you confirm that? Can you give a list of those zones? What measures do you intend to take to restore this contact in the future so that we can resolve the current problems? On Thursday, I asked about the screening of social media and the Internet, an important fact in this society and also important in order to be able to act quickly. How do you intend to achieve this in practice in order to ensure proper screening of social media messages? You confirmed on Thursday that the federal reserve was indeed present and was able to intervene. That reinforcement was collected at the Brouckère Square, but was not deployed. The question today is again whether you can say why this did not happen and what the difference would have been if the reinforcement had been deployed? As my colleague has just said, the police have apparently never considered exorcising, not even when the business was being plundered and it involved serious vandalism and even arson. That's very disturbing, isn't it? Can you explain why the federal reserve was not addressed and why appropriate action was not taken at the time? Finally, I would like to have an overview of the various arrests that would have taken place in the meantime. We do read reports in the media, but I would like to hear from you, as you yourself said, there was no intervention on the evening itself and no arrest was made because of a lack of capacity. Meanwhile, they would have made arrests on the basis of camera footage. Can you give us an update on the follow-up that we can expect from the Justice Department?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic770x.u12	Minister, we are pleased that you have quickly taken action and asked for a report. That report has already given some clarity. The conclusions of the AIG report speak for themselves. However, the organisation of the Brussels police in the field of information flow, information position and capacity in the event of unexpected events is lacking. There are also problems in dealing with new threats and challenges, based on youth subcultures that somehow communicate and find each other in a short time. My group and I find the reaction of the Brussels mayor incomprehensible. Of course, this view does not criticise the individual performance of the police. I would like to underline this, because those people have had to work with the resources they were given and according to the way they had to do it. However, we cannot ignore the facts. I'll come back on the night of November 11th. A denial means a denial of sunlight. There is a lot of knowledge of this in Brussels. "This isn't a pipe." According to the mayor of Brussels, this will be: "Ceci n'est pas un problème." One cannot cure a disease if one does not first recognize the problems. The two major problems that arise here do not date today. The first problem, the poor information position, is not specific to the Brussels police. It's a big police organization problem. In the report, the Brussels police say that they are unable to monitor all kinds of cases. I think she's right about that. It is a fairly comprehensive problem, but it would be helpful if one could be able to pick up the signals coming from different Brussels districts. However, the report states that the finger-to-the-pole policy in these neighbourhoods is not working. The problems in these areas are not being dealt with. Apart from that, we believe that the police as a whole should make greater efforts in a modern way of communicating, especially with regard to certain youth subcultures. The phenomenon of the bloggers needs to be better mapped out. The information collected in this way should be better shared within all police forces. When I read the report in question and read the report of the Committee of Inquiry, I noticed that they said the same thing. We read the same conclusion about better data sharing. However, I also know and realise that this is a huge challenge facing our security services. My first question to you is as follows. What initiatives will you take so that we can finally ensure that data and information can be shared in a better way? Have you already put your ear to listen to it abroad? Are there instruments for this abroad? The second problem that arises is the demand for resources. I have already said in plenary that this is a simplistic question, if I may put it that way. Every time there's a problem, that demand for resources comes up. When I looked at the figures, however, I have been studying the matter over the past few days, and I came up with strange figures. In terms of funding, there is a very large difference between, for example, the Brussels Capital of Ixelles and other police areas in the region. Know that a structural sum of EUR 128 985 000 is given to the Brussels police areas, which is not nothing! Moreover, the Brussels Capital city of Ixelles receives a further EUR 25 million for the European Summit Fund. The sixth state reform also gave the Region a further EUR 30 million. The Road Safety Fund also provided a further EUR 15.4 million. This means that the federal government invests a total of 199 million euros in Brussels security. When I calculate that amount per inhabitant, I amount to EUR 237 per inhabitant for the Brussels Metropolitan City of Ixelles. I would like to add a few other cities which also have security problems, but which nevertheless show that it can be done with less resources, to show that the Brussels Capital of Ixelles area has absolutely no shortage of resources. For example, in the Mechelen-Willebroek zone it is 77 euros per inhabitant. Mr Bonte, I am sure you will not blame me for finding that you have to do it with EUR 68 per inhabitant. When I read that it is said in Brussels that EUR 237 per inhabitant is insufficient, I have my questions. I have some specific questions to which I did not find any answers in the report. First of all, how many emergency calls did the 101 plant get? Secondly, how much time has elapsed between the first emergency call and the deployment of police forces? Thirdly, how many operational police officers in the local force were at their disposal? I read that it was about a platoon, but what exactly does that mean? Fourthly, should the department of the specific zone be in charge when riots occur? Or is this scaled up to a higher level, namely the DirCo? Fifth, we do not want to get manu militari into a police zone. As far as we are concerned, this unified zone will be there as soon as possible, but can there be an interim solution whereby the management of the Region takes the lead in riots? In this way a solution can be found in the short term. Sixth, how many agents were available from the federal reserve? Finally, in the light of the future World Cup, I think it is important to avoid such incidents. Will you take specific steps in this respect?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic770x.u13	Mr President, Minister, my question is again about the riots in Brussels on 11 November and the report by the AIG which has revealed a number of problems and structural problems. The first problem is that the police did not have specific information about the football match and its possible impact on Brussels. What does the report say, however? Even if they had known, it would not have changed the means employed. That is very important because it points out that there is no anticipation of unexpected events, especially in our capital city. In this way, the rapid and adequate deployment of law and order services would have been more possible. A plan of action drawn up by local police authorities is indispensable in such circumstances. This is where those responsible failed. A second pain that is cited is the lack of resources. The police zone has only one platoon available for the planned events. I believe a platoon is made up of 45 men, Mr Demon. That is what we had at our disposal, nothing more. A number of other Brussels areas sent reinforcements from 10 p.m. on. Antwerp has also sent two sections. However, after 10 p.m. there were men present from the neighboring zones. So that's what the stakes are about. However, if the result is that more resources are needed, that more agents have to come to Brussels and so on, I do not agree with that. I do not think it is the right solution to ask for more resources every time there are problems. By the way, those areas are free to recruit themselves. Although, as I said, they had people at their disposal, who were deployed too late, I would point out that the Brussels police zones do not score good points when it comes to delivering HyCap in other situations. That can be said at some point. The third and final pain point I want to quote is the lead, the command. The Chief Constable knew about the mayor that there was a football match. That hasn't led to any reflexes, no proclamation. No risk assessment was made either. No capacity was therefore put in place. Maybe the officer was at home on guard duty. But, when the riots are in full swing, this is the worst point... there appears to be no unity of command. As a result, help was refused to people in need. These people in need were simply left to their fate. There were even mattresses set on fire in a furniture store, while families with children slept above that store. Such situations, they cannot be, knowing that a few blocks away agents from another zone were set up. This, of course, raises the problem of the merger of the six police zones. We know that on the Flemish side there is much more enthusiasm for it than on the French-speaking side. The question that some people are asking is whether this should not be imposed unilaterally. We are pragmatic enough to know that a unilateral imposition will not lead to a solution on the ground: any solution must be supported. However, the discourse must be conducted differently from now on. I heard that even if there had been a merger, the riots would have occurred. No discourse should be conducted that easily. Anyone who is not in favour of a merger should simply list its disadvantages. It is only in this way that constructive dialogue will be established. As Mr Calomne says, that is something other than conducting the discourse from a political obsession. That is the path we must take as far as the debate on the merger is concerned. Minister, you announced in plenary that you would be sitting at the table with the authorities concerned. I assume that this has not yet happened and that you await the AIG's report first. What will you tell the local authorities? What support measures and guidelines will you communicate or impose, with the primary aim of maintaining public order as quickly as possible?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic770x.u14	Minister, last week I was unable to be present in plenary. It was a coincidence that I took part in a European initiative on urban security in Barcelona. When I got there, the discussion began about the riots in Brussels on Saturday. On Wednesday, during the debate, it became clear that there had been another riot in our capital on Wednesday afternoon. That was kind of embarrassing. Having said that, the report again shows that I am sorry to say that a whole series of illustrations of the inefficient functioning of the security services in our capital city, and I would like to express myself with caution. Indeed, it is true that the report states that the Mayor of Brussels will inform his corps of a football match important for Morocco in the afternoon at a reception. This doesn't evoke any reflexes in the police department. Minister, if I am correct, we are still below terrorist threat level 3. In doing so, the greatest precautions must be taken, as soon as there is a risk of cooperation. In the present case, the local integrated security cell should have come together to bridge the information gap. There is clearly an information gap between what concerns citizens and what concerns the police. After all, I cannot imagine that Brussels street corner workers and youth services or other services would not have been aware of that essential football match. The mayor reports that football match during a press reception, but that is not discussed. In Barcelona, where I took part in that meeting, I was given one example after another in connection with crowd control, trying to control city gangs, major collaborators or incidents with large groups. I note that after the riots a call is made, also addressed to individuals, to request images to identify the rioters present. In our capital, direct consultation by the police forces of STIB and SNCB's camera networks is still a problem. That has been indicted for two years and it is therefore not understood that this has not yet been settled. How is it possible that post-mortem police have to pull images, while underground in stations there are public cameras that could be used much more efficiently as part of crowd control? I am not going to say anything about justice, Minister. I have been annoyed by certain harsh statements, also because of the prosecutor who does not agree with the idea of zero tolerance. I was even more annoyed by the fact that we read in the newspaper today that one of the great ammo makers was someone who should have been locked up. However, he was on the waiting list for an anklet and was thus allowed to make free amok in our society. The argument for this is that this is a regionalised issue. In the meantime, it's Flemish matter, and it's running a little rough over there. I could go on like this, Minister. I like the capital, the Flemish, European and Belgian capitals, because that is Brussels, but it is very high time that things were put in order, not only for our image abroad, but above all for the security of our own people, of our middlemen, of our merchants. I agree with Mr Van Biesen that we should not have long discussions about structures, but structures have their interests. The unit of command is absolutely necessary, and that is what I hear abroad in order to organise an efficient security policy. I therefore regret that many Members of this House are now considering this as a Community issue. It may be a good theme to profile for the upcoming elections, but in the meantime it remains a structural problem that there are six separate police zones and that the police and administrative powers are divided into 19 mayors, and that into one large capital. That curses, it hits a pig like a pliers. I therefore regret that the matter is being communitized and I urge the government, without taboos, how many times has it been said, also by the Prime Minister, to put security first. Minister, I may be more sensitive to it than other fellow Members because Brussels is one centimetre away from my city. Mr Demon, I would very much like to hear you say that there is a distortion in the resources available to police areas, but I have noticed that you have approved the budget which confirms this distortion without hesitation. Minister, my plea is that the government should take responsibility. I know there is opposition to 19 mayors, but 19 mayors who put security first should realize sooner or later that it is necessary, in the interests of security, to install unity of command at regional level. My plea is that the government takes this to heart, abandons the taboo, does not make it a Community issue, but is implementing it in the interests of security. If what I hear other colleagues say is true, namely that the merger is not going to happen, then my second question is a question that should not actually be there. Let Parliament do its job. Years ago, a legislative proposal was tabled in Parliament for discussion. Eighteen months ago, the chairman of the committee responsible, the Counter-Terrorism Committee, decided that no further discussion was necessary. I address myself to the acting chairman of the committee. Mr President, whatever committee it is in, let Parliament do its job in the interests of the security of our country, the capital and its citizens.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic770x.u15	Minister, the report is very clear, clear and critical. The bottlenecks are listed: a lack of preparation, no plan of action in urban riots, no command post and no officer on the premises as an extension of the command post. The report also points to the agreement made with the mayor, namely: once destruction is done, the police must intervene. I also read in the inspection report, and I quote: 'The question is also asked why the police who were directly confronted with it did not intervene in the findings of looting, heavy vandalism and arson robbery. You must imagine this: a fire is set and the police, which is 100 metres away, do not intervene. "The victims of these facts are right to feel frustrated and abandoned by the police." That's sharp, but we don't have an answer to all the questions yet. Minister, I asked you two questions in plenary last week. You referred to the report at the time, but there is no answer to that either. First of all, was there or wasn't there an order not to act? That is what is said. They're policemen themselves, saying they wanted to, but they couldn't. Either that's made up, or it's true. Minister, it is important that we know whether that is true or not. Have orders been given not to act? If so, who gave the order? If that is not the case, then the fable must be removed from the world and we still have to find out why it took so long to act. The second question was about the federal reserve. You underlined last week in the plenary that the federal reserve was available. From the timeline we could conclude that it obviously took 45 minutes before the federal reserve was deployed. However, when I read the report, it is even worse. According to the chronology of the report, the federal reserve was made available at 19:40. The federal reserve was present at 19:56; 16 minutes later she is present. That's fast. Then the federal reserve will be gathered together with others and set up at 21:00. There's an hour between the moment she's at the agreed place and the moment of collection and setup. She'll be deployed at 21:24, an hour and a half after she was present. Why did that last an hour and a half? Why did they wait an hour and a half to put in the federal reserve that was there? After all, we know that there were reports of vandalism at 20:19. There were incidents at the stock market at 21:05. There was arson at 21:16. She'll be deployed at 9:24. The report is mid-term. That's what it says. There will therefore also be a final report. Minister, I believe that questions on chronology need to be answered. We need to know why the federal reserve hasn't been deployed. The report also says that the federal reserve is limited. We know, the federal reserve doesn't match what it should be in order to act effectively. Apparently they were there quickly, but it took a long time before they were deployed. I read that even support from Antwerp was offered and accepted. However, there is the federal reserve which is left for an hour and a half and then people from Antwerp have to come. I honestly don't understand. I hope that the final report will go into this in more detail. Minister, the report rightly states that people felt abandoned. If there is a clear agreement that in the event of destruction there will be immediate action and that will not happen, and the signal is that one has to secure one's own shop and home or apartment, then there are questions. If the government fails to protect citizens from arson and destruction, the government fails in one of its core tasks. My question is simple: what lessons do you draw from it? What will you do with the report? As I said, it's an interim report. Do you have any idea when the final report of the General Inspection can be expected? In view of the problems raised, would an external audit, for example by the P Committee, not be advisable at a later stage? If the President of Parliament has already given the order, my question will lapse. In any case, it remains essential for an external analysis to be carried out.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic770x.u16	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to start with a scoop: Brussels is the capital of Europe, Belgium, Flanders and the Brussels Region. These are 900 events per year, 3,500 events per year. So considering only the only population criterion to consider the financing of the police is laughable! This fusion of police areas is a Flemish obsession. I don't think she's meeting with my fellow Members of the House of Commons. Unless I'm wrong! Mrs Françoise Schepmans does not seem to be in favour of it. It would be good to hear them on the subject. You remain very silent on the subject. A few figures, however, since on some sides it is the population that counts on other sides: Brussels has 1.2 million inhabitants and 6 police areas; Flemish Brabant, 1.1 million inhabitants and 27 police areas. There is not too much and there is no need for fusion!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic770x.u17	I am in favour of merging many areas other than Brussels.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic770x.u18	It was a prerequisite for putting things in context. Now I'm going to talk about the report. I read it carefully, with height, because I am not Brussels, as a police practitioner, mayor and president of a police zone for a very long time. Several things surprised me. First, the mission you wanted to give to the AIG. The report says you're asking for an investigation into police intervention. Was it adequate or not? If not, why wasn't she? The rest is shocking since it is reported that you are waiting for a specific answer as to why no troublemaker was intercepted, especially since the mayor suggested in the media that he had not been surprised by the events and that he seemed prepared for them. I find it quite shocking. The mayor of Brussels did not say that he had not been surprised and that he was prepared for it, but he said that he had said to his bodymaster: "Be careful because there is this match between Côte d'Ivoire and Morocco. In case of victory, it is likely that Moroccans or people of Moroccan origin who live in Brussels celebrate this." He didn't say anything else. He didn't say there were going to be riots. But in what you say to the AIG, we could believe it, and that, I think, is a bit unhealthy. It's my impression, but maybe I'm wrong. As far as chronology is concerned, it took, I believe, three or four days at the IGA to produce the report. According to my information from trade union sources, from police sources, this type of report, this type of investigation sometimes lasts five to six weeks. Here, in three days, it's done. Then, and you have already been criticized, there is the fact that you have presented this report to the press on Friday without even having discussed it with the administrative authorities concerned; I find that there you have lacked method and doubtless lack of composure. It's not in your habits because you're still a methodical minister who doesn't do politics with killer tweets like some of your colleagues. I shall now return to this report. If you look at his conclusions, in my opinion, no fault is found. What I read is that the police were not prepared because of the lack of information. Who is responsible for the information? Everyone, the police of both levels, federal and local. This lack of information is the responsibility of all levels of the police. All of a sudden, there was only the mayor of Brussels who knew that Morocco was playing in Côte d'Ivoire. It was the key element, the key information. No, it's not right! Something escapes me in the way this report is instrumentalized. Honestly. Who could have this information? We're told that we didn't get any information from some neighborhoods because they'd be short of relays. What does that mean? That means we need more community policing. In order to have more community policing, we may need to be given the means to hire the 300 missing police officers in Brussels. Indeed, as you know, 300 police officers are missing from the organic framework in Brussels. In Antwerp, there are 140 more than the organic framework. You will tell me that money has been given, but I would point out to you that in five years the federal allocation to the Brussels area has increased by 7%, while the municipal allocations have increased by 13%. The cities that make up this area make the necessary efforts by granting a double increase compared to that of the federal one. I believe that the federal government needs to provide more specific support. Mr Minister, do you find it normal that the Brussels-Midi area has not been convened, even though it is mentioned in the report? It would appear that she was not contacted to make this report. One can continue to reject the responsibilities between the City of Brussels – its mayor especially, since it is obviously it that must be aimed at – and the Federal. We can play this game for a long time. But don't you think that we need to learn from what has happened and look to the future, to what will happen in the coming months, including the World Cup, which will certainly bring a lot of people together in the capital? Don't you think that all this needs to be planned in consultation between the federal and local levels? The necessary resources must be made available. The report also points out that the area still has a platoon of 40 police officers ready in case of an incident or demonstration. This, in my view, is the only area in the country that provides for it. Don't doubt it! This is in the report. I read it well. A first time in Dutch and I read it in French when we had the French version. It's a good exercise for me because you know I'm studying. With regard to the "Arrestations" component, it was said that it was not normal that no one had been arrested during the events. But we know why this was not possible: because there were not enough police officers, because we did not have the information and because the riots surprised the police forces. Since then, some 20 arrests have been made thanks to cameras and testimonies. A colleague has already mentioned this: people who should not be on the street have been arrested. Of the 20 arrests, do you know the profile of these people? Are there multi-recidivists among them? In this case, we can also talk about the responsibility of Justice and the federal government. I would like to know, beyond the search for each other's responsibilities, how you intend to react to what has happened and what you propose for the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic770x.u19	I recall what I said at the beginning: there will be one speaker per question introduced. You seemed to say that we were very quiet, but the rule is so fixed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic770x.u20	I wish you'd asked me a question!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic770x.u21	I'll do it later. Mr. Dallemagne, it's your turn.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic770x.u22	Mr Minister, I should like to begin by lamenting the way in which you have communicated this whole matter. These are, of course, extremely serious and serious incidents, which we have all considered unacceptable. As far as I am concerned, as I have just said, I regret the way in which the federal government as a whole has communicated. As a reminder, these incidents took place on 11 November. On 16 November, the Prime Minister, together with you, held a press conference on a plan. On the afternoon of 16 November, the House received little information on this plan. You did not provide any information about what happened on November 11 or the request you made to the Inspectorate. On the other hand, the next day, you were holding a press conference in a hurry, without having questioned the head of the corps and without having submitted this report to him. You also refused to receive the mayor of the city of Brussels. In my opinion, you have not been high enough to consider your responsibility as Minister of the Interior. As other colleagues have pointed out before me, Brussels is our capital for all and we must ensure that the safety of all citizens is ensured and that the best possible cooperation is organised between the local floor and the federal floor in terms of tasks. I have also read this report. It is clear that there are a range of issues to be addressed in terms of strategy, capacity, interfaces between the local and federal levels, and mobilization of other police areas. But I really believe, for my part, that you have made an extremely one-sided reading of it and that criticism can be directed at all levels of power. We must be aware that it was not possible to anticipate these events. It was not possible to imagine that a match taking place abroad could cause riots in Belgium. No one, and certainly not the federal police, had anticipated this incident. We must therefore learn from what has happened and know that, because of social networks, such incidents can happen again in our territory because of events taking place abroad. First and foremost, there is a federal responsibility in this area. The evidence is that you are taking initiatives to ensure that the capacity called OSINT (Open Source Intelligence) is extended beyond terrorism issues. In the future, we will be "paddling" on the Internet, certainly more at the federal level than at the local level. This remains, in any case, a responsibility of the federal state. Furthermore, Mr. Minister of the Interior, it is clear that the capacity of the Federal Police has been diminished in recent years. It's obvious! When you arrived in 2012 and 2013, there were 1,400 recruitments per year at the police level. The first thing you did when you got to Law Street number 2, is to reduce it to 800 people a year. Today, there are serious shortcomings in the federal police, as is well known, resulting in postponements of a series of local police missions and extremely complicated effects for these areas. I have heard that one of my colleagues from the N-VA was ironing that the Brussels police area had only a staff of 45 uniformed to intervene for this type of event. Do you know what the federal police reserve is for this type of event? Does anyone know? Twenty people! Twenty at the national level! And we are spoiled by the fact that the City of Brussels is only able to mobilise 45 people! Finally! Whether the federal government sweeps a little outside its door before criticizing an area or another that, in this case, has succeeded in building capacity at the local level that does not even exist at the federal level. Twenty people and one self-taught for the federal reserve! It is known that these budget restrictions have had an impact on specialized support. I mean, for example, Brussels has only one armoured vehicle (an APL) and one self-propelled. From what I hear and my sources are reliable, the police must choose between one or the other because of a shortage of drivers. Do you know how long a bus was no longer purchased by the federal police? The last bus was bought ten years ago! Some can no longer drive today and can no longer bring the Federal Reserve to the places where there are demonstrations. Mr Minister of the Interior, my request is to ask that, in a constructive and non-communitarist or partisan way, we be able to check the mechanisms that protect the population at best and anticipate such events in the future. I think that's what to do and that's what I expect from you. Finally, with regard to arrest, the report states that there was no arrest because there was no capacity to anticipate this event, whereas on Wednesday, 15 November, these events had been and the arrests could have taken place at that time. My colleague, Franky Demon, asks for a comparison of federal police staffing by number of inhabitants. I did not know that the European summits were held once in Meise, once in Vilvoorde or in Hal, and that European demonstrations were taking place everywhere! I have always believed that these European summits were taking place in the Brussels Region and that the demonstrations were also taking place there. I've probably been misinformed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic770x.u23	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic770x.u24	Mr Verherstraeten, that is not enough. When we see that the Antwerp police zone has, beyond its scope, 140 police officers, while 500 are missing in Brussels, we may wonder whether, for some parties, the priority is still Brussels.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic770x.u25	Mr President, a lot has been said, but I would like to ask the minister a few more specific questions. I am thinking, among other things, of all those traders who were victims of vandalism, who were robbed and for whom this moment was painful and even catastrophic. Who will take care of the damage? I hear the franchises will be taken care of. However, in order to be deductible, the intervention of an insurance company is necessary. Most of them do not cover such disasters. What happens when traders find themselves without a blanket? Minister, my other question will be about pedestrians more specifically. As it is currently organized, it is a hindrance to rapid intervention by law enforcement and security agencies. What initiative do you intend to take to address this? Finally, and I believe that this question has already been asked, minister, it seems that a platoon of 19 agents equipped in the manner of Robocop have been placed on hold, but they have not received any orders. That would be the reason why they did not intervene. If it turns out, was there a mistake made by the command?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic770x.u26	Minister, I must confess that I have come to know with great interest the report of the Inspectorate General, which I believe is neither complete nor final. Moreover, it was clarified that he was an intermediary. It is true that not all police authorities in the Region have yet been interviewed. Some corps chiefs have not been - while their area's strength, yes. However, I have no doubt that the investigation will be further developed. Moreover, it was not for nothing that the Conference of Mayors of the Brussels-Capital Region asked the heads of corps to make their contribution to the reconstruction of the facts. What interests me first of all is the analysis of the facts. Before drawing a number of political consequences, it is necessary to ensure that there is an objective analysis of the facts, established in a certain way and not with approximations. The first analysis of the facts is the predictability or not of the event. Whether you like it or not, it changes the ability of the police to assume the unpredictable nature or not of an event of this importance. There's a football cell at the Ministry of the Interior. Does this unit also have the task of assessing the risks associated with games held abroad but which may have repercussions in Belgium? It would seem to me normal for this unit to have this mission and to be able to determine whether, in particular through the monitoring of social networks, we can see the indications that there will be a mobilization in the wake of a match held abroad and for which we know that there are many supporters in Belgium of the teams in attendance. This seems to me to be part of a normal foresight mission of a specialized cell like the Football Cell. We know that football matches generate phenomena of gatherings. It is not a great genius of predictability to know that some games – we see it sometimes with the Champions League – generate rallies – generally peaceful and enthusiastic but not always – even if the competition does not take place in Belgium. There is therefore a work of predictability which must be resumed. And we need to make it clear what is assumed by the federal police and what is assumed by the local police. It is clear that the zonal police can do a work of predictability via their relays on the ground. It's his role to have a presence in the neighborhoods. Hence the importance of the local police! All those who believe that the merger of the police zones would keep the local police are working backwards, we will return to it. Predictability must be shared between those who must have the ability to monitor social networks and those who must have the ability to gather information on the ground. Memoranda of understanding may need to be defined between them. Second observation: contrary to what is meant, the event was located in the territory of a single municipality. There was no command problem. By definition, the command was unique, since it was located in the territory of a single commune: it was in the hands of the Brussels-Ixelles police zone. The reinforcements, when they come, are the subject of perfect coordination and integrated command. I believe that some have still not understood anything about the operation of the zones. There is an integrated command for law and order operations between the six Brussels police zones, with a precise definition of the tasks of each liaison police officer, and of each zone with the command within the Brussels-Ixelles police zone. Moreover, it is expected that it is generally in the territory of the commune where the events take place mainly that the command is to be assumed, with the other police areas making their liaison officers available to the main command, the gold. There's a major gold and a minor gold. I can give you a description of the functions that are perfectly distributed in case of collaboration between Brussels police zones for localized events. There's no problem, you can question all the heads of bodies. The integrated command exists, Mr. Bonte. If you didn't know, I think there are more between the six Brussels police zones than between the 27 areas of the Flemish Brabant! I expect to know the protocols in force between the areas of Flemish Brabant to check whether the same command integration exists for law enforcement operations. I doubt it. I believe that Brussels is well ahead of schedule. Thirdly, on both the federal and Brussels sides, the mobilization capabilities for unpredictable events need to be reviewed. If we consider that this event was totally unpredictable, we cannot prepare it in the same way. In the face of sudden events, we do not have the same capabilities as if there is some predictability. If the event is sudden, how soon can the forces be brought together? I note that the forces were gathered relatively quickly. But not enough. It has been known for years – and I talk about it regularly – that the federal reserve is skeletal. It was dismantled in its time for political reasons. It is scandalous that the capital of the kingdom does not have a greater capacity to deal with any event. But I am not saying either that we should not develop strengthened procedures for mobilizing Brussels police areas to deal with sudden events. Procedures can always be improved. I note that the areas have been able to mobilise two platoons, but it must be recognised that this is not enough to deal with sudden and unpredictable events. Internal procedures in Brussels areas must also be improved. I don't have taboos on the subject. But the effort must come from both sides: on the federal side and on the Brussels side. It is also known that the latter have a hypothecized capacity more often mobilized for events outside the Brussels Region than in the opposite direction. I'm ready to count. I know that we will be told that the major European summits or the visit of the American Head of State are mobilising all areas of the country. But, in addition to the burdens they bear for the major events taking place in Brussels, the Brussels areas are mobilising for other areas as well. But I have no problem with the logic of solidarity that must prevail between zonal police as it was intended by police reform. But it is true that over time the federal reserve has been decapitated too clearly than to maintain a genuine real-time mobilization capability. When we look at the chronology, I register falsely in relation to what Mr. Van Hecke. In reality, the first major incidents began at 9:05 p.m. At that time, however, the numbers were being deployed. The report says that the federal police assume the central axis Boulevards Anspach and Lemonnier because the men of these reserves have a less good knowledge of the terrain. The central axis is easier to manage for them. Meanwhile, the platoons of the Brussels-Ixelles area are deployed on the side axes because they know the mazes of the city centre. I therefore do not believe that the command has properly mobilised the available personnel. I interviewed the Chief of Staff of my police zone, and he told me that the two sections that were sent by my police zone have done their work in depth, as they are asked to do, with the available staff. If the count was made, there were no more than 120 staff members available, adding up all capacities. To deal with a sudden and unpredictable event in Brussels during the weekend, 120 police officers all together, this is not enough. We must have the honesty to say that if we want more capacity, we will have to make budgetary efforts on both the federal and the zonal sides. I also take my share of responsibility as a mayor. We need to talk about it seriously: what standards do we want to have, in comparison with what is being done in other major European cities? I'd be curious to have points of comparison. I have already had echoes of what exists in Paris or other cities, but these are other dimensions. We must have the will to say that, in the capital of Europe, the powers of all authorities must give a different image than that of this insufficiency to deal with events of such importance. Everyone has to take responsibility. The merger of police zones is a decoy. I would have to explain to you what if there were only one police area in Brussels, it would have changed in terms of numbers that night. As if the staff were not to come back from decentralized police stations! I suppose no one would imagine that if there was a single police area, everything would be located in the centre of Brussels. It is necessary to take on tasks in the territory of the nineteen communes. The recall of troops is carried out in accordance with procedures and time limits inevitably set. It's not true to say that with a single police zone we would have had another 150 police officers. It is not a single area, but it is a matter of organising our capabilities according to either the predictability of events or the obligation to assume an international and European mission in Brussels. If we want to take on the international and European mission of Brussels, we must devote the necessary resources, but also on the federal side.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic770x.u27	Ladies and gentlemen, I shall begin with a general consideration. Then I will try to answer exactly your, sometimes very precise, questions. On 13 November, the mission was given to the AIG (Algemene Inspectorate / General Inspectorate) to set up an investigation. Even if this has already been mentioned in part here, I will repeat the request made to him. The above-mentioned consequences of the riots are of such a nature (vandalism, looting, arson, robbery, assault and wounding) that I wish to obtain full clarity in this matter. That's why I'm asking for an investigation into the police intervention. What was appropriate? What wasn't? If not, why not? I would like to receive an answer to the specific question of why no troublemaker could be apprehended, especially since the mayor indicated in the media that he was not surprised by the events and even more, that he seemed to have prepared himself for the facts. In this regard, some agents, although anonymous, expressed dissatisfaction with the improvisation conditions in which they had to intervene. It therefore seems to me appropriate to clarify these contradictions and to draw lessons from this incident for the future and, in particular, for the 2018 World Cup. On Friday night, I gave a press conference on the AIG report that I was due to receive at noon. Contrary to what was said here and there, I did not give an interpretation at this press conference, let alone a unilateral interpretation of the AIG report. I just delivered the consequences of the report. I think that after all the attention given to the events and after it was announced that the IGA report would be ready on Friday - it was also part of my response to the House - it was clear that it was necessary to communicate, not on interpretations, but on the consequences and recommendations of the report. I think it's normal for us to communicate at that time. So I only made a statement in which I communicated the contents of the report. I have also pointed out that the report will be discussed today in the House's Committee on the Interior, which we are doing. I have my statement here. I have therefore drawn both positive and negative conclusions from the report. You have all just provided proof that you have been able to look at and study the report yourself. I delivered it to each of you on Monday after I received the official question from the chairman of the committee. For the sake of understanding, allow me to recapitulate the essence of the problem unequivocally on the basis of the AIG report. Police action, both administrative and judicial, requires two basic ingredients: capacity and leadership. If either is missing, the chances of success are nil. In this case, the diagnosis of the AIG was rather clear. The capacity was available on site. The leadership, being an adequate chain of command, to deploy that capacity, including the extra-zonal reinforcements, was insufficient. In my view, therefore, there should not be a lack of manpower at this stage before adequate use is made of the available capacity. One can have the discussion about men and capacity. This debate has its rights and obligations, but if it is said that there was capacity available during the incidents that was not deployed, then we must first examine what went wrong there before the debate was focused on capacity. It's not high-tech, and it doesn't take months of research to put the finger on the wound. Another problematic element in the report is the lack of a plan of action in the event of unannounced incidents, in this case riots. I believe that Brussels, as the capital of Europe, needs a concrete roadmap for unexpected riots and related phenomena, such as looting and arson. I noted in Wednesday's riots that there was already some improvement compared to Saturday's. One can ask questions at the outbreak of the riots on Wednesday, but the control of the riots already went a lot better than Saturday. I would like to make it clear once again that it is not the place to blame individuals and organisations; that is not what this is about. The problems are beginning to be mentioned by their name. I did not accuse anyone, but I did mention a number of recommendations from the report. It's my style of acting to name the problems, especially when the information comes from an independent institution like the AIG. The problems are mentioned by their name and then they are examined how to solve them, together with those involved, but without accusing them or pointing the finger at them, because that makes no sense at all at this stage. Again, the problems are beginning to be mentioned by their name. I didn't blame anyone on Friday, and neither do I today. I have identified shortcomings in the structures, and I have raised them, as described in the report's conclusion. That's not an interpretation of Jambon or anyone else. There were, of course, positive elements in the report, and I mentioned them. (...): (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic770x.u28	Yes, ma'am. You weren't there and you shouldn't shake no. I can give you my statement and you can read it. I have pointed out that it is a good thing that Brussels continuously keeps a peloton at its disposal to respond to unexpected riots. That is a positive thing. Some say that Brussels is perhaps the only area in the country that does so, and that is a positive thing. I see no reason to question the quality of the report. It was not written in haste, it focuses on the facts and is very clear. I would add that it has been written in particular by former heads of bodies, among them a person who has the experience of the Brussels terrain. This report has been discussed in various forums, whether political or not. You will find a list of the people who were interviewed for the purpose of making it. The Senior Consultation Committee, responsible for risk analysis and welfare conclusions, will meet on 28 November. In recent days, I have met with various actors in the field, the Federal Police Directorate and a few police unions. It is clear that imposing structures from above makes no sense, both in Brussels and in the Flemish and Walloon municipalities. I'm getting to the story of the merger. I am indeed in favour of mergers in this country and not just for the Brussels zones. For me, 187 police zones across the country are too many of the good. It is my conviction that we must move towards less but more forceful police areas, not only in Brussels but throughout the country. That is why we have instructed two people, including the lamented Brice De Ruyver, who have earned their stripes in this area, to examine, starting from the local authorities, what is possible, for which there is support and for which a basis can be created. Yes, I am in favour of a merger of the six Brussels zones, but I am not in favour of imposing unilaterally at federal level by royal decree that the Brussels zones should merge. That is what the disaster is all about. It is not possible to merge against the will of those who must be merged. It doesn't work. We must therefore create a basis for support, and we must do so together. In Brussels and in other areas all over the country, we must try to create a basis for moving towards larger units. If a merger is imposed against the will of those who must be merged, the disaster will be organised. I have seen it in business, which is similar but not the same as the world of police zones. If there is no support, the disaster will be organised in advance. We do not have to agree, but that is my conviction. My colleague, Mr Geens, and I myself have been given the mandate of the government to draw up a short-term action plan in cooperation and in good consultation with the Brussels authorities. It is clear that with the report in hand we must sit down with the Brussels authorities to see what lessons are learned and, above all, what solution we can offer to the problems. That's obvious. That is why tomorrow morning, around 7:30, if I am not mistaken, I will sit with Mr Close and the Chief Constable to attend the concert. That is not to do to each other the devil, but to find out how we can strengthen each other and get out of the impasse on the basis of what we have learned from this. As I said earlier, I have already consulted with the people of the terrain, the police unions and the federal police summit on this matter. With the support of the government, Mr Geens and I will draw up an action plan. I don't want to talk about the justice section today. Three challenges need to be addressed with regard to the police section. First, there is the challenge of the unit of command. Mr Maingain, you are quite right: procedures exist, such as the Gold Commander, but this device did not work on the evening of 11 November. I will come back to that earlier, but in any case, you are right to point out that these procedures exist. I believe that we need a unit of command. Secondly, the information position has already been mentioned by several people, and rightly so. I'm not saying that everything's with the local police and nothing's with the federal police. We are in the same boat together and we must come to a solution together. I believe that there are a number of important elements concerning the information position. What about the information that's in the neighborhoods? I share Mr Maingain's conviction that the information position in the neighbourhoods, in the streets, is indeed a task of the local police. It's his responsibility. Then there's the social media. That challenge is immense. It's not possible for every area that scans social media. What have we done? We have established the Internet Referral Unit with currently 23 employees. There is now also a market survey for a data, analysis and internet scanning system, OSINT. This can be purchased with the post-attack interdepartmental budgets. We will be able to award the contract before the end of this year. Of course, it would have been better if we had that system last week or two weeks ago; in any case, the market survey is ongoing. The third problem to be solved is the absence of a schematic for riots and other calamities. The Brussels police have wonderful roadmaps for organised events. This is also demonstrated at the euro summit, the NATO summit, Trump's visit. The plans are there and are well worked out. There is no plan for unexpected riots. There is a platoon available, which I applaud with applause, but there is no plan. We need to tackle that gap, and we will. Finally, an adequate risk analysis should be carried out for each order service in order to intervene quickly and adequately when risks of emergency arise. Then a number of specific questions have been asked, which I shall now turn to. Mr Vanden Burre, you say that the reserve is not sufficient. As I have said on several occasions, 25 people from the Federal Reserve were present at that time, as well as 36 people from the Intervention Force (ICK). The CIK, within the Canal Plan, has a capacity of 120 people. We are strengthening the capacity of the Federal Reserve. Mr Van Hecke, you gave the timeline. The federal reserve was very fast on site with 28 people. I know we need to build up the federal reserve, but that wasn't the problem that night. The federal reserve was there. I have already responded to a number of points, including the information position and the plan of action in the event of riots. I come to an interesting question about whether there is a guideline. The fact that it doesn't exist in Brussels also challenged me. I wonder if this exists in other large areas. It may be less useful in rural areas. In any case, I will give a guideline to that effect. You also say that material aid is too weak. I can hear you, but the federal support was there. We deployed the helicopter and the sprinkler. All required and required equipment was available. We didn't use it enough, but that's something else. J'y reviens. Several members also asked why the police did not take action against the lootings. That is also the question that lives in public opinion. Whoever was in command in the field has set priorities at some point. There is the myth that the mayor would have said no action should be taken. That's not true, that's not true. On the contrary, there is a general directive of the mayor: if there are riots, lootings, arsons or something like that, then action must be taken immediately. Politically speaking, therefore, the good commands were given there. Then why didn't that happen on that day? You can also read it in the report of the AIG: the person who commanded the field has given priority to the riots, because he supposedly did not have the capacity. However, the capacity was ready: 30 men from Bruxelles-Midi and 30 men from three other zones were ready but were not deployed. Yes, Mr. Maingain, the Gold Commander exists, but it didn't work. Field command was not aware of the capabilities of the other areas. The capabilities were there, and instead had police officers specialized in arrests, and they were not used. Here are the facts. We do not need a merger of zones to solve this problem. I'm trying to be honest. There are other problems that we can solve, such as capacity; this is another debate. But I find that the command on the ground was not aware of the capabilities available. Let us consider how, in the future, we can solve this problem. Mr Van Biesen has since left. He asked how we will succeed in maintaining order in the future. It seems clear to me that the shortcomings contained in the report should be included in an action plan. We will do the same in the short term. Mr Calomne pointed out to me that the Brussels mayors want a consultation with us. Those who are present here will be able to agree that when I am invited by the Conference of Brussels Mayors, I reply immediately present. If the 19 mayors of Brussels call for consultation, my colleague Koen Geens and I are prepared to do so. Mrs Gabriels, you asked me if there were any no-go zones. No, they don't exist. The Channel Plan contains clear guidelines. If in the past there was a weaker occupation of the site, it is now resolved. I have already replied to the screening of social media. The fact that the federal reserve wasn't deployed isn't right. The capacity of the adjacent zones was not deployed but the federal reserve was. An overview of the arrests was also requested. I can be very precise in that: nine people were arrested at the riots of Saturday, six of whom were adults and three were minors. Ten others were identified. At present, 21 others need to be identified on the basis of camera images. That investigation is still ongoing, but these are the exact figures. Mr Demon, I have just answered the questions about the information position. Then I come to the precise questions about the distress calls. The CIC received a total of 541 calls between 19:00 and 04:00 on the night of 11-12 November. 313 were addressed to emergency number 101 and 55 were taken from the emergency centre 100. All of these are calls received by the CIC, not just those relating to the events at the Muntplein. These are global figures. In the same period of time, 180 of the 541 calls were cancelled by the caller before contacting an operator of the CIC. Of these, 83 were addressed to emergency number 101. There was also a discussion about the capacity of a platoon. Well, I can tell you that a platoon consists of 40 men, including the driver and the commando. So we're talking about a total of 40 men. I was just talking about the capacity of the federal reserve. Of the federal reserve 28 men were deployed and of the CIK 36. In addition, the helicopter and the spray truck were used. Quid World It is clear that the lessons that we have learned and the action plan we are opposed to are also in the light of the 2018 World Cup. I would like to add the following. It can be expected that, as a result of a football match somewhere in the world, there will be celebrations here. I'm from Genk and I can tell you that when Italy becomes world champion, the town colors... [[(...): (...)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic770x.u29	In Brasschaat, these are the Dutch,... Don't get me wrong, if there's a reason to celebrate anywhere in the world or locally, there's nothing against it. The more the merrier. That's always very cozy in Genk when the Italians came out. A lot of noise, always very nice, but there were no riots. This is where the party degenerates into riots. That's the problem. Mr. Bonte, you mentioned cameras in the context of crowd control. You're right, but that's a passage in the camera law that I'll file in the Chamber before the end of the year. You told me once that this could be solved through a simple KB, but this does not seem to be so simple. It's now in the camera law that comes to the Chamber before the end of the year. You also had comments about the Justice Department. You will understand that I do not comment on this in my capacity. I've already said what I have to say about the merger. Mr. Van Hecke, the order not to act. It's not an order not to act. It is a priority of command on the ground because not all capacity has been used. Otherwise, we could have acted. It does say "intermediately" report. I think it is fair to consult with Brussels tomorrow with this report. I will see if there is any need to change the facts in the report. So it is not the case that we still have a lot of business to do in order to arrive at the final report. With regard to capacity issues, including those of Mr Thiébaut, I would like to point out that on the occasion of the sixth reform of the State, the Brussels Region received 55 million for security, representing more than 1,000 full-time equivalents. So the financial means are there. If the Brussels Region decides to devote part of this amount to other security measures, I must respect its decision, to respect its autonomy as a Region. I also respect the agreements concluded between the municipalities and the Region in this respect. But I do not think it is acceptable to come and ask for new financial means to increase the capacity of men, after deciding to use part of the amount in question for other purposes. That said, I never accused the mayor. I reported the results of the investigation. I'll talk to the mayor to see how to solve the problem on the ground. I'm not looking for someone in charge. We now have an analysis and we will work together to find a solution together, at local level, at federal level, and perhaps at regional level as well. I'm not looking for a confrontation. Mr Maingain, quite honestly, I do not think that the Football Cell is the right place to scan events in the world of football. This cell is not a police unit but an administrative unit that manages the coordination of security policy in our stadiums. It seems to me that within the police, we must manage events and anticipate possible risks. I do not want to operate a specific assignment to the Football Cell or to others. It is necessary, in my view, to centralize this within the police. I agree with you about integrated command. This is true, but it still needs to be implemented on the ground. Mr President, I think I have answered most of the questions and I thank you for your input.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic770x.u30	Mr Minister, I do believe that you have been, as usual, very thorough. Are there any lines? [[Oui]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic770x.u31	Mr. Chair, Mr. Minister, thank you for your answers. I must say that the tone you adopt and the way you present things today are more serene and responsible than those you used in the press on Friday. You gave a press conference. The heads of bodies, who disagreed, reacted and complained in the press. It gave a very unpleasant feeling. Today, I think your speech is more responsible. I hope we won't have to go through a war in the press for three-four days. This is not helping anyone, and certainly not our fellow citizens. We are awaiting a final report. Initiatives will be taken. I'm not going to go back to all the questions I asked. I think it is really fundamental, beyond the political debates, which are very burdensome from the Community's point of view, to propose concrete solutions for our citizens, especially for Brussels, our capital. We must be constructive. We must do this together, with the different levels of power - federal, local, regional. It's really fundamental. Otherwise, we won't make it. In any case, we will not be able to develop solutions for the benefit of all. For us, it's really very important. It is really important to focus on neighbourhood work, community work, prevention work. We know it's done. Part, at least, is made. But, again, more needs to be devoted to it. This is also reflected in the recommendations of the committee of inquiry: more resources, more men and women in the field, neighbourhood workers for community work. This work not only improves the safety and quality of life of our citizens, but also strengthens our information position. If this neighbourhood field work had existed and had been totally effective, there would have been no failure in the information for the preparation of the evening of November 11. It is essential to avoid these upstream and fundamental spillovers that can be discussed. You're talking about the 2018 World Cup; we know very well that for fans, even hooligans, we need to engage in a dialogue upstream so that we don't get caught up in spontaneous riots. For this, proactive neighbourhood work is an important key.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic770x.u32	Minister, thank you for the answers. A word about the state of mind that must enliven us: it is important to take the essential step backwards in any measured and constructive analysis. Deficiencies are obviously essential for defining solutions. But it must be possible to do so with the utmost serenity. It is this serenity that must govern our debates and the just and firm solutions that we must bring. We must be determined to draw the consequences of the violent events from which everyone ultimately loses: the citizens caught in these riots, the police and rescue forces involved, the traders who have also lost a lot, including confidence in the future. Let us not be mistaken: it is also the image of Brussels, the capital of our country and of Europe, that has suffered. For our safety, for the quality of our life in Brussels and for the capital of our country, which attracts all eyes, let us be intransigent on the principle of zero tolerance, but let us not forget the aspects of prevention. From this perspective, new technologies offer us valuable tools to anticipate and collect useful information. I conclude on an issue that is passionate about the debate this afternoon: the option of merging the police areas of the Brussels-Capital Region. I have no taboo in relation to this solution, nor my group. But do you think that would be "the" solution in this case or even more generally? In our view, it would be naive to think so because the problems of radicalisation or terrorism, for example, involve discussions with the Vilvoorde area and it is not the mayor of Vilvoorde here who will say the opposite. Similarly, the attacks that took place in Zaventem concern the Zaventem area. If we follow this reasoning, where should mergers stop in order to claim such efficiency as some colleagues have claimed? Minister, I take note of your positive response to the invitation to the Conference of Brussels Mayors and thank you for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic770x.u33	Minister, it is good that a preliminary report has been drawn up in such a short time. When such serious facts arise, it is good that a number of answers are given in the short term. I understand that the final report will not take long and will be finalised after consultation with all the actors involved. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate does not, of course, end today. Our group has even advocated a unit of command this weekend, but, as Mr Van Biesen has just said, the debate should not be limited to a debate on structures, quite the contrary. Minister, you have just given us a number of figures. As I said earlier, the government did not save on security in this legislature, especially in Brussels. The resources available must be used correctly and in good time. Let us start with that now. We look forward to the plan of action that you will be working with Minister None to update in the coming months.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic770x.u34	Minister, it is good that the report highlights both local and federal problems. It is also a good thing that we are working on this tomorrow. Knowing that the Walloon Prime Minister also has a say in this, he should perhaps be involved. If I can give you one tip for tomorrow, it's that efficiency needs to be looked at. The resources are available, but how can they be used as effectively and efficiently as possible?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic770x.u35	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. You used to be very clear and complete. You have really identified the problems and proposed a solution. That is what we must be able to do, both in these and in various other situations. It starts with naming the problems. We must not get carried away in the comments on the problems and reactions to these comments, because then the debate will be moved away from the problem. Too much is happening here. I learn that from Mr Vanden Burre's discourse. The problem must be dealt with rationally. If we have to talk about the merger of police zones in the future, this should not be done from a political obsession, as Mr Calomne rightly says. No one's asking. It has to be done from a certain ratio, in a rational way, and that can certainly happen serenely.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic770x.u36	Mr Degroote, I agree and disagree with you. I absolutely agree with you when you say that we should name the cases and then resolve them. Today we see again a report with a lot of questions and dysfunctions. There is no follow-up of street gangs, lack of coordination and unity of command. The report identifies the problems and I agree with you that they are best resolved. What I do not agree with is that we need to look at this pragmatically. When it comes to the security of citizens and of our capital city, when it comes to tackling such nuisance phenomena that scare people for days, one must be fundamental and efficient and not pragmatically look for solutions. Having said that, Minister, I expected it. I hear the Minister of Justice arguing that there is a need for unity of command in the capital and I hear you say that you are in favour of it and then people are drowning the fish. The need for wider police zones in other places is something I agree with. That there are resistances and that we need to look at things more globally, I agree with that. But that there is no support for it, which is a disaster for the capital, is turning the world upside down. Ask outside whether there is support for this, and you will be told that there is very broad support. Of course, it depends on who you listen to. If one really wants to install a unit of command in the Brussels-Capital Region, this means that one does it at the level of the Region. When listening to 19 mayors who are effectively losing a piece of power, there is indeed little support. But we already knew that, colleagues, for a long time. This is about safety. The two security ministers, the Ministers of Justice and the Interior, say that unity of command is necessary, as any analyst says, but if they say that there is no basis for acceptance, then the problem is that you do not accept your responsibility to my great regret. You are unable to assume your responsibility in such a crucial area as security because the majority do not support it. It's as simple as that. Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to address the chairman of the Committee on Counter-Terrorism. Eighteen months ago, under your Presidency, the debate on the issue of the unit of command was stopped. Parliament must now honour itself and accept its responsibility to do what our two security ministers advocate, namely to create a single police structure in the capital. Mr President, I would like to call for this item to be put back on the agenda. Let us discuss this in complete serenity, because I think there is no doubt that the establishment of your police zones is a federal competence. Minister, I remember yesterday's merger of police zones within the framework of the integrated police force. I can assure you that the government at the time had a lot of resistance in a number of zones, in a number of mayors, to impose mergers. Even then, there was no support in certain areas. Perhaps the fact that we now have too small areas, as in my region, Mr Maingain, is due to the fact that we have looked too much at the support of that individual mayor. Take responsibility and set up our country in a contemporary way when it comes to the organisation of our police services.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic770x.u37	Minister, today you have adopted your usual, much more laid style. You didn't have the same tone at the press conference, and I want to say it. You were constructive and objective in your analysis today. That being said, you have not answered some of my questions, particularly those concerning the possible presence of multiple repeat offenders among those arrested. It should be noted that police officers who arrest people, and who find the same people very quickly in the field while they have been convicted, are discouraged. The slogan "zero tolerance" is only a slogan if it is not accompanied by means so that justice can follow the policy you want to print it. I come to the conclusions of the report. What you have explained to us now is not exactly what I am reading. Maybe there's a translation problem. I will reread the first paragraph of the conclusion, Mr. Chairman. It is very short and I do not want to prolong the debate: "Because of the lack of information, the police were not prepared. Sufficient resources could not be provided on the ground to prevent and/or manage incidents. There is insufficient capacity to make responsible arrests. There was no provision for a command post, and no officer was present in the field to coordinate the available forces. All breaches are the result of the lack of prior information." I read that from there, the means to carry out these arrests were not present on the ground. We have the answer. Somewhere in the report, I recognize that there is an officer in the Midi zone. He would have said that there were capabilities available for PolBru. But the head of the corps said something else the day after your press conference. He said he needed his men to maintain order and security in his area. This area is a bit on horseback in the Midi and PolBru areas. He made it clear that he needed men to control what might happen on the edge of the incidents. You see that we do not have the same reading of this report at all. I'm sorry. As for the analysis of what is on social networks, especially on Facebook, we agree. Areas do not have the means to have an effective screening tool to detect threats that would arise from exchanges and calls for demonstration or violence on social networks. There, of course, it is the federal government that must play. I am pleased to learn that you will contact the mayors, no doubt to consider a strategy to prevent riots in the future. I believe that today is the time for consultation between the federal and local levels, in the light of upcoming events such as the World Cup, which is likely to generate rallies that I hope will probably be manifestations of joy and joy. I'm telling you because maybe you're not a football fan. The Italians won't be here! Neither do the Dutch. This obviously affects you more in Brasschaat. The Spaniards will be here. As for the Catalans, it may be in a few years, right, Mr. Jambon? I thank you for putting the debate back on a more serene footing and I encourage you to pursue the objectives that you have set today.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic770x.u38	Colleague, I would like to join you in thanking the minister for his answers. I would also like to thank the members of this committee for their participation in this serene debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic770x.u39	Minister, after this great debate, I come back with a question that is not of the same importance; please excuse me. I wanted to talk to you about cross-border cooperation between our relief zones and the French counterparts in this case if we talk about the Franco-Belgian border. Minister, the same question can of course arise with the other borders of our country. Fires regularly occur in Belgium right next to the Franco-Belgian border. My question is particularly about the Dinaphi emergency zone. Currently, two agreements exist between France and Belgium, which allow French aid to intervene in Belgium. One concerns urgent medical aid. It is known that a major first at European level has been implemented for urgent medical aid. There is nothing like this about fire department interventions, which in some cases generates questions and problems, knowing that it is also a fight against time. In case of a fire, the faster you can intervene, the better. The governor of the province of Namur informed us that he had organized an exploratory meeting with the Prefecture, the French Department of Fire and Rescue (SDIS) and the Dinaphi area in January of this year to try to improve the coordination of the various stakeholders and to consider the possibility of concluding agreements to this effect. This first meeting in January was followed by a meeting with the Prefect of the Department of the Ardennes, a little later. It is clear from these contacts that, on the Belgian side, our rescue zones, and in this case Dinaphi, are in a position to conclude cross-border agreements under the 2007 law. On the other hand, the SDIS of the French Ardennes and the Prefecture cannot pass such conventions without a framework agreement at national level. We therefore need a state-to-state agreement, it seems, for this to take place. What is unfortunate is that such cooperation existed in the 1990s through de facto cooperation between the services of neighbouring countries. This agreement of the 1990s was signed at the time by the governor of the province and the prefect of the department of the Ardennes, but the consequence of the reform of the fire services was that this old agreement fell into disuse. That's why I'm asking you, Minister. Do you confirm to me that, in order to conclude such cross-border agreements, a framework agreement is necessary and must be approved at national level? Is such a framework agreement envisaged? What is the procedure followed? Above all, according to what timetable could it achieve? More specifically, is it on the agenda to update and formalise the cross-border collaboration that previously existed? In addition, the Governor of Namur Province informs us that he has sent you a letter to examine the possibility of a framework agreement at the national level. What welcome have you given to this message?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic770x.u40	Mr Delizée, as you rightly point out, with regard to firefighters' interventions, a cross-border cooperation agreement is in force for the province of Namur – but, for the moment, only in the event of a disaster or a serious accident. For the so-called "routine" interventions, the governor of the province of Namur has never signed a cooperation agreement with a French authority. On the other hand, there were agreements between certain municipal fire departments and their French counterparts. As far as the Dinaphi emergency zone is concerned, no cooperation agreement has yet been concluded with the Northern Fire Department. However, the Dinaphi relief zone has expressed its willingness to conclude such a convention. On the Belgian side, legislation allows this. Indeed, the Civil Security Act of 15 May 2017 provides that the zone may, in order to more effectively manage its civil security missions, conclude cross-border cooperation agreements with any public authority in a neighbouring country. Therefore, for Belgium no framework agreement is necessary - the law being sufficiently clear. The obstacle seems to be on the French side. The Northern Prefect maintains that a national framework agreement would be required before a French fire department could engage in cooperation with a Belgian rescue zone. I recently learned of this situation of blocking by the governor of Namur province. At the moment, it is impossible to schedule, but the file is being studied in order to find a solution. In any event, I have no objection to negotiating a framework agreement with my French counterpart, if it is necessary because of French regulations.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic770x.u41	Minister, thank you for your answers. You confirm that for routine interventions such as home fires – this is most often the case – the situation is currently a little administratively blocked. On the Belgian side, we have the full capacity to negotiate, but the French authorities claim that a national agreement is needed, something that would not yet be verified. I'll ask you to do it quickly. I no longer know when the Governor's letter is dated, but on the ground, the services are unable to implement a cooperation which seems logical since, for an incident occurring along the border, it should be at the closest service that the intervention fails. Agreements are needed that take into account, inter alia, billing issues. Please check quickly if this framework agreement is necessary and, if necessary, negotiate. The sooner the better.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic770x.u42	Mr President, Deputy Prime Minister, the tragic events of 22 March 2016 have demonstrated a certain fragility of the communication network in the event of a crisis. The terrorist attacks have led to saturation and latency among telephone operators due to the peak in communications. In addition to our fellow citizens, this situation has unfortunately also affected the essential activities of public services and even the links with certain members of the government. To address this problem and provide our country with an infrastructure adapted to the security and technological realities, the ASTRID operator dedicated to emergency and security services now has just over 6,000 secure SIM cards known as Blue Light Mobile. These should make it possible to establish communications and exchange data in exceptional circumstances with the main bodies of the State. This should benefit from the tool discussed by the OCAM boss, the Prime Minister, the officials responsible for State Security, the governors and, of course, the Minister of the Interior. I welcome the acquisition of this new mechanism, which is a pragmatic and concrete response to the difficulties experienced on 22 March 2016. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, could you give us the contours of the tool and its various technical and security benefits? What is the timing of making SIM cards available to beneficiaries? How will these maps be distributed? On what basis? Finally, what is the financial cost of managing this Blue Light Mobile?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic770x.u43	Mr Calomne, ASTRID has launched the Blue Light Mobile service which is a high speed data communications offer in 2014 already! Only one SIM card offers international and national roaming for fast, secure and priority data communications. ASTRID is now launching the second generation of Blue Light Mobile. The attacks of 22 March 2016 showed that there was, among crisis managers in particular, a significant need for voice, individual and priority communications on gsm or Smartphone. All links in the security chain now have a single priority platform for voice and data, i.e. telephone calls and data sending. In short, Blue Light Mobile offers the following advantages: an offer of voice and fast data communications on the three commercial networks in Belgium and eleven networks in neighbouring countries; priority over ordinary users with a total of 6,000 Prior cards guaranteed absolute priority at all times; and data security. This is the result of a successful collaboration between ASTRID, the ASTRID User Advisory Committee, the Crisis Centre, mobile telephone operators, the IBPT and the office of the Deputy Prime Minister in charge of Telecoms, Alexander De Croo. As of November 1, 2017, security authorities and services will be able to phase out the new generation of Blue Light Mobile SIM cards. Prior card users (to date 5,300 out of 6,000) have been identified and listed by the ASTRID User Advisory Committee. Each police service, each fire brigade and medical rescue service, airports, cities, municipalities and provinces, Defence and many other organizations will be assigned, depending on their size, a given number of Priority SIM cards. Each service will be able to distribute them freely within its structure. The Blue Light Mobile service is largely subsidized by the federal level. For the end-user, the fee schedule is based on the favourable rates for mobile communications proposed by the Federal Purchase Office. The user chooses from several customizable subscription formulas. The price starts at 2 euros per month. Communications between Blue Light Mobile users are free of charge. The second generation of Blue Light Mobile has a development cost of 1.5 million euros and operating costs of 500,000 euros per year. These amounts form part of ASTRID's annual allocation as provided for in the management contract.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic770x.u44	Minister, thank you for your comprehensive and accurate answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic770x.u45	Minister, fire brigades are an essential link in the security chain of our countries. The organization of civil security and, moreover, of fire brigades falls within the competence of each State, but of course a major event cannot always be confined within the national borders of a State or an incident, whatever it may be, may take place in the vicinity of a fire brigade, while the barracks are located on the other side of the national border. For example, France and Belgium, like other countries, have concluded bilateral agreements with the aim of organising cross-border cooperation in various fields. As regards cooperation in the context of civil security, the conventions are limited to mutual assistance in the event of disasters or serious accidents. These agreements are therefore not valid for the management of recurring risk and day-to-day interventions. At the Franco-Belgian border, certain geographical areas are closer to a fire brigade located on the other side of the national border than to the barracks closest to the country of the geographical area concerned. However, the closest firefighters cannot intervene without a cooperation agreement. The Belgian Civil Security Act of 15 May 2007 allows rescue zones, in its Article 22, to conclude cross-border cooperation agreements to carry out their tasks more effectively. This type of cooperation agreement could therefore be concluded for the management of recurring risk. Unfortunately, the equivalent legal provision does not exist in France. The Belgian rescue zones and the French Department of Fire and Rescue Services (SDIS) are therefore, by legal vacuum, unable to conclude cooperation agreements for daily collaboration. Like the Franco-Belgian Cross-Border Health Cooperation Agreement, which provides a legal basis, in particular, for the intervention of emergency medical aid services (SAMU) in both countries, it is essential that French SIDS and Belgian relief zones be able to conclude cooperation agreements aimed in particular at covering the recurring risk. The territorial peculiarity of the Picardy Wallonia rescue zone requires the urgent signing of a cross-border agreement with the Northern Fire and Rescue Service for the management of daily risks. Indeed, in some areas the border is not marked and the intervention of barracks on the other side of the national border would significantly improve the protection of the population living in these areas. On 26 September, Emmanuel Macron delivered a speech on Europe at the Sorbonne. Through his words, the French President has marked his ambition to build a strong and collaborative Europe. He spoke about the establishment of concrete security measures and the creation of a European civil protection force, which will pool our resources for relief and intervention. In addition, the ALARM project of the Interreg Belgium-France cooperation programme is fully in line with this approach and aims in particular to improve cross-border cooperation on a daily basis. Finally, the actors on the ground believe that these collaborations seem obvious and easy to implement. All the signals are therefore green to conclude this type of convention. The only thing left is the legal adaptation that makes it possible to achieve them. In France, the general code of local authorities provides that, by decision of the representative of the State, fire and rescue services may intervene outside the limits of their department, through an interdepartmental agreement. I hope that a similar provision will emerge for the limits of national borders. Is the problem I have just submitted known to you? Do you confirm that Article 22 of the Law of 15 May 2007 allowing for the conclusion of cross-border cooperation agreements is sufficient for a Belgian rescue zone to be able to sign an agreement with a French fire and rescue department to cover the risk? Have there been any exchanges with France in order to solve this problem? If so, could you please provide me with further information on the status of a text enabling these conventions to be implemented?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic770x.u46	Mr Delannois, I am indeed aware of this problem because I have just answered questions concerning it. The governor of Namur province recently told me about the situation. I have also been arrested by Mr. Delizée for the Dinaphi emergency zone. As you rightly point out, in the case of firefighters' interventions, cross-border cooperation agreements exist, but for the moment only in the case of disasters or serious accidents. For routine interventions, there is currently no cooperation agreement between a Belgian rescue zone and a French fire zone. However, Belgian legislation allows for the conclusion of such conventions. The Civil Security Act of 15 May 2007 provides that, in order to more effectively manage its civil security missions, the zone may conclude cross-border cooperation agreements with any public authority in a neighbouring country. This principle is reflected in the Royal Decree determining the tasks and tasks of civil security carried out by the relief zones and by the operational units of civil protection in its Article 3, which provides that the zone may use a foreign service in accordance with a cross-border cooperation agreement concluded pursuant to Article 22 of the Law of 15 May 2007. Therefore, for Belgium, the law is sufficiently clear for a rescue zone to conclude a cross-border cooperation agreement. The obstacle comes from the French side. It would appear that a national framework agreement is required before the French fire services can engage in cooperation with a Belgian rescue zone. My administration has therefore contacted the French authorities in order to clarify and unblock the situation. In any event, I have no objection to negotiating a framework agreement with my French counterpart if it is necessary because of French regulations.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic770x.u47	Minister, I have no doubt that you see no inconvenience. It's actually quite surreal. In Tournai, it happens that in some places, you don't know whether you're in France or on the Tournaise entity. I can guarantee that. Even phone networks get lost. It should be borne in mind that in some areas that are really adjacent, French firefighters are involved anyway. As you know, when you're a firefighter, you're immediately rescued. But imagine, if it were to go wrong! In this type of fact, to justify their non-intervention, the assurances would not fail to point out that the firefighter did not have to be present at the scene. Lately, I called President Macron. He replied that he asked his chief of staff to examine the question. It seems to me that he was in the same pattern with a desire to go further. Mr Minister, I expect you and the Belgian Government to exert all the diplomatic pressure, because that is the only way, in my view, to move the situation forward. I can understand some reluctance of the French territorial power when we speak of a police zone this, for a whole series of reasons, even sometimes quite stupid. I can still admit it at the police level. On the other hand, as far as fire services are concerned, no argument can be made against the search for a solution.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic770x.u48	Mr Minister, the European Commission has just released nearly EUR 120 million in the fight against terrorism in order to strengthen the security of public spaces. In this regard, EUR 18.5 million will be earmarked for transnational projects. The majority balance will be used during 2018 to help cities investing in security solutions. Like so many other countries, Belgium has unfortunately been hard hit by terrorism, and the threat persists for all our citizens. This situation involves an important monitoring effort on the part of the various security forces, and the mobilization of all in the vigilance effort. The European Commission's announcement is therefore positive because it should support the measures taken on the ground. Can you shed some light on the content of these transnational projects? To what extent should our country be involved in these efforts? How should State selection and participation in projects be organised? Are you able to provide us with the amount of funds that will be allocated to Belgium to secure its public places? Is a projection already available? What will be the impact of these measures on the capital? What security solutions could be funded with these funds as a matter of priority?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic770x.u49	Mr Calomne, the ISF Police Fund is divided into two parts. Part is managed by the Member States in share management. In this context, Belgium has drawn up a national programme of EUR 20.3 million for the period 2014-2020. A second part is managed directly by the Commission, in direct management. Each year, the Commission publishes an annual programme in which it lists a series of priorities with a budget. Subsequently, these priorities, financed by the Commission, are implemented, either through direct channels, and this is the direct funding by the Commission of European police networks, or through open calls for proposals, to which all Member States can apply. These are transnational actions, i.e. in general projects implemented by at least two Member States, which are 90% financed by the Commission. The action plan to support the protection of public spaces, which emerged from the Commission on 18 October this year, announces the open call concerning the safety of public places. This open call will be open from 26 October to 1 February 2018, for a total amount of 18.5 million euros. Project proposals must be submitted for a minimum amount of EUR 350 000 and a maximum of EUR 3 million. The following four priorities are addressed: "1. Improving the protection of public spaces and other soft targets in line with the EU Action Plan to improve the protection of public spaces; 2. Addressing the issue of security of CBRN materials and agents in line with the EU Action Plan to Strengthen CBRN Security; 3. Enhancing the capacity of Member States' authorities and other stakeholders to implement the Commission Recommendation on the implementation of Regulation 98/2013; 4. Emerging threats to critical infrastructure and public spaces." In addition to the verification of eligibility and eligibility criteria, the Commission shall also verify, when selecting projects, other criteria such as the financial and operational capacity of project promoters, as explained in the attached document. The general timing of the call is as follows: "opening of the call" on 26 October, "deadline for submitting applications" on 1 February at 5 p.m., "evaluation period" from February to June 2018, "information to applicants" in July 2018, "signature of Grant Agreement" in November 2018 and "starting date of the action" in the second half of 2018. After the official "opening of the call", the Belgian services concerned will analyse the opportunity and possibility of transnational cooperation.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic770x.u50	Minister, thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic770x.u51	Question No 21580 by Mr Thiébaut is transformed into a written question. The same applies to question No 21603 by Mrs Jadin.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic770x.u52	Deputy Prime Minister, I come back to a story we had a few weeks ago. On 18 October, I asked you here, in the Committee on the Interior, about the instructions given to local and federal police officers concerning migrants from Maximilian Park and in Brussels more generally, especially near the Gare du Nord. I was wondering if there were any daily quotas for arrests. You had responded fairly dryly, saying, "You must dare to put it down! " Of course I have not imposed quotas on the number of people to be arrested. It's completely stupid to think the same way." You concluded: "For all clarity, since no quota was imposed, the aim of this great action was not to arrest 250 people!" On 28 October, the daily newspaper La Libre Belgique reported on the exchange of electronic messages concerning a preparatory meeting between the various administrations concerned which took place on 4 September. These messages refer to small-scale actions to be carried out between 6 and 15 September 2017. It states – I quote – that "20 to 30 people will be arrested every day." Later, La Libre Belgique states that it reads this sentence – I quote: "On 21 September, a great deal of action will be taken throughout the Brussels sector, during which some 250 people will be arrested." These passages therefore suggest a desire to stop a previously fixed number of migrants. At the same time, interviewed by the Belga agency, a federal police officer who participated in these operations explains that the Office of Foreigners specifies to its various administrations every morning the number of places available in closed centres and in aircraft used for forced repatriation. He adds, I quote the Belga agency: "If we have ten places for Sudan, we focus our efforts on the Sudanese and close our eyes to the ten Romanians next door, for whom there are no places". Minister, finally, were quotas for the daily arrest of migrants set and/or discussed at this coordination meeting on 4 September 2017? Can I have a copy of the minutes of this meeting on September 4, 2017? Could you tell me who, generally, is taking part in these meetings on behalf of the Internal FPS, who for the federal police, who for the Brussels-Capital-Ixelles police zone and who for the Brussels-North police zone? Do members of your firm participate in these meetings? Finally, do you confirm and assume the modus operandi, namely the quotas of nationality and numbers as described in the testimony of the police officer I have just quoted? Are these methods, in your opinion, respectful of the law on the police function? Thank you already for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic770x.u53	Minister, I will not trace the history of the case, as my colleague has done it. So I come to my questions. Are there any PVs at the meetings? If so, can you communicate them to Parliament?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic770x.u54	Mr President, I shall begin by answering Mr Hellings' first and fourth questions. Mr Hellings, I must refer to my answer to your oral question No 20838. Therefore, I will repeat myself once again. I asked the police to avoid, by means of an intensive and multidisciplinary structural approach, a permanent installation of transmigrants in the Maximilian Park and in the Brussels-Nord railway station. At the preparatory meeting held on 4 September in the Brussels-Capital - Ixelles police zone offices, agreements were reached on how to organise the interventions while respecting the above-mentioned framework. As far as Maximilian Park is concerned, operational direction was provided by the local police in Brussels-Capital. In and around the Brussels-Nord railway station, it was carried out by the railway police and the Brussels-Nord zonal police, depending on their respective powers. No minimum target of migrants being arrested in transit in Maximilian Park has therefore been imposed by anyone. It was just the opposite! Maximum capacity can be deployed during any action, inter alia because of the administrative processing procedure which may prove to be relatively long and which must be taken into account during operations – especially when these interventions must be maintained for an extended period of time. Let me turn to your second question, Mr Hellings, and to your first question, Mrs Fernandez. Since this is an operational meeting of the PolBru local police area, it is within the competence of the local administrative authority to decide whether a copy can be made available. This decision is therefore not within my jurisdiction. To answer Mr Hellings' third question, the following services attended the meeting: the Brussels-Capital local police - Ixelles and Brussels-Nord, the Federal Police, the Railway Police, the Federal Judicial Police and his Dirco, the Office of Foreigners, the Brussels Public Prosecutor's Office, the Guardianship Service – namely Justice – and members of my cabinet.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic770x.u55	All this is very nebulous! As I understand it, there are no minimum quotas, but there are many maximum quotas not to be exceeded. At these consultation meetings, which bring together all the bodies you have just mentioned, a maximum number of people who could be arrested is fixed. A number is indeed fixed. On the other hand, you did not answer my question about the testimony of a federal police officer who participated in these operations and who said that the focus was on people from a particular country during the raid. As far as the Minutes are concerned, I understand that you cannot provide it to me yourself, since the operational direction was in the hands of the Brussels-Capital police area - Ixelles. A police adviser from my party asked the question; they simply do not want to give this document. We will need to call on the Federal Commission for Access to Administrative Records to gain access to it. It is essential, if you want to demonstrate that there is no harvest quota at Maximilian Park, to encourage your partners at these consultation meetings to make this document public so that it is clear to all that not all jurisdictions decide to set quotas of number and nationality. These bodies also involve the Brussels-Capital police area - Ixelles, which I think is really problematic.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic770x.u56	Briefly, Minister, and in order to be sure to understand everything: there was no meeting with the police to set quotas at your request or at the request of the Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration? Is that it?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic770x.u57	There was a meeting to organize the operations, but we never set minimum quotas.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic770x.u58	But there was a meeting!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic770x.u59	Yes, but we never set minimum quotas.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic770x.u60	We can't get the VP from the meeting because, according to you, it was an operational meeting. I regret that because, in my opinion, it would have raised questions and doubts. It would have been easier for Parliament to receive this information, but also for you, because when the press relays comments and information given by members of the police, it does not reassure us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic770x.u61	Question No 21697 by Mrs Pas is postponed. Our president, Mr Vermeulen, is apologised. Question No 21745 by Mr Vandenput is forwarded to the Minister of Justice. Question No 21746 by Mrs Lahaye-Battheu is transformed into a written question. Mr. Maingain is no longer present to ask his attached questions Nos. 21758 and 22042. These therefore become moot.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic770x.u62	Mr. Secretary, the VSOA is suing the savings for the maintenance staff of the federal police. For example, the cleaning staff in West Flanders would work with half of the scheduled crew. In addition, they often vouch for the purchase of cleaning material. It can't be that the staff suffers from internal shifts or savings. Every purchase, including garbage bags or detergent, requires the approval of the Treasury Inspector. However, this would cause the orders to drag on abnormally long or give a negative opinion, leading to a declining stock of, and even an increasing shortage of, polish products. The cleaning staff responded by bringing and paying their own products. Minister, cleaning staff deserve a great deal of respect for their work. So let us treat them in this way and ensure that they have the necessary equipment to carry out their work properly. I therefore have the following questions for you. First of all, where exactly does it go wrong with the ordering and delivery of material? Secondly, what is the average duration between the order and delivery? Thirdly, will you, as the Minister responsible, urge the services, for example the Finance Inspector, to speed up the orders that staff need every day? Fourthly, what is your response to the situation presented? Finally, can you confirm that the staff shortage also affects the cleaning staff? What deficits are we talking about? Do you see solutions to the problem?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic770x.u63	Mr. Chairman, Minister, some time ago, you were answering one of my questions about the lack of equipment for new recruits in the federal police. You told me that these were mainly supplier problems and that the matter would soon be dealt with. Since then, there have been reports of similar problems within the police maintenance services. Some housekeepers claim to have to buy the equipment they need to do their jobs themselves. Minister, to your knowledge, are these facts proven? Is the issue affecting both the local police and the federal police? Are the causes the same as for the agents' clothing or is this another problem? Will this problem also be dealt with quickly?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic770x.u64	Mr. President, Minister, in the federal police service, the lack of resources is such that it affects the household staff. In the absence of tea towels, chamoisettes, detergents or garbage bags, cleaning women are sometimes forced to buy these products themselves without being reimbursed, in order to carry out their tasks. At the federal police, purchases are subject to the approval of the financial inspector. They are subject to lengthy administrative procedures which, according to the trade unions, in most cases lead to a negative opinion, thus leaving the staff without the necessary tools to carry out their tasks. The lack of maintenance equipment might seem anecdotal if it did not reflect significant savings within the police to the detriment of quality of life and quality of work. Minister, are the operating savings that affect the work of household workers really necessary and relevant? What measures are being taken to enable household workers to work under correct conditions? In general, what about the lack of resources and staff?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic770x.u65	Mr President, I would first like to answer Mr Top et la première question de M Flahaux's first question. Mr Top, in order to keep the premises clean and healthy, the federal police order various materials and products under the contract FOR/CMS for the maintenance of its buildings. It has a wide range of maintenance products, including detergent for floors, plumbing, descaler, dishwashing products and toilet products, and cleaning equipment, including brushes, tractors for windows, gloves, sponges and garbage bags. Like most commonly used consumer products, these cleaning products are located in the logistics chain and are stored in the central warehouse in Uccle. Federal police units order those products through the logistics chain. The logistics management has not identified any recent delivery breach regarding maintenance equipment and maintenance products intended for and used by the maintenance staff in the complexes occupied by the management, in particular the complexes in Brussels and Etterbeek, and the complexes occupied by the coordination and support boards of Flemish and Walloon Brabant. However, at the level of the CSD West Flanders, there has indeed been a very temporary shortage of certain products, including small garbage bags, toilet paper and towels. The CSD West Flanders informs me that there are generally no concrete shortages of cleaning material. Mr. Flahaux, after checking with the federal police, it appears that there are no major disruptions in the stocks of maintenance products in the federal supply chain. Only the supply of toilet paper and garbage bags was temporarily problematic. The flow is now restored. Mr Top, the reasons for these temporary deficits may be due to the lack of timely reporting of the need to make sufficient appropriations available again, which means that the approval or increase of the appropriations will be delayed before the start of a new market procedure. This is normally solved by distributing the available reserves in the warehouse in a small way so that everyone can move forward or by asking the maintenance staff for their available stock on site to redistribute if possible or if necessary. In extreme need, the federal police try to empty the highest needs through the local purchase. In the case of the CSD West Flanders, communication with the central services in Brussels was not smooth enough. It's a matter of communication between two levels. Under no circumstances should the maintenance staff themselves be responsible for the purchase of the materials and resources. They must polish with the resources made available by the employer. Personal cleaning products should not even be used, under any circumstances. Mr Flahaux, as far as your second question is concerned, the problem mentioned in the press concerns only the federal police. For the local police, each police area is autonomous in its approach to the maintenance of its buildings. Fixed staff, outsourcing and communal staff are decisions taken by the areas themselves, thanks to their budgetary autonomy. As a result, the situation is different from one police area to another. As far as your third question is concerned, I have just answered Mr Top on the causes of the situation at the DCA level in West Flanders. For your question, after an analysis of the situation, it turns out that the problems raised could have multiple causes, some of which are comparable to the causes mentioned for clothing equipment. The causes and reasons may be internal (procedures and ordering tools to be improved, late orders from certain units without taking into account the delivery time), structural (administrative procedures for the release of budgetary appropriations leading to the stock shortage for certain products), external (delivery delays from suppliers since a large part of the orders are made upon the release of the budgets, the quantities ordered from the supplier are large and lead to a delivery time greater than the contractually foreseen), or subjective (some housekeepers prefer to use certain kinds of products rather than others by habit while the two products are equivalent – although these substitutions are formally prohibited, they still occur). Mrs Ben Hamou, let us be clear that the clean-up of the complexes and the related costs have not been the subject of operational savings and the budgets for this item have not been reduced in any way. The personnel responsible for cleaning the complexes shall be trained in this task and shall receive the protective equipment, products and equipment necessary for its proper execution. Personal purchases often made by preference or habit are prohibited. Any lack of products or equipment must also be relayed to the management teams. Mr Top, as far as your second question is concerned, the average time between the order and the delivery of maintenance products varies from two weeks to one month. That period shall include the necessary time limits for the handling of orders with the management of the logistics and the announced and/or the time limits applied by the firm debt holders. Mr. Flahaux, Mrs. Ben Hamou, this case is handled by the Federal Police Logistics Directorate. Steps will be taken to maintain an adequate level of stock at all times to ensure the continued supply of maintenance products and equipment. A stock analysis of stores and products has been initiated to manage orders more efficiently and streamline the use of different maintenance products. Your third question, Mr Top. At my level, there is regular consultation with the Director-General of Resources Management and the Federal Police Information. There are also regular contacts with the Inspector-General of Finance. This involves a good, planned use of resources and efficient management in the purchase of products. At the level of logistics, the federal police are doing everything in their power to keep a sufficient stock, to limit stock breach. For this purpose, an analysis was started at the level of the products and stock in the warehouse, in order to manage orders efficiently and rationalise the use of maintenance products. Your fourth question. Each situation is taken seriously and is the subject of various measures, as set out in my previous answers, as well as in my next answer. Your question about staff shortages in the cleaning staff. In a number of provinces there is a shortage of staff among cleaning staff. An analysis of the situation per complex was transferred to the Finance Inspector so that the necessary budget could be made available. Meanwhile, there is recruitment for West Flanders, Antwerp, Brussels and Liège. The federal police are also working on the analysis that will lead to the creation of a new standard on building cleaning, occupied by the federal police. This standard is currently being prepared and tested. This is the subject of consultation with the various actors involved, in particular the DirCos and those responsible for logistics services and maintenance staff, trade unions and so on. This standard will then be disseminated and applied in all provinces. The aim of this is to determine the needs of cleaning staff from then on a clear and uniform basis. In short, Mrs. Ben Hamou, there is no shortage of resources allocated to cleaning up complexes and purchasing products and equipment for this purpose. We are recruiting maintenance staff to address the shortage of maintenance staff when and where they exist. Calculated in terms of hours per week, several part-time contracts are planned: for West Flanders, plus 177 hours per week, i.e. 11 persons; for Liège, plus 140 hours per week, i.e. 8 persons; for Antwerp, plus 129 hours per week, i.e. 7 persons; for Brussels, plus 95 hours per week, i.e. 5 persons. As I have just told Mr. Top, the revision of the standard for cleaning complexes is under consideration. Outsourcing the maintenance of some isolated buildings is also envisaged.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic770x.u66	Thank you, Minister, for your very comprehensive answer, including on all cleaning products. I am pleased that attention is being paid to this problem. I understand that this was a temporary problem and that greater problems, such as the shortage of staff, are also being looked at in terms of solutions such as the recruitment of new staff. I am pleased that the problems of building cleaning standards per building, case by case, are being resolved. In short, I'm glad I got a decent and a good answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic770x.u67	I would also like to thank the Minister for his particularly concrete response. As a tote, I note that toilet paper is also important for the normal functioning of police officers. I had no doubt that it was not at all a desire to save money on this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic770x.u68	Minister, thank you for your answers. I hear you want to move forward and find solutions. I still note that there is a problem of communication and ordering, a delay due to suppliers. It is sad to see that women in work, already in precarious situations, have to buy their own products. They still do important work to maintain the cleanliness of the police and ensure the well-being of the workers. They deserve to work in good conditions and to be treated with respect. You're talking about outsourcing the cleaning of some police buildings. I wonder how much it's gonna cost. Has a study already been done? What's the timing? Will you come to parliament with this kind of project?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic770x.u69	I do not come to Parliament with such plans, unless you ask me questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic770x.u70	Why didn't you mention it in your project?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic770x.u71	But outsourcing is already practiced.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic770x.u72	You're adding a cost to the federal police.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic770x.u73	If you ask me any questions about that, you'll have the answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic770x.u74	The response was provided and the incident is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic770x.u75	Mr. President, Minister, the federal police have called on Vision-Box, which provides the eGate automatic passport control system at Zaventem International Airport. Software problems extend waiting times to passport checks for passengers arriving at Brussels Airport. Minister, what information do you have about the problems encountered by eGate at Zaventem Airport? What are the consequences for travellers outside the Schengen area? Is the reliability of this system at stake? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic770x.u76	Mr Flahaux, following the notice of the Vision-Box company, two meetings were held recently, in my presence, with the CEO of the firm and the representative of the federal police. During these meetings, the difficulties encountered with eGate were discussed with the eGate supplier and installer. A strict agenda has been agreed between the parties, at the end of which the company must present solutions for the optimal exploitation of eGate. Due to technical problems, the reading function of the Belgian ID card had been deactivated. Belgians who did not have a passport therefore had to submit to manual checks. The problems identified were analysed in depth and solutions were proposed. A new device is currently in intensive testing under real-life conditions in Zaventem. The test is very promising. The replacement of all readers will be completed by mid-December. The specifications for the initial system referred to the control of passports and identity cards. The system installed by Vision-Box only processed passports. At first, we tried to process ID cards as well, but we had to stop immediately because it didn't work. They have now solved the problem. The test is under way, in real-life situations, in Zaventem. Normally, we will have to change all readers by mid-December.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic770x.u77	Minister, thank you. I think your answer is quite complete.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic770x.u78	Minister, an operation against illegal weapons on RN 89 in Bouillon, on the French border, took place on Sunday, 29 October, as part of the fight against illegal weapons. Minister, what is the record of this cooperation between the Belgian police forces and the French gendarmerie? Were any illegal weapons discovered during this check? If so, what type of weapons? Have any wanted persons been apprehended?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic770x.u79	Mr Flahaux, cross-border cooperation, particularly with French police officers, is an indispensable element in the province of Luxembourg in order to combat effectively the various forms of crime. The momentum for collaboration has increased in recent months, given the tragic events that our country and our neighbour have unfortunately experienced. In this regard, my French counterpart has sent me various requests for support in order to strengthen the French police and gendarmerie services during border checks. In this context, in consultation with the French police and gendarmerie services, we have taken the decision to organise regular monitoring operations, either coordinated or joint. In this case, we have taken advantage of a request from our partners to organize this operation at the Ciney Arms Fair, considering that arms trafficking, whether or not linked to terrorism, remains one of our priorities. The results of the cross-border operation of 29 October are as follows: 232 vehicles intercepted, 47 vehicles checked and 32 persons identified. No weapons were discovered during this check. And no wanted person was apprehended.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic770x.u80	Thank you, Minister, for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic770x.u81	Mr. Chair, Mr. Minister, the issue of tattoos for police officers has also recently arisen on the occasion of a Ethics Board. According to the code of ethics, police officers must look neat, non-provocative and non-eccentric. From that point on, it is up to the police areas to adopt regulations that, according to them, comply with this code. The rules therefore change from one area to another, particularly as regards the right to have tattoos or not. In some cases, they are tolerated as long as they are not visible when the police officer wears his regular uniform. Minister, this issue is coming back on a cyclical basis in police areas, are you not considering establishing a clear and unique rule on this issue, especially since police officers are likely to change areas? If so, what kind of policy would you advocate in this regard?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic770x.u82	Mr President, Mr Flahaux, my answer will be brief because the Integrated Police Ethics Commission has been seized and will put this item on the agenda for a future meeting. I hope to receive an opinion on this in the spring of 2018; my decision will follow. With regard to the services of the Internal FPS that fall within my jurisdiction, on the basis of two points contained in the Federal Code of Ethics, namely neutrality and non-discrimination, it is clear that no action is taken against tattooed agents, provided that such tattoos do not carry discriminatory, political or philosophical messages that undermine the trust that the public is entitled to expect from a public official.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic770x.u83	Minister, thank you for this comprehensive response. In fact, the problem lies both in the interpretation of the police code of ethics and in the perception of certain persons. It is clear that an elderly person in rural areas does not have the same perception of a tattoo as a 25-year-old who lives in Brussels or Koekelberg, for example.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic770x.u84	Depends on the type of tattoo.
