ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-13-54-commissie-ic562x.u1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, I welcome in particular all the people we will be hearing this morning in the context of the draft law on the reform of the financing of social security. First of all, I have a number of communications, especially to the members of the committee. Firstly, as far as the report is concerned, we agreed yesterday at the Conference of Presidents to test something out. So it's a scoop. The full report of the hearings will be available on Tuesday, but the hearings will also be recorded and audio and video archiving will be available, starting today, via the Chamber's homepage. If you click further in the right column it will be possible to listen to the hearing again. Secondly, this afternoon Miranda Ulens, federal secretary of the ABVV, will replace Rudy De Leeuw of the ABVV. The employers' organisations have appointed several speakers, but they will allocate their speaking time. Each speaker has been given 10 minutes. Thirdly, Minister Peeters' draft laws will not be discussed next week. These will be postponed to Tuesday 24 January in the afternoon and, if necessary, to Wednesday 25 January. Tuesday morning 24 January at 10 a.m. 30 we will discuss the draft law amending the law of 3 June 2007 on various labour provisions and the law of 13 June 2013 on the implementation and control of the implementation of the Maritime Labour Convention 2006, a bill of State Secretary De Backer, as well as the opinion announced by President Van Quickenborne that we should give to the Infrastructure Committee, on the proposal for a resolution on the extension of the scheme for free commuting by train to all workers. As far as the hearings are concerned, each speaker will therefore have 10 minutes to consider the draft law. I propose to change the order and start with Mr Michel Deffet, because Mr Deffet will give a purely technical explanation. After that, all the other speakers can shed their light on it.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-13-54-commissie-ic562x.u2	First, a very small indication of service. As we unfortunately see, the majority are not in numbers, which I find quite disrespectful of our experts, but finally. For the rest, we have decided anyway because the experts are here and since we have decided not to make a flabbus, I find it important to start our work. Could we at the same time say that on Tuesday we will continue in this calm and respectful perspective and that we will be able to finish it at a reasonable time Tuesday before we continue on Wednesday? We could, for example, at around 6 p.m., finish our work on Tuesday to prepare for next Wednesday. We know that on Wednesday the meeting could possibly be extended.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-13-54-commissie-ic562x.u3	Indeed, I understand from the majority that it is the intention, if we can continue in this sphere, to respond to it, and to continue to work well on Wednesday and to deal with everything at a reasonable time on Wednesday evening. But it is certainly possible to put that back on the table at the beginning of the committee meeting on Tuesday morning. I think the gentlemen's agreement is there to work that way, if we both give and take a little.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-13-54-commissie-ic562x.u4	Madam President, I thank the members of the opposition as well as the opposition group leaders who are also present. I believe that it is best to start our work and that all this is done in the best working conditions possible, given the importance of the subject and the presence of officials from the sector. I believe that the majority will arrive, perhaps there is more snow in their communes. In any case, I thank the members of the opposition if we can start our work in this spirit.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-13-54-commissie-ic562x.u5	Madam President, at the request of a number of people, this hearing was held today. It was indeed agreed, since this is not normally a committee day, that there would certainly not be any filibustering or statement that one is not in number. Thank you, Mrs Onkelinx. As far as next week's work is concerned, it is true that we said that it would take place on Tuesdays and Wednesdays, but we do not really have a single item, and here I would like to nuance, Mrs Onkelinx, at which time we would conclude on Tuesday. If it is progressing well, we may be able to stop at 6 p.m. or 7 p.m. or even earlier. However, if we see that it is making very bad progress, it may also be that we decide to continue, because otherwise we will not be able to get there on Wednesday. The intention is to ensure that next week we can complete the draft law at first reading. With this agreement that we have concluded, we will look at next Tuesday and Wednesday until what time we will continue to work. I think it's hard to fix us at a certain hour today.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-13-54-commissie-ic562x.u6	We will talk about this again Tuesday morning. Let us be clear, we are here as part of a gentleman's agreement. If we feel that it is not respected by the majority, we will do what has already been heard in the past, for example when Mr. De Croo had read the book. It was not very interesting, but he did so to show his disapproval with the progress of work imposed by another majority. I don't want to get to that, but then you have to be right in both directions. Let us now turn to the most important thing, namely to listen to the opinion of the experts on social security, which is our common good.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-13-54-commissie-ic562x.u7	I now give the floor to Mr Deffet.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-13-54-commissie-ic562x.u8	Madam President, a little word first to introduce me. The department in which I work within the Social Security FPS is responsible for consolidating and monitoring social security budgets and accounts. It provides information to the government, the Institute of National Accounts and Eurostat, among other things, and participates in the budget-making process. Together with other institutions, including ONSS, INAMI and INASTI, we have been consulted on several occasions in the development of this bill. First of all, I would like to say that the reform of the financing of social security is necessary for a number of reasons. One, on 1 January 2015, the sixth reform of the State entered into force and, with it, an important package of social security powers was transferred to the Regions and the Communities. In the social security budget, this resulted in the disappearance of the expenditure corresponding to the transferred competences while, on the revenue side, no change was made, except that the balance allocation which had been introduced in the period 2012 to 2014 ceased to exist. The result of all this was an artificial bonus in 2015 and 2016 in the health care budget and in that of the two global managements. These bonuses have been corrected by the government by a flat-rate reduction in the financing of health care through global management, on the one hand, and the alternative financing of the two global managements, on the other hand, from VAT. Such a situation cannot, of course, continue indefinitely, and a review of funding is therefore required. Secondly, alternative funding for social security was created a long time ago, in 1993, if I am not mistaken. Over time, it has evolved both in terms of the level of the amounts granted and in terms of the number of revenue or expenditure measures it aims to offset, as well as in terms of the number of sources. It became so complex that it was necessary each year to make some 20 royal decrees before it could be granted in the course of the year the amounts due which were included in the budget. Simplification is therefore necessary here too. Since 2010, the social partners have made proposals and the need for a revision of the financing of social security following the sixth reform of the State is therefore an opportunity to also implement a simplification of alternative financing according to the wishes of the social partners. Third, the government agreement provides for the reintroduction of a balanced staffing system after evaluation of the old system. The old system was to calculate an amount so as to balance the social security budget as a whole, i.e. according to the scope of the national accounts, and to allocate 90 % of that amount to the overall management of employees and 10 % to the overall management of the self-employed. This system was not without certain perverse effects. For example, it took into account, given the scope, the amount of pensions from the local government pool already financed by the pool's reserves. It did not take into account the capital transactions, in particular the repayment of the loan that ONSS had contracted in 2010. Its distribution by means of a theoretical key 90/10 resulted in leaving a deficit in the scheme of employees and granting a bonus in the scheme of the self-employed. Finally, only half was paid in twelfth and the other half was granted only at the end of November, resulting in cash flow problems for ONSS. The proposed new system aims to balance the overall management budget of ONSS with that of INASTI separately. And take into account the repayment of the loan to ONSS. The total balance allocation will be paid in the twelfth year, which will improve cash management at both NSSO and NASTI. Finally, the government has a system of accountability. Under this system, the amount will only be calculated after the government has reviewed six accountability factors and, where appropriate, taken corrective action. In practice, this means that the amount is calculated after budgetary conclave and, in any event, the law explicitly states that the amount is calculated in such a way that there will be no bonus or mali. The new funding system can be summarized very briefly. For the two global managements of employees and the self-employed, there will be two alternative financings, one from VAT and the other from the household discount, which will be expressed as percentages of the revenue of VAT and of the household discount, respectively, and which will be increased in the period 2017-2020 by amounts intended to offset the tax shift. After 2020, tax shift increases will be incorporated into the base percentages. In addition, a new lump sum grant is set, which is indexed annually, and there is a possibility of adaptation following the ageing of the population. And finally, the new funding therefore provides for a balance. For health care, there is first an upgrade of the amounts financed by the general means of the two global managements following the transfer of certain expenses to the federated entities. A temporary link of these amounts to the index rather than to the rate of increase in contributions during the tax shift period. And finally, for health care there is the abolition of the alternative financing which was paid directly to INAMI, namely that for hospitals and that coming from tobacco excises, which are absorbed by the alternative financing covering the balance to be financed from the health care sector. Finally, I would like to end with a word about the Finance Budget Committees. There has always been a Finance Committee within ONSS which brings together once a month the financial services of all the public social security institutions (IPSS) to examine all the financial flows which must be carried out the following month in order to ensure the payment of all social benefits on time. The government has decided to incorporate new tasks into this commission, to rename it Finance Budget Committee and to create a similar one within INASTI. The purpose of these new tasks is to conduct monthly monitoring of social contributions and benefits in comparison with the budgetary path defined by the government and to identify the factors explaining the differences which may arise: for example, volume effects, acceleration of inflation or measures not yet implemented. Here, Madam Chair, this concludes my introductory statement.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-13-54-commissie-ic562x.u9	Thank you, Mr. Deffect. I would now like to give the floor to Mrs Anne Léonard of the CSC.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-13-54-commissie-ic562x.u10	Thank you for the opportunity given to trade union organisations and experts to clarify the underlying issues of this bill on the financing of social security. I invite you to endorse the last opinion which was delivered by the social partners to the Management Committee for December and also the White Paper which was published on 2 January. It is, of course, within this framework that my intervention is integrated. In view of the time allotted, I will not repeat all the considerations which have been the subject of both the opinion and the white card, but I am sure that we will complement each other in order to be able to give the most important points of thought. For the CSC, and for all trade union organisations, it is clear that social security and all of its sources of funding must both respond to mechanical increases that can be expected. I take as an example the incapacity for work and pensions, but at the same time the financing of social security must also be able to respond in a sustainable and stable way to the societal challenges and social protection needs of society. And so it is well marked by these beacons that the trade unions today issue several considerations on the bill that is on the table. With regard to alternative financing, the bill reduces its sole source of reserve funding for tobacco excise duties. It is probably unnecessary to recall here, in this chamber, that excise duties on tobacco do not reach the revenues expected by the government, in 2016 at 1.5 billion and in 2017 at 2.4 billion. The question is, therefore, whether to reduce itself as reserve alternative financing only to tobacco-related excise duties. It is our role as a trade union organisation and as a manager in social security to ensure that this reserve is sufficient and provides a source of funding to meet needs. The second consideration with regard to alternative financing is related to return effects. The bill indicates a full compensation for the net cost of ONSS decreases, but on the calculation and methodology of returns effects, two remarks. It is not taken into account that some funding channels have not yet been partially or fully implemented. The European Commission says that the tax shift has not yet been fully covered. This means that in these feedback calculations, non-realization is not taken into account and the measurement is assumed to be in full performance, in full performance. That is a first remark. The second point is, of course, very often that the return effects are greatly overestimated and only positive returns are taken into account, not the return effects which will be borne by social security, for example, by a return to work. This means that in the long run we will come to a structural deficit in social security. That is why, on the calculation and methodology of returns, we are asking, as social partners, to be able to always be coordinated or to consult with the Planning Office in order to be able to agree on the calculation and the parameters and methodology that are put in place and to be able to have an annual follow-up of these calculations. With regard to the factors of accountability, it is obviously in a context, which I have mentioned, of not taking into account mechanical increases in expenditure, in a context of budgetary approximations, whether it be revenue, expenditure or return effects, but also in a context of societal challenges which are completely eluded from the debate on the financing of social security as it is now being conducted, that the government institutionalizes accountability factors for the social partners. The social partners, who are mentioned here as the only ones responsible for so-called slippages or non-realisation of budgetary savings in social security. I give only one recent example to allow you to appreciate the debate in pensions, the private sector, about regularisation of years of study and the introduction of a transitional period in order to achieve harmonisation with the public sector. The social partners, in a part of their unanimous negative opinion, stressed the significant additional effects on the budget in the pension sector. The question now is what follow-up the government is going to give to this opinion. Will it maintain this measure despite the recommendation of all the social partners that in the long term it is a major expenditure in the pension sector and therefore for social security? If this is the case, should the social partners be the only actors in the social security system to bear the responsibility for it, since the government, for the time being, only wants to assume the responsibility of constantly reducing expenditure on social security, without increasing its revenue? Because the bill institutionalizes the fact that social security will pay the costs every year, every budget, every budget conclave, political arbitrage, social security is therefore a real variable of budgetary adjustment. Of course, the idea that full responsibility lies with the social security itself and the social partners is unacceptable to us. What about the responsibility of the State, for example in relation to tax revenues? Another element I wanted to discuss with you is the instability of funding. Indeed, with regard to balance staffing, the bill only temporarily commits the government for four years. The balanced allocation is intended to ensure the budgetary balance of social security. The bill therefore does not bring about a complete sustainability of the funding system, but here too, with regard to balance staffing, it leads to instability rooted in the law as well as, for the reasons I have just mentioned, alternative financing, the ageing factor, which will most certainly be addressed by other experts and the accountability elements. All of these factors lead to instability in funding. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that nothing in the text of the bill assures us that the balance of the budget through balanced staffing will be guaranteed neither now nor in the future. However, it is a fundamental requirement that social security be strengthened, not weakened, in order to meet the major current and future challenges and that it cannot be suspended from the publication of a royal decree in four years' time. With regard to the Committee on Finance and the Budget, it is clear that the creation of this committee is, for us, an important infringement of the very principle of social consultation. Indeed, the bill sets a direct report from the Finance and Budget Committee to the government and not to the social partners in their role as managers on management committees, while the government is also represented on these management committees. So if we cannot provide for the Finance and Budget Committee to report directly to the Management Committee, then let us ensure that the social partners are involved in this committee to ensure that social security can meet its societal challenges. I would like to draw attention to the fact that this would not be a novelty in social security since this technique already exists in the INAMI where the social partners are represented in the CCD. That is for the few elements of reflection that I wanted to give you today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-13-54-commissie-ic562x.u11	Thank you very much, Mrs. Leonard. Now it's Mr. Tamellini's turn of the FGTB-ABVV.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-13-54-commissie-ic562x.u12	Thank you, Madam President. Thanks for the auditions. I do regret that the majority is not in number. In any case, I thank those who are present for listening. I hope there is a will to be able to hear what we are saying today. I would also like to thank the other members of the opposition for continuing to carry out this fight, which is essential for the interests of the workers, the social beneficiaries, but also for the cohesion of the country. I'm gonna get out of my text. I apologize to my collaborator. I'm really sorry, Anne, but it's to avoid repeating things and because actually, we're talking about the same voice on the union bench. But I know that there will be subsequent hearings that will go in that direction as well. I will concentrate on the three elements that seem to us the most essential, in any case that completely distort the model of security that we have always defended. I will transmit this text. It's not for nothing, Anne, that you did the job. Don't worry. The text incorporates the essential elements, it really reflects the details of our willingness to work together. Of course, I will take back the substance of what will be transmitted to you as a text. I would also like to say that this is no coincidence. These are not small arrangements between friends or anything that makes the arguments that we put on the table and defend today overlap, intertwine and ultimately go in one direction, in any case at the union and mutual level. Here, these are the arguments of the historical founders of the security. These are the arguments of those who helped strengthen it in line with the original goals for which social security was created after the Second World War. It is therefore no coincidence that we have strong elements to repeat today and to make it heard. They've already been heard in some places. It is hoped that this debate today will lead us to fundamental changes in this project which, for us, undermines the continuation of our social security as we know it today. The initial objectives of the founders of social security and which, for us, constitute the cement of this social security, is that social security is an insurance against the hazards of life, a solidarity insurance which allows for strong social protection. The objectives are also the fight against inequality and the risk of poverty. That is what the security authorities are also looking for. But also, as I said and will come back to it, social security ensures strong social cohesion within the country. Anne mentioned it. We have delivered a partly unanimous opinion at the level of social security, thus employers and trade unions in part unanimous on a number of points. In any case there is a will to regulate the famous cuckoo eggs, these elements that have nothing to do with the securit and that were at the charge. I think that is a positive element, and it was pointed out that we are actually moving in the right direction. We've been asking for it for years. A number of things have indeed been clarified about the sixth reform of the State. These were essential elements. We took them back. Unfortunately, there are other elements which, in the unanimous opinion that has been handed over to the management of the securitisation, have not been taken up, in particular on the allocation of balance. There was a unanimous opinion calling for legislation to be put into effect and for the continuation of the State's supplementary subsidy to cover any shortfalls in the security system. We had a unanimous position on that. This was not followed. Beyond the elements that were not included in the unanimous opinion, there are three points which, for us, are essential. Anne mentioned them, but I'm going to put a diaper back to show how important it is. I always come back to the risk of getting out of the original objectives of social security. The first element is the accountability mechanism. Who still dares to say today that the unemployed are not responsible? With the exclusions that one sees, with the systematic checks, with the availability of the pre-pensioners that were again discussed at the IPA, who can still say today that the unemployed are not responsible? Who can still say today that patients are not responsible in this country when we see cuts in health care, when we see the price of drugs, as if we were taking antibiotics like M&M's? Accountability is systematically carried out at the level of the sick. A worker who is affected by asbestos and to whom we are going to say that it is not an occupational disease "because you have smoked and therefore we do not know whether the cause is asbestos, you are responsible". Who can say that there is no accountability? Who can say that pensioners – Anne has cited elements – are not responsible when we know that in Belgium, we have the strictest conditions in Europe to have a full pension? You work 40 years, you have 40/45ths of your pension. There are already accountabilities at all levels of the securitized branch. This so-called accountability mechanism or then super-accountability, it is not an accountability mechanism, it is a mechanism of correlation between the deficits of the state that have nothing to do with the security and with the financing of the security. This, of course, undermines the entire financing of the security sector. This undermines the initial objectives which we have set ourselves together to have this insurgency character of social security. This is a major factor which causes us to have a serious problem with this correlation which is made between deficits coming from elsewhere and an impact which we would have on the guarantee that social security would no longer be just a variable of budgetary adjustment, which, of course, I would like to go back to that, is moving us 3 000 km away from the original objectives of social security. In addition, complicated discussions on a PIA project are emerging. We're trying to give meaning to a number of things. In the bill, it is simply said that any social agreement negotiated in G10, negotiated in the National Pension Committee or I don't know where, should be balanced through social security. This means that we have agreed with employers on a number of points on pre-pensions and I am told: "Well, no, we're going to have to balance through security". We are told about the penitibility that there is an envelope of 40 million euros. If we can demonstrate that there is an impact on the health of workers and that this exceeds EUR 40 million, well, it is the security that will have to reduce the allowances for this or that. We have a serious problem with this instrumentalisation and this securitisation which becomes a variable of budgetary adjustment. It is the central point of our criticisms that we hope to be positive criticisms in order to make clear that the security must keep its original objectives and that we must keep this cohesion at the level of workers and at the country level. The second element, at the level of the classical endowment, is this famous ageing coefficient. It is natural that conventional staffing can evolve. It is normal to take into account the ageing of the population, but to condition this traditional allocation which must ensure this overall funding of social security, to a coefficient which says that if we do not increase the departure of the labour market by six months every year, and although we do not have an additional amount for the traditional allocation, this condition is untenable. How long? What are the criteria? That is why I think it is legitimate to be able to have a clear method on these elements, to be able to clarify what we want and not to untenablely condition this traditional allocation. Finally, it has been said, but I repeat it because it is an essential problem, it is this non-compensation of the tax shift. We have to see what's going on, we have to look at the numbers. All those who are present in the overall management of the securitisation see that there is a hole that is not filled at the level of alternative financing because of the tax shift. We know that very well. That is a budgetary logic. These are not even ideological arguments. This is a budgetary accounting logic. The perversion here is to say that by 2021, we're going to blur the leads. We're going to say that basic alternative financing and tax shift-related alternative financing, we're going to mix them up. What's going on behind this? It is simply a question of scrambling the tracks so that we can say that if there is a problem with alternative financing, we will no longer be able to say that it is the tax shift because we have mixed things up. The solution that will come is that VAT must be increased, that such excise duty must be increased and that it is counterproductive. This problem is also an essential problem. Total non-compensation at the tax shift level and the lack of traceability of tax shift funding sources is an important element. In conclusion, for us, the tax shift project as formulated is an important element. We really hope that there will be substantial changes on at least these three points. This project puts social security under control, implements it and removes it from the original objectives of social security. I repeat, the assurant nature, the indispensable social protection, the solidarity mechanism, and also – and I stress on this point – the bill as formulated – I hope that all members of the majority at least are aware of it – creates, for me, for the FGTB, the basis for a split of the security over time. This element of cohesion, the last cement of the Federal State, resides in particular in the level of social security. This bill, as formulated, creates the basis for a division of this cohesion. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-13-54-commissie-ic562x.u13	Thank you very much, Mr. Tamellini. Now I would like to give the floor to Mrs Anneleen Bettens, of the VBO.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-13-54-commissie-ic562x.u14	Good morning. Thanks for inviting me. I have agreed with my colleague from Unizo, Caroline Deiteren, to give a presentation together, in the name of both the VBO and Unizo and the UCM. My colleague Caroline Deiteren will begin. So, if you will allow me, I will give the floor immediately to my colleague.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-13-54-commissie-ic562x.u15	Thank you. We have put our speaking time together in order to bring you a coherent story. We will review the various chapters of the draft law. I will also mention a number of specific points concerning the self-employed. However, we have a practical problem. We had prepared a powerpoint presentation, but nothing appears on the screen outside the first sheet. So you'll have to listen to us very carefully. I should like to begin by explaining the history of this draft law, because we regard it as an important transposition of what the social partners have been asking for a long time, jointly, both in the employment system and in the self-employed system. Since the sixth state reform was decided, we have felt within the overall management that this state reform should be neutralized in terms of the financing of social security. A large package of expenditure went out of the overall management system, and if we did not adjust the financing, that would mean that we actually have over-financing compared to the expenditure that was still in the global management system. Due to the fact that a number of expenditures were also taken away from the RIZIV, it was also important to adjust the financing of the RIZIV, because this was completely ruined. The relationship between the intervention of global management in the financing of the RIZIV and the public intervention was disrupted, which caused us to find a number of anomalies in that funding and made the whole monitoring of the social security budget opaque and unobservable to anyone. To give an example, one day the newspapers were opened up and it was said that social security had made a historical surplus of 3 billion and the other day the newspaper said that suddenly there was a deficit of more than half a million. It changed from quarter to quarter, also because alternative financing of VAT was used as a closing point to keep social security in balance. Due to different evolutions it was impossible to follow at all, nor could one compare with the situation before the sixth state reform. In order to resolve this lack of transparency and budgetary instability, we, as social partners, have jointly asked for the sixth state reform in the financing of social security to be neutralized. We have also taken the opportunity to propose a simplification exercise and to combine the almost innumerable sources of alternative funding for different measures and to reduce the different sources of funding to three, etc. That wasn't new. This had been proposed a while ago by the social partners, including in a July 2010 report. We put all this together in a new opinion of July 2015 in the overall management of employees. We have done the same in the overall management of the self-employed. That opinion has been transposed in its entirety in the government's draft law. A number of additional items were added, but they do not change the essence. That is why this draft law is very important for the social partners, at least for the employers' bank and self-employed organisations, and we insist that it be implemented quickly so that we can simplify the social security budget very quickly and make it more transparent and understandable.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-13-54-commissie-ic562x.u16	As Caroline said, we will review the bill by chapter, starting with alternative funding. We already issued an opinion in July 2015 asking the social partners to make alternative funding sound, simple and stable. The draft law before us today responds to this concern. There is, on the one hand, a split into alternative financing for a basic amount, i.e. compensation for reductions in contributions from before the tax shift. On the other hand, there is the alternative financing of the tax shift itself. It is important that both amounts are registered in the law. There is a guarantee that the tax shift will be financed for social security up to 2020. This takes account of net payback effects. That is a very important element. It's not just about the positive payback effects. The fact that the burden is reduced means that there is job creation, income increases in social security and cuts in expenditure on unemployment. Those are the classic payback effects. The Planning Bureau has also taken into account negative effects. In the context of the tax shift, certain taxes are also increased. That will have a negative impact. That will be charged. It is indeed about net payback effects, which is a very positive thing. However, we have asked together with the workers' organizations for information to be consulted. I understand that the government has taken this to heart and that it will follow a request for advice addressed to the Central Council for Business, together with the National Labour Council, which will allow further consideration and, where appropriate, fine-tune with the Planning Bureau. I believe that there is a very important added value here of the expertise of the Planning Bureau, where we can follow up together with the Planning Bureau. Very important, the guarantees are registered in the law, but are not so compromised that they cannot be adapted. The amounts may be adjusted in the light of any developments. That is very important, because that also provides an answer to our demand for a final alternative financing. Alternative funding can and will be adjusted, if necessary. Secondly, we asked for simplification. There used to be different items of alternative financing. We have asked for it to be limited to two sources and a reserve source. My colleague was already accusing me of the fact that the reserve source would be insufficient. In fact, we have asked together whether the reserve source for tobacco would be adequate. We must, however, make an important comment. In the past, it was found that the reserve source used at that time was insufficient. However, that was really at the time of a system crisis. Today, the financing of social security has been organised in a very different way, which must of course also be taken into account. The worst case scenario is not likely to happen so quickly. We, as social security managers, obviously have the question of being informed. We will therefore, together with the National Social Security Office, the FPS Finance and the FPS Social Affairs Department, carry out additional studies on this in order to assess to what extent the reserve funding source needs to be changed and to what extent it is sufficient to cope with such worst-case scenarios. We now come to the classic state allowance. It is important to ensure that the classic national grant is legally guaranteed and that sustainable financing is introduced. Indeed, the classical national allowance is indexed together with the health index, which ensures that its financing is stable and independent of the economic context. In fact, there is the famous ageing coefficient, which is a surplus and something extra, which can be an additional funding if two conditions are met, namely sufficient economic growth and an increase in the effective retirement age. The important thing is that we are in favour of this system, because it can be an incentive to develop a responsive end-of-life policy. We are aware that these two parameters still need to be worked out and that this will not be an obvious matter. As a social partner, we are certainly prepared to contribute to the implementation of these two parameters. It is also important to stress that our demand for a balanced settlement is also met. The balancing dose is guaranteed, as defined in the law, until 2020. An evaluation will then be carried out and, where appropriate, the amount will be adjusted. There is already the guarantee that the equilibrium dose will be extended, in the same form or in another form. The aim is to restore transparency and to be responsive. It is important that each system, system of employees and system of self-employed workers be considered separately, in a way that is not created in either system of Boni or deficit. Here, too, there is a guarantee in the legislation that balancing is indeed a final source of funding for the social security of workers. In the past, this amount was committed once a year. It is foreseen that recalculations will be carried out several times a year. This, too, is an advantage for the social security system. It provides more guarantees for the workers' system. The response factors seem to us to be no more than normal. This is in line with normal budgetary negotiations. We do not believe that the fear that they would only act as a response to the social partners is unfounded. They are equally responsive to the government, which draws up its budget. They are also without prejudice to the balance of the overall management of RSZ with regard to the dotation of equilibrium.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-13-54-commissie-ic562x.u17	As far as the overall management of the self-employed is concerned, we have a similar analysis. Here too, the general management committee for the self-employed initiated the reform, which is similar to that of employees in the draft law. We therefore consider the draft law to be positive. There are a number of specific aspects. We note with satisfaction that the tax shift has been financed up to 2020, but also thereafter, by combining the percentages of basic funding. With the financing of the tax shift, funding will be guaranteed afterward. Improvements to the social status are also foreseen for the self-employed. You will remember that the minimum pensions for employed and self-employed persons have recently been brought into line. For the self-employed, this meant an important cost for global management. This cost has been included in the reform of social security funding. It is also specific to the self-employed that the relationship between alternative financing and state grant has been adjusted. In the past, the national allowance for the self-employed had a greater weight than the alternative financing. There are also no reductions in the social status covered by alternative funding. We have aligned the relationship between alternative financing and state aid to the workers' system, so that the evolution of these two different sources of funding in the future would also be consistent in order to strike a balance with the workers' system. In principle, we have a positive assessment of the ageing coefficient for the state grant, although we do have a commentary on it. The age of self-employed workers is different from that of employees and cannot always be treated in the same way. The self-employed person is already leaving today much later than the employee. We must keep this in mind when working out the various parameters. The most delicate thing for the self-employed is the dotation of equilibrium. This system will change significantly in a number of respects compared to the past. In our view, the temporality of the dosage of equilibrium is not such a major problem in itself. In the past, the equilibrium dose was also temporarily or not forever laid down in the legislation. We are confident that there will be a rebalancing after 2020. However, what is important in the changes that exist is that the balance was previously calculated on the balance for the whole of social security across the various global managements, i.e. employees and self-employed persons, and that out of that amount 10% went to the self-employed and 90% to the employees. Because the shortage of workers was traditionally much greater, both in absolute numbers and relative, than in the self-employed, it meant much for the self-employed and actually led to surpluses in the social status of the self-employed, whereas that situation led to the workers actually having to give up part of their dotation to the self-employed, which meant that they had a rather small deficit in their accounts, but still a deficit. This system will be abandoned and, in future, the balance will be ensured by global management. For the self-employed, this means that there will no longer be any large surpluses on the social status. For us, however, it was very important that the 90 %/10 % distribution of the balance of global management should be maintained in principle in the texts. Why? You may know that self-employed workers account for 16% of the working population. They have a social system which is far more sober than that of the workers. In this respect, it is bizarre that they receive only 10% of the funding in terms of social security funding, which is already an underestimate of their share of the labour force, but which is, of course, the result of their more austere status. For this reason, it was important to reflect that ratio of 90 %/10 % somewhere in the texts as a sign of public respect for the social status of the self-employed. The texts therefore state that the balance of payments due to the self-employed will always be 1/9 of the balance of the workers, but if this balance results in a surplus in the social status of the self-employed, it will actually be returned to the Treasury. This is a symbolic and fundamental operation which is important for the social status of the self-employed and the self-employed. This has prompted the Management Committee for Self-Employed to give a positive opinion. Now, therefore, as far as accountability is concerned, we are making a similar analysis. In itself, we find it very positive that we do not automatically adjust the deficit in social security without looking at the reasons for the deficits and whether all the measures that have been decided in the past by governments have been implemented in different budgetary conclaves and various budgetary controls, which is the result. So it seems to us to be only positive that this will be followed more closely in the future, on the condition that this is done, and it is also literally stated in the texts that the balance of systems will always be guaranteed. In this context, it is also very important to stress once again that the financing of social security does not in itself have a direct link with social rights. So the social security institutions are financed on the basis of their needs. In the case of the self-employed, too, all social rights continue to go through, of course, but if there was a shortage of overall management, this would mean that global management would have to take out a loan somewhere to meet the legal commitments to pay benefits. That in itself has a cost of paying interest. That is why it is not at all useful and absolutely necessary to avoid deficits in the financing of social security. This in itself does not have a direct impact on the rights, it simply entails additional costs because one has to pay interest on those loans. It is therefore important to ensure balance in the two global managements. That is also what is anchored and committed in the bill. Let me just say a word about the RIZIV. Here, too, the social partners have proposed an important reform of funding in their opinion. Now, in the past, there was an agreement made by predecessors of mine, which has been explained to me, that in the financing of health care, a ratio has been agreed between what global management contributions contribute and what the treasury contributes, because health care goes far beyond purely employees and self-employed. So it has a wider scope. Sometimes the government makes certain decisions leading to additional expenditure in health care that the social partners have no impact on. That's why an affair has been agreed. This ratio is reflected in the so-called paragraph 1a and paragraph 1a. The paragraph 1a contribution actually means that global management is responsible for a certain percentage of RIZIV funding and paragraph 1quater is the part of the government that comes with it. This does not go directly to the RIZIV, which first goes through alternative funding to the global management it then transfers to the RIZIV. The relationship between paragraph 1a and paragraph 1a was completely distorted by the state reform. As expenditure had disappeared at the RIZIV, the needs of the RIZIV were much lower than before the state reform, with the result that the contribution from paragraph 1a was well enough to cover RIZIV's expenditure and even became negative from 1quater. The government didn't have to contribute anymore. The RIZIV expenditure was fully covered by the contributions of the Global Financial Management. In short, the ratio had become distorted, and it had to be restored. That's what we did. We have re-entered the pre-state reform ratio into the legislation, so that funding for health care is once again a shared responsibility for the Global Financial Management and the Treasury. The impact of the tax shift on contributions also had to be neutralized because the contributions of the Global Financial Management, i.e. those of paragraph 1a, evolve according to the evolution of the contributions of the revenue of the global management. . The reduction of contributions as a result of the tax shift would, of course, mean that contributions from the Global Financial Management to health care would also automatically fall. That was not the intention, so that impact had to be neutralized. That's what happened. We have also introduced simplification, which is, of course, budget-neutral. We have abolished the direct alternative financing of RIZIV for hospitals and others. Everything is now done through the Global Financial Management, with VAT as the only source of alternative funding. This is a modest simplification of the very complex budget of the RIZIV. I come to the final point. What did we ask for in our July 2015 opinion? We asked for an amendment to the so-called paragraph 1b. Paragraph 1b provides that when the standard is exceeded in health care, part is paid by the sickness funds and part is managed by the global body. This posed the social partners with the problem of the situation before the reform of social security funding. Why? Following the closure of the accounts of the year, it would be established that the standard for health care had been exceeded, and an additional invoice would go to global management, which was not covered by certain revenues. That invoice came after the end of the year, and meanwhile the alternative financing had already been calculated according to the normal parameters and the equilibrium dose had already been established from the time of the prefiguration. So there would be a gap that was not covered by the funding. If this happens several years in a row, there will be a snowball effect, with increasing expenditure not covered by funding. How's that going? This expenditure will be incurred, but global management must be borrowed to cover that expenditure and interest must be paid on it. These are all costs for the death home, so to speak, which are not necessary. For this reason, we have asked the social partners to do something about it, by adapting that paragraph so that there would be funding to cover the overrun which would come from global management. In the new situation of social security reform, the need for this adjustment has disappeared. In fact, the mechanism of the equilibrium dose has been adapted. From now on, balance will be determined by pre-figuration, but will also be recalculated every quarter in budgetary control, in order to ensure that the balance in the two global managements is guaranteed. That wasn't the case in the past. In the past the equilibrium dose was recorded and nothing was changed, no matter what happened during the year. This could therefore lead to a deficit or surplus for global management. That will not be the case in the future. Assuming that the standard in health care would be exceeded, that bill comes to the mutualities, who have to accept their responsibility, and partly to the global management. The global management will then pay that invoice by adjusting the equilibrium dose. The concerns of the social partners have been met in this respect.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-13-54-commissie-ic562x.u18	Finally, I would like to say a word about the monitoring that is being carried out. The Commission on Finance and the Budget has just been set up. In fact, these committees are not so much set up, because these committees already exist today in the global administration, but they are being reformed and they are manned by experts from the public institution Social Security and the federal administrations. We are in favour of setting up this committee, because it will be able to keep an eye on expenditure and revenue, which they will be able to achieve through a monthly follow-up. The committee will also notify when it is established that there are risks of derailment. This warning will, of course, also be reported to the social partners. Both within the respective management committees and within the global management committee, the social partners will be involved and informed and, where appropriate, consulted or informed. We believe that this is a positive measure, so that we, as social partners, can also be objectively informed about developments in social security. We believe that this can effectively add value to the preparation of budgets, to the preparation of discussions and to the follow-up of social security and its evolution. We shall now come to the end of our speech. I repeat what was said at the beginning. This draft law answers the questions we asked as social partners in July 2015. This draft law guarantees the financing of social security and enables the management of the treasury within the social security system to continue in a positive way.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-13-54-commissie-ic562x.u19	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for this invitation. I will divide my speech into two points. The text presented to us here to reform the finances of social security is very important and can completely change the way we manage social security. The reform of social security finances appears to be very positive at first sight. Simplification was indeed necessary. It was also necessary to adapt to the state reform, as well as a certain degree of stability. These are objectives that we can only underline. However, there are two major changes which are really going to affect the way in which we manage social security in the future. For us, this can really lead to a significant decline, due to structural underfunding. My first point concerns responsibility, which is used as a guide to make some adjustments to the law. Of course, social security is managed today on the basis of consultation, joint management and responsibility. I'm a member of the Health Insurance Board, the General Board and the Insurance Committee. Since 1995, we have been applying a mechanism of financial responsibility. This financial responsibility is based, among other things, on a Committee on Budgetary Control, to which the Minister for Social Affairs refers for this reform. The Committee on Budgetary Control has three tasks. I mention these three tasks because we do find them in the Finance and Budget Committee, which is now being added to the law. First of all, the Committee on Budgetary Control must monitor expenditure, see if there is indeed a deviation. Secondly, it must inform the Insurance Committee and the General Council and encourage corrective measures. Thirdly, the Committee on Budgetary Control is being questioned about the reality of the budget being presented. We therefore find here three important tasks of the Committee on Budgetary Control which are re-established in this law, i.e. the Committee on Finance and the Budget. This is a good initiative. However, the social partners are present in the RIZIV Committee on Budgetary Control and they are part of this committee. After all, how can one be held responsible if one has no participation? So we are simply asking that the social partners should be able to participate fully in the Committee on Finance and the Budget, as is the case today in the Committee on Budgetary Control of the RIZIV. Thanks to the participation of the social partners, the Committee on Budgetary Control examines whether there are exceedances, opinions are sent to the General Council Committee on Insurance here that the social security management committee should be responsible for taking corrective measures. It is also being considered whether the so-called savings measures are correct, whether they are not estimated, whether it is indeed possible. Those are important advices. How can we be held responsible if we have not had the opportunity to assess whether the measures are correct and have been properly estimated? Quite simply, a first point, of course we are in agreement with accountability. We've been doing it that way in health insurance since 1995. We call for the same principles to be applied to the management of social security. Three simple amendments allow the social partners to assume their full responsibility, but with the possibility of being able to play a full role in that committee, including monitoring, asking the management committees for any corrective measures and also evaluating the initial budgets. That is a first point. Financial responsibility is important, but as it is now before us, the social partners are in fact out of the question and they are faced with facts when measures are proposed. A second point concerns the ageing population. Indeed, in the project, the evolution of the state subsidy is linked to an ageing coefficient. Ladies and gentlemen, a few numbers. In 2000, we had in Belgium 186 000 people over the age of 85. I give you these figures because they have, you realize, a very important effect on social security expenditure. In 2017, 300,000. In 2030 we will be 350,000 and in 2050 700,000. This is a certainty. No need to do a lot of calculations and studies. People who are going to be 85 in 2050 are of course already born and present. So the impact will be important. Another example, in disability, from the year 2000 to the year 2010, we had an additional 80,000 disabled people. From the year 2010 to 2015, 90,000 more. And the simple demographic projections, I take only the mechanical demographic effect, tell us that, from 2016 to 2022, there will be 125,000 more. And this is only on the basis of the number of people coming into the labour market, the number of women and the effect of ageing. And the Committee for the Study of Ageing projects that social security spending will increase in 2015 from 25.3% of GDP to 26.1% in 2021. That's normal. You have heard the numbers of changes in the number of elderly people, the impact on disability, so there is a growth higher than GDP. And, in the law we are presented with, we are proposed to change below GDP, since we say: "when we do not reach 1.5%, we do not adapt ageing, when we do not reach a definitive exit from the changing labour market, we do not adapt the coefficient". Do you think that demographic trends will differ depending on the evolution of VAT, tax shift or GDP? No, of course not. Here, it is a demographic reality which will obviously lead to an increase in the share of social security in GDP. The law introduces a structural under-funding of social security in the form of lower-GDP growth. And the law already sets out the need to take structural economic measures which will of course only go through what? By a reduction in allowances. Because the number of pensioners will change anyway. The number of invalids will change anyway, only for reasons of ageing. Ladies and gentlemen, we believe that this article really condemns social security to continuous structural economies. So it is fundamental that this article be changed, not linked with elements that are there anymore. Let us refer to the Committee for the Study of Ageing which was established in 2001 and which, each year, produces a scientific report on the reality of the impact of ageing on social security figures. This would be scientifically sound and not linked to other parameters that have nothing to do with aging. Please, when words are uttered, turn them into deeds and there is a link between words and the reality of deeds. So we are asking for amendments that are very simple. On the one hand, accountability yes, but then give the composition and also give an opinion to the management committee and not to the government, because here too the government is present, as it works at INAMI and as the Minister of Social Affairs referred it very well to say that it worked well. And, two, as far as the state subsidy is concerned, when we talk about the ageing coefficient, then we also take the correct sources and information and do not link with elements that have nothing to do with ageing. These, Madam President, are the amendments that we would like to make to ensure the future of social security and not to lead us to a situation where there would be annual structural savings to be made because underfunding is enshrined in the law from the start.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-13-54-commissie-ic562x.u20	Thank you very much, Mr. Hermesse. Now I give the floor to Mr. Jadot.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-13-54-commissie-ic562x.u21	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, thank you for giving us the opportunity to express our views on a bill that is obviously essential to social security. Given my long professional career and my respectable age, this is not the first time that I have had a number of social security adaptations in this Parliament. I lived it with eminent ministers, including Luc Dhoore, with the general principles of social security in 1981, Jean-Luc Dehaene, with the Fund for the Financial Balance of Social Security and also the principle of the overall management of social security, and Laurette Onkelinx, with alternative financing and balance. And, each time, these developments have given rise to interesting debates. And we have, in this Parliament, moved beyond the political divides because everyone realizes that everyone is aware, at least until now, of the importance of social security and its financing for our social cohesion, especially in the current times. I don't know if we realize what's going on right now and the investigations show us every day. It is, of course, a project which is essential, because, regardless of the need, as Mr Dacté rightly explained, to adapt our financing system in the light of the transfers which have been made in the field of social security to the regions and the Communities, irrespective of the simplification which was deemed necessary, as Mr Tamellini explained with the cuckoo eggs, where expenditure on social security was imposed on the social security system, which in principle went back to primary expenditure, the objective was nevertheless to ensure a certain sustainability and stability in the financing of social security. And that, if we have perhaps answered certain aspects which I think are minor, I find that, on the essential elements, sustainability and stability, this leaves something seriously to be desired. This is an opportunity, in my view, which is lost in this area, unless Parliament, as it has done before, takes up this issue beyond, as I said, a number of political divisions and follows a number of indications which are indicated by the social partners, although sometimes they will agree that there are nuances between the trade union position and the employers' position, but not on the essential. On the three points – I will be brief, so as not to overwhelm the debate. The financing of health care, i.e. alternative financing, ladies and gentlemen, in accordance with the request of the social partners, the draft law reduces the basic financing of health insurance by the two global schemes and provides for alternative financing to compensate for the gap between the needs of INAMI and this limited funding. But budgetary overruns are not covered by the public treasury as the social partners asked. And so, it is particularly annoying, and particularly serious at the moment, as you know, there is no guarantee as to the financial balance of global management, especially in the current context where we are organizing the sort of dependence of our health care system. As a reminder, the growth in the means of health insurance in 2017 was limited to 0.5% in real terms, while the Office of the Plan forecasts an increase of 2.2%. But you see the result immediately. So I am well aware that the social partners have questioned the Minister for Social Affairs on this subject. The Minister for Social Affairs said that the current rules were being maintained but that she was aware of the problem and that, possibly, balance staffing could take place after the accountability mechanisms, but that is contrary to the legislation, as I believe the representative of UNIZO pointed out, because it is clear that at the moment – I am not going to embarrass you with that – it will be in the note – Article 1ter of Article 24 of the 1981 Act (the Dhoore Act) provides that the State does not contribute to exceeding the budgetary objective. The result is that we propose to delete this provision. As far as balance staffing is concerned, listen, frankly, if there are any provisions that I think are relatively absurd - I will use this term because it is significant - the criteria that are used in this area are really unacceptable for a number of reasons. Why? Because first of all, it is a list that is not exhaustive. This is something that is left to the discretion of the government, which can, at any time, by royal decree, make arrangements. I also wonder to what extent this is very compatible with the rules which are laid down by the Council of State. In any case, it is clear that the Finance Inspectorate has made serious comments on this matter and that it would be far preferable not, as the ETF suggests, to adapt this balance allocation periodically, every two or three months - where would the stability of a financing system still be? – but to provide for the inclusion in the law, the amount or at least the methodology to arrive at this amount. On the criteria, the list is not exhaustive. For example, balance funding would be conditional on the effects of the fight against social fraud. Is it still smart to empower the social partners on measures that are decided by the government and whose performance the government estimates at the budgetary level and to say to them: "if the effects are not there, it is your fault"? No. That's clear. This accountability – my colleague, Mr Hermesse, has talked enough about it – and it exists. It exists, for example, in the field of health care. In excess of the budgetary objective, we are responsible. Our affiliates must pay a contribution in this case. Contributions were collected to clear the deficit. We are penalized for administrative costs from the moment when there is improper use at the level of social security. This is the variable part of the administration costs. Accountability is provided for in the Future Compact with Minister De Block for Insurers. Look, I'm also going to share with you a personal experience when I was working at the union level. In the context of interprofessional agreements, Mr Tamellini, it has often been the case that employers' and trade union organisations go to the government to ask it, for example, not to collect social security contributions on part of the double holiday fee or to make provision for social security arrangements for the wage bonus. And so, it is the government that accepts or does not accept these measures. Therefore, if the government does not want this kind of measure, if it considers that these social agreements lead to stories that are not serious about social security, it is simple, it totally refuses to frame this mechanism in the bill which generally governs the system of interprofessional agreements. But the government is too happy, you know, to have an interprofessional agreement. As a result, it is often willing to accept this type of measure. So, why go and include such a system in the law? I don't understand. He shoots himself in the foot. The amount of the balance allocation would also depend on the assessment of the causes of the increase in volume effects. In other words, increasing volumes, it will first have to be shown that the increase in the number of invalids, unemployed persons, pensioners is well justified in order to be able to benefit from the balance. Look, no one understands that kind of thing. I therefore propose, ladies and gentlemen, that the accountability factors for balancing staffing be removed from the bill simply, as this type of discussion is a matter of political adjudication, that the list, I tell you, is not exhaustive, and that it is a blank cheque that we sign on social security to the government. That the amount and method of calculating the balance allocation be fixed by law and not by royal decree and that the balance allocation be sustained, as the social partners unanimously requested and that it not be limited to 2020 as foreseen in the project. For the conventional state subsidy that has existed for years (5 to 6 billion), that is true, the representative of the FEB said that it was a plus compared to the current situation. The current situation is indexation and there could be an increase with an ageing coefficient. But here I also share Jean Hermesse's view of the criteria for assessing the situation, the two criteria of exit from the labour market and GDP growth. It's inappropriate, isn't it? If the government wants to maintain this type of criterion, I also suggest, like Jean Hermesse, that the necessary methodology should be provided by the Study Committee on Aging. I mean, the monitoring. I have to say I don't understand very well. We are seized for the moment, not only at the mutual level, but also at the union level, etc., with a redesign of the administrations in which we are trying to simplify the landscape, in particular in the field of health insurance, but also in the field of social security. There are even budgetary provisions for this redesignation. And what do we add? Well, we are once again adding a financial and budgetary committee composed of officials and cabinet-bearers. Why this kind of extra commission? I have been chairman of the Committee on the Global Management of Social Security, where there are the social partners – employers and trade unions in power – there are the government representatives – it is an emanation of tripartite management – there are the managers, the bosses of the social security agencies. It is an organization that can perfectly fulfil this role, where there are the social partners. No, we prefer to create something additional to avoid, of course, the presence of the social partners. In my view, this committee is of no use, but, here again, it is a way of derogating in some way from the joint, collegial management of social security. In conclusion, Madam Chair, if I find that the bill was necessary to respond to government reform, to simplify alternative funding a little, to avoid cuckoo eggs, on the other hand, to ensure stability, I think we missed the goal. Why? Because the guarantee is not guaranteed for the financing of health care. Because the amount of the balance will vary depending on the political circumstances of the moment and the increase in the conventional subsidy is subject to criteria that are completely inappropriate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-13-54-commissie-ic562x.u22	Thank you very much, Mr Jadot. Finally, I give the floor to Mrs Vielle of UCL.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-13-54-commissie-ic562x.u23	Madam President, thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for this invitation. Knowing that I was going to speak after a series of experts who were extremely familiar with the technical aspects of the law, I thought it might be useful to try to interpret it with the aune... [[technical problem]] I wanted to repeat everything we have heard so far - the essential stumbling blocks have been identified - by trying to understand the state of Belgian social security in space and time to show you that, in my opinion, the law is devoting a paradigm shift towards a much more Anglo-Saxon model of social protection. This process takes place without saying the name. It's important that we understand what game we're playing. In space, we distinguish three major social protection systems: the Bismarckian system, which is also called "continental", "conservative", "corporatist" - it has a whole series of names according to the adopted point of view - which is actually ours and which is opposed to the Scandinavian and Anglo-Saxon systems. The Scandinavian systems, which are also called "social democrats", and Anglo-Saxons, nicknamed "Beveridgians" or "liberals". I have drawn up a small table that will allow you to quickly see what, schematically, distinguishes these different social security families. You see that the continental system is characterized by the important role played by the social partners and the State - and a less important role for the family and even less important for the market - that it aims at wage insurance, that it was initially intended to be able to pay insured persons benefits proportional to the wage – this has changed over time – that health care is paid in cash, while elsewhere a hospital system replaces it. The persons covered are the workers and their families. The majority of the funding is provided by contributions supplemented by government grants. It is this funding, mainly provided by contributions, which also justifies the very important role of the social partners in guaranteeing the system, its proper functioning and its sustainability. Obviously, when one starts to move one of these variables, it is necessary to think about all the others as well. The Scandinavians, whose iconic model is Swedish, Anglo-Saxons and continentals, are characterized by different performances in terms of the ability to allow people to survive in dignity outside the labour market. The primary role of social security is nevertheless to allow a dignified life without dependent on the labour market in a series of circumstances or hazards of life. They are also characterised by their performance in terms ofcommodification, but also by their performance in terms of return or integration into the labour market. What do we see? If we look only at performance in terms of the ability to allow citizens to live comfortably outside the labour market in a series of circumstances, Scandinavians are the best. The continentals arrive right below. The Anglo-Saxons are, in fact, the worst. They are the ones who do the least well to meet social needs. Conversely, considering the ability to integrate people into the labour market, Scandinavians remain the best. In other words, they have very good scores on all levels. The Anglo-Saxons arrive right below. We continentals are the least performing. There is a reason for the rise of Anglo-Saxons in this second performance category. In fact, benefits are so low that people are forced to work when they are sick, old. When they are unemployed, they are forced to rework under any condition. That's why their performance is better than ours at this level. It is important to know where we are today to understand the meaning of the law. As I have told you, if we look at this column, we see a whole series of progressive evolutions over time, insidious, that do not necessarily say their name and that make us see changes over time. The challenge in the social sciences is to measure or characterize changes. Is there a small marginal change or rather a large-scale change that can be considered to be paradigmatic and a shift towards model change? A very important author in the 1990s tried to characterize the changes brought about by Mrs Thatcher's policy when she joined the government in the 1980s. He studied this through an analysis grid. I recommend this article by Peter Hall which analyses this whole period and shows how Mrs Thatcher has brought about a real paradigm shift. It therefore separates small changes (what it calls fine tuning, i.e. small changes in benefit amounts, scales, index jumps, etc.).), the more important institutional changes (e.g. the approximation of the statutes of employees and workers, the abolition of time credit without reason, such more important changes) and the so-called paradigmatic changes that signal a completely new political, economic, ideological approach of an institution. You can have first-order and second-order changes without any paradigm change, but when you implement a paradigm change, there are necessarily also first-order and second-order changes. In fact, it shows us in this article how Mrs Thatcher has moved from a Keynesian approach to an orthodox liberal approach in her employment and social security policies, how she has changed the hierarchy of objectives and adjusted and modified the array of instruments to achieve them. For example, it shows that the government's primary concern during this period is inflation and more than unemployment; unemployment is on the second level. It rejects macroeconomic efforts to support employment in favour of fiscal balance and tax cuts and eliminates some regulatory instruments such as income policies, limits to bank borrowing, and a whole range of such instruments. If I tell you all this, it is because it seems to me that the law enshrines the outcome of a paradigm shift in Belgium and a shift towards an Anglo-Saxon model. I therefore think it is important to know what we are doing when we pass this law. The government's proposal is obviously not limited to this law and is also very legible when we read the government statement: the main issue is the competitiveness of companies and not employment. There is not even a chapter dedicated to social security. We find it "plic ploc" everywhere... but "whole", it is still a third of the digital declaration that is devoted to it in number of pages. It is not conceived as a vehicle of solidarity or as a social shock absorber of crisis - we are still in the midst of crisis - nor as a pillar of our socio-economic model or as a response to social needs. It's never that that's mentioned, never. It is designed as a brake on employment. We are talking about social charges which are an obstacle to competitiveness and too high social benefits which are pitfalls for employment. This is how social security is mentioned in the government declaration. As a result, the cornerstone of the government's momentum will be the reduction of contributions to reduce gross wages. And that goes with the idea that is in the whole statement that this reduction will self-feed the system. It's a real trompe-l'oeil, actually. Basically, the reasoning is that the lower the social costs, the better the system will be and the more balanced it will be. Of course, when we reduce social charges, what happens is that we reduce the overall envelope and that, necessarily, the adjustment variable is at that time social expenditure. We're going to have to cut social spending to maintain that balance. I am not going to dwell on the points of attention in the law that were very well listed by a whole series of people before me. I'll just call them back. The shift of the tax shift is mainly based on the random return of contributions related to net job creation and the result of the fight against tax evasion. In the event of insufficient return, subsidiary compensation measures are conditioned in such a way that some can never be activated, it has been mentioned. Quite significantly, "the granting of a balance allocation" is put like this, it is something that continues to leave me puzzled, "the granting of the balance allocation is conditional on the contribution of social security to the absorption of the budget deficit", the parliamentary work tells us, the explanatory statements. And this contribution can be reviewed by the government when establishing the budget or budgetary control. The decision-making power of the social partners, it is necessary to call a cat a cat because it is they who have historically guaranteed the maintenance of the institution, this power is limited, even annihilated by the hating of new technical commissions, for the benefit of the government. It's been said, it's for the benefit of the government that these... So, very concretely, how is this going to happen? It's a bit schematic, I'm not going to do all the budget steps. Basically, you define the social security budget with a standard of growth in health care, unemployment expenditure, revenue, etc. If the tax shift does not produce the expected return or if the standard of health care growth is exceeded or if the fight against social fraud does not produce the expected return, then the commission will warn the government that there is a risk of slipping and will sum up the overall management to propose measures to correct. So the government is going to ask the social partners to propose measures. There is of course no solution since they are not responsible for the failure of these policies. There is only one solution, which is the increase in revenues, which is a taboo. That's the quadrature of the circle. So, balance endowment, at that time, will be subordinated to a screw-up in spending. And what do we finally provoke? We provoke a kind of... It is above all, to put it simply, before being a budget law, before being a law of financial reform, it is a law of governance. It is a law of governance whose purpose is to allow or even ensure the permanent redefinition of the downward balance. I think that's what best defines this law. This is the permanent redefinition of the downward equilibrium. How? By making the social security budget assume the forecast errors relating to the impact of government policies. We have given countless examples; we are not going to go back to that. Any external cause must be assumed by the system. The cost of social agreements must be borne by the system. The question was raised of the state subsidy, which could be increased by the ageing coefficient. It was mentioned that this was conditional on real GDP growth of 1.5% - which is very unlikely - and a significant increase – more than six months – in the effective retirement age. It shows very well... And the employers said – I heard them correctly – "we find these goals excellent and we are ready to contribute." Great! And so, we say "accountability works", there is a will of the employers, a will of the government to do it. The problem is: what happens if employers or the government fail to do so? Who pays at the end? The government? Employers? It's the workers. So I'd like us to think about the notion of accountability. Normally, in such policies, when we want to be accountable, we aim at people who have the opportunity to change policies, behaviour; it is they that are punished, in a way. Here, we no longer talk about accountability. We must not call "responsibility" measures which, in fact, report on the problems caused elsewhere to the beneficiaries of social security. It's not accountability. So, I find that there is already, in the terms used, again a trompe-l'oeil and a way of... There you go. I may be going through this, but to tell you that I think we are actually moving on to an active social state model that had been put in place in the 1960s, with Scandinavian inspiration, with difficulty, because we were in austerity policies, etc. With this law, we are clearly moving on to a model of an active, liberal Anglo-Saxon social state that will, and certainly would, lead to the privatisation of a substantial part of social protection for the benefit of those who have the means to do so and who ask me questions about the social objectives that the European Union prescribes for us. If you read the report on the development of the social situation and social protection in Belgium in April 2015, we are told that the development of the social objective "Europe 2020" is not on track. The report's findings warrant particular attention to the social situation and social cohesion. One wonders how this reform will meet the growth of inequalities, access to health for all, child poverty, the poverty of single-parent families, people of foreign origin, the precariousness of young people, who are the real challenges of today. I would end by saying that we are in a very special momentum. Today there is a crisis, a socio-economic transition that must be managed and accompanied towards a new model of society characterized by very profound upheavals, be it of the family, of the mode of production, of work, of knowledge and of knowledge. It is therefore necessary to reform this social protection. No one can say otherwise. Because we need to accompany this transition, to anticipate it. The law enshrines the liquidation of a system without proposing anything new. That's how I read it. At a time when there is a need for a broad societal debate, which involves all the actors involved in this discussion and how to accompany it. François Ewald, to whom we will not blame for being a radical of the left, once said in his beautiful book "The Welfare State": "Social security is the last place where society negotiates with itself. It reflects us, it accompanies us at all times of our lives. This is a fundamental democratic issue for the coming years." Not just a social issue, a democratic issue. This means that everyone has to get around the table to redefine it. Funding is certainly at the heart of this redefinition because it is it that reflects the solidarity used in this society to accompany the changes. It is therefore urgent beyond this law, which seems very technical, to rethink our model and to ask ourselves what model we want, what funding and what kind of solidarity, to meet what needs. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-13-54-commissie-ic562x.u24	Thank you, Mrs. Vielle. You may have noticed that there are sandwiches, so we can use the lunch. At the same time, I am giving the committee members the opportunity to ask questions to those who have just shed light on this bill. Can anyone please give me the floor? I suggest we start with Mrs. Onkelinx.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-13-54-commissie-ic562x.u25	Good morning, Madam President, and thank you to the experts for their exciting insights. We will have this essential debate next week. Be aware that your comments will be positively exploited in this dialogue as well as your interventions. We are not many enough to hear you today, but your speech will be re-explained in our committee on Tuesday, Wednesday, for those who are not here today. Today, this is not the debate. These are perhaps a little more specific questions, but from the outset, I could say that it is a project that scares me personally. We're changing paradigms, changing systems completely. Finally, a system of financing social security on moving sands is being rebuilt. The social partners are completely disdained, having the will to point their finger at them as irresponsible, since the words which were continuously used by the government were "we must finally be held accountable", as if the social partners had not spent their time, throughout these years, taking responsibility for the management of social security. And then, as has been demonstrated very well in this intervention, social security becomes simply a department like another, an adjustment variable, where we will be able to have fun, during each fiscal year, to reduce expenditure, and hence the coverage for workers and their families. But all this will be said more broadly next week. A few very specific small requests. We are, of course, preparing amendments, hoping that the majority will be open to that, as Mr Jadot has said. It is true that in all social security debates, attempts have been made to go beyond the majority-opposition divide. Because it is our common good, and we must try to support and improve social security, of course, but not to take this debate as a debate like any other. And I hope that our amendments can therefore be accepted, in whole or in part. Some of the amendments were proposed directly by some of the partners. We'll be keen to reposition them. I'd like to ask you a few things in bulk. First, on the mechanism of balance staffing. Of course, I am very interested in it, since at the time I wanted to propose it with the changes to alternative financing. First, on staffing itself. At the General Council on December 2, you asked yourself about this balance. You asked: "It's quite strange, because there is balance staffing, there are accountability factors, but they say: anyway, the security won't be bonusd, won't be in deficit." So, in your discussions with government officials, did you have any answers about the mechanism? That is, when it is going to be given, how will it be given? Let's imagine that we're missing X hundreds of millions of euros. We can see that. Is it given on condition that there are changes? Don't we give it? How does it work? I don't understand. It seems contradictory in the text itself, but maybe you've had a lot of information. Two, on the accountability factors, I fully agree with what some of the members who were heard said. These are not accountability factors. This is a government justification for proposing reductions in coverage and protections. But even for some factors, I don't understand what that means. For example, when talking about the control of improper use mechanisms. Did you get any clarifications on what that means? I'd already be interested to have information that you've been able to get from your dialogue with government officials. Another factor is an increase in volume effects. Did you have a discussion about the reduction, including contributions? The last speaker explained that in the government statement, there was much talk about the need for the government to see a reduction in social contributions, that it was an obsession. In fact, they are implementing it not only through the taxshift, which is partly related to employment, but as a general rule, there are reductions in social contributions. And in all the proposals, for example on flexi-jobs, we are constantly seeing new proposals to reduce social contributions. There will therefore be a very sharp decrease in social contributions. We are talking about "volume effect" increases on benefits. Is, in the same way, the government's overall responsibility for the "volume effect" reduction in the receipts of social contributions? My last question is about taxshift, while my colleagues will be speaking on other issues. Representatives of UNIZO think it is great to take account of net, positive and negative returns? For my part, I don't know. At present, the Court of Auditors finds a hole, a gap of €6.6 billion due to the taxshift. Have you discussed this gap of departure? Have the government representatives confirmed to you that this will be compensated directly? Will social security receive immediate compensation for this gap? I'd be interested to know. I talked about balance staffing and accountability factors. I fully agree with the comments made by Messrs. Hermesse and Jadot on the evolution of the basic allocation and their proposal for a coefficient defined in partnership with the Ageing Committee and not on the age of leaving work or on GDP. With regard to alternative financing, I believe that the social partners have made a great deal of emphasis on the need for a sufficient reserve and that tobacco excise duties could not constitute it. I think you proposed that it be done through the professional discount. Do you have any idea, then, what should be put in place of what is proposed? So, there are three things that are proposed: VAT, household allowance and excise duty on tobacco. If we come with the professional discount, could this significantly reduce the shifting sand around accountability factors and balance staffing? Do you have the figures in this regard? Let me conclude by saying that I fully agree with you on putting this committee of technocrats under supervision and that the least we can do would be for the social partners to be involved in the committee. I would like to apologise to you and to my colleagues because I will have to be away for a little while, but experts from the PS and my colleagues are here and will of course take note of all the answers that will be given. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-13-54-commissie-ic562x.u26	Madam President, I too would like to thank the speakers who spoke this morning for their very comprehensive presentations. When I hear the opinions, I can only see that they are divided on this reform. I therefore want to ask four questions, particularly Mr Dacté and a question to Mrs Vielle. First of all, with regard to the return effects, Mr Deffet, it has been mentioned by some people who have been heard here, as well as by commentators in the press, that this reform would only take into account the positive effects. That statement seems incorrect to me. I would like to know if it does not also take into account the negative feedback effects. Then, in relation to the ageing coefficient, I realized that it is a plus to increase conventional endowments. This is clearly not the way that some here have understood this. Will the introduction of this ageing factor lead to reductions in benefits, as some suggest? Still on this ageing coefficient, do you not think, on the contrary, that it is a plus compared to the previous system and will therefore bring positive results in the overall reform? Third question on the need for balance. On page 14 of the bill, it is very clearly stated "in any case, social security is in budgetary balance". This is stated very clearly on page 14. However, here and in the press, once again, it is constantly understood that the aim of this text is to unbalance the financing of social security and not to guarantee it any more. It is even understood that this is a way that some would undermine the cohesion of the State. We're going this far. However, on page 14, I see that the opposite is said. Can you, Mr. Effect, give your opinion on this question and, overall, recall the advantages you see in this reform? On the involvement of the social partners, I have heard Mr Jadot and others accuse the government of wanting to put the social partners under supervision. Nor is it my reading of the text. Could you explain in detail how the social partners are and will be involved in this new reform? Will this fundamentally change things? Will they be placed under guardianship, as some suggest? Mrs. Vielle, I listened to your presentation. You say in summary that we are changing paradigms, that we are moving towards an Anglo-Saxon liberal model. It's a vision. I certainly agree with your point of view when you say that there is a need for reform. On this aspect of things, we agree. I want to ask you the question. As an academic, what reform options would you propose to reform social security, since obviously the suggested avenues do not seem to be acceptable to you? In your analysis, I have noted that you consider that the reduction in social contributions obviously results in a decrease in revenue. We agree, but I do not have the impression that you incorporate in your calculations the return effect this will have, through increasing the competitiveness of our companies. It is well known that the height of gross wage costs in Belgium is such that a reduction in social contributions will simply lead to greater competitiveness of our enterprises, job creation and revenue increases. This aspect of things, I have the impression that you did not integrate it into your analysis. So I would like to know what are the paths that you, as an academic, would propose to reform this social security, without having this liberal or tatcherian categorization that you have stigmatized. Thank you in advance for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-13-54-commissie-ic562x.u27	As the last speaker said, we are facing an essential paradigm shift here. I really regret the conditions under which it must be achieved because it deserves a real debate on society, maturation, the possibility of counter-arguments and counter-proposals in relation to what is put on the table. We really had to insist on Tuesday to get these auditions. They take place three days later. We want to continue working on this text on Tuesday and Wednesday at the finish. This is really problematic in relation to such an important societal change, with such serious potential consequences. I would really like to stress that we will have the opportunity to come back to this in the future debate. The question is not for the experts here: why should we have to work in such haste? We are trying to put this reform as the result of a request made in 2015 by the social partners, who, as we can see, on the one hand, found that the consequences of the last reform of the State had not been taken into account in the context of the financing of social security, and that the system had become complex. No one will deny that. It is the request for departure, but what has been made of it seems to me to depart from the demand which, in the end, no longer appears as a pretext. How were you involved in the drafting of this text? I am referring here to those who, in terms of health care, pensions, unemployment insurance and social security in general, are involved in the co-management of social security. At one point, have you been asked for your opinion or solutions to this goal of simplification, accountability, when there is actually a problem? Accountability is not a "big word" as long as we provide the means for accountability. As Mr Hermesse has said, have you been questioned about an objectivation of the evolution of the needs, linked to ageing, linked to the increase in the number of patients, but also the identification of solutions, more in the medium term, to reduce the costs of social security, if budgets, in terms of the cost of medicines, explode, if we see the emergence of new health problems, in relation to which prevention policies should be developed? I think I know the answer. If we now give you two months, three months, would it be possible to put the actors around the table and propose an alternative to this text, to build a more balanced project and to have the necessary and useful societal debate for such a change, which cannot be achieved in catini? For me, it cannot be done at all as such, we will have the debate on Tuesday, but in any case, it cannot take place without a debate of society. It was a principal question. Another debate: compared to the reductions in social contributions that have been granted over the years, for different target groups. We must be aware that they have the effect of reducing the revenues of the social security system, and they can also explain the deficit facing us. We can even add all the para-salarial practices: company cars, cafeteria plans, today, if we look at the news, the debate that is taking place in the banks, the transformation of part of the wage, beyond a certain wage level, into virtual currency, but which is not the subject of payment of social contributions. Do you not think that it would be fair to be able to assess, over the years, the cost of social security of these various reductions in social contributions in order also to set an objective budgetary objective in terms of alternative financing of social security, a bit like on competitiveness? It dates back to 1996 or earlier, and we're talking about wage drift. I'm challenging the concept. But it can be said that in the area of social security financing, there has been the opposite drift. A drift in non-payment of social contributions. Or else, there was a need to change the system and provide strong alternative financing to offset these reductions. Do you have an estimate of the cost to social security of all these measures that have been taken, which may be an objector to the debate? Do you think, in the analysis of the text – and I am perhaps speaking more to the representatives of the FEB, UNIZO and the expert of the SPF – than in relation to this equilibrium context "in any case", it will be possible to achieve it other than by reducing social interventions, interventions for the benefit of the beneficiaries, the sick, the pensioners, the job seekers? Because they say: "Tomorrow, the system will be in balance!!" It's my reading of the text, but maybe I misunderstood it. But I believe that it can only be balanced by reducing interventions to the benefit of those who need them, and in addition, it will be the responsibility of the social partners, at that time, not the responsibility of the policy. Have you seen any other way of achieving balance than reducing social security interventions? Another issue is that the criteria for activation of compensation in relation to ageing are included in the text. Can anyone tell me when we can expect an increase in GDP, based on economic projections, of more than 1.5%? There are academics and observers in the room. In what year will this goal be achieved? I don't know if Mr. Jadot has any idea about that. It's a question that needs to be asked anyway. Is the criterion available? Finally, I would like to read with you Article 23 of the bill: "In order to maintain the budgetary balance of the ONSS overall management and to ensure the continuity of payments of social benefits, the King determines, each year, by deliberate decree in the Council of Ministers, the final amount of the balance allocation for the ONSS overall management – and we come to the essential point – after taking into account several accountability factors for the purpose that the ONSS overall management has neither surplus nor deficit in its budgetary accounts, except for the change in investments made on its own account". Can you explain to me how you, for your part, understand this Article 23? What does it mean to "take into account" these accountability factors? Should we reach this 1.5% of GDP, this goal of increasing the length of the career? What does "no surplus or deficit" mean? This formulation is extremely vague. If, among the social partners, academics and specialists present here, someone could enlighten us on these terms, it would be good. We will discuss this with the minister and the government who are responsible for the wording of this article, but it is interesting to have your own reading as a social security finance specialist. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-13-54-commissie-ic562x.u28	Thank you to the people who have spoken. I want to try to put some perspective in front of me and find out where the big differences are. I have listened with increasing amazement to the analysis of Mrs Vielle, a scientist, I suppose, and to the conclusions she draws. I do not know what facts and figures are based on, but on the margins. I start in 2014 and the years before, to come to my question. In 2014, under the previous government, it is a pity that Mrs Onkelinx has left the then Minister for Social Affairs, responsible for social security and its financing, as ambition, and I quote from her government agreement, because we are not going to have the substantive debate now: in order to ensure the financial balance of social security, provision will be made for a temporary and additional dot, on top of the existing funding, which will have to be calculated annually. That is the policy line of the former Social Affairs Minister in the previous government. By doing so, the previous government guaranteed funding until 2014. Furthermore, that minister's ambition did not reach. So until 2016, because no new cases were developed last time, there was a vacuum for two years. There was even no legal basis to ensure that the funding, the social security budget, would be in balance. Yet that all went well. The budget has been in balance for two years. The government has taken its responsibility. Over the last few months, the management committees of the various administrations have also had a strong exchange of views with your cooperation, for which thanks, in order to arrive at a new system that takes into account the effects of the state reform and a thorough tax shift. It is true that everyone agrees that labour is being taxed too much and that the burden in this area should be reduced, which means that social security should be financed differently, given that social security is currently financed for about two thirds by contributions from employees and employers and for a third by public funds. Those are the basics for me. So today, first of all, there is a draft in which we assume that the reduction of the contributions, i.e. the tax shift, must be compensated, so that the financing remains the same. Secondly, it is said that the State grant will be maintained and, where appropriate, increased by taking into account the ageing ratio.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Thirdly, if, on the basis of these public resources, the accounts are not yet in order on top of the contribution and a deficit is noted, there is the balance settlement. This is not, therefore, from the point of view of the previous Minister for Social Affairs - that the final amount of the balance for the year n is fixed in such a way as to ensure the budgetary balance of social security. So that's what the legal text says, Article 23. As far as I am concerned, the government representative in the management committee has confirmed to the social partners that the financial balance will be guaranteed at all times. My question to all those who have spoken is on the basis of which they say that the balance in social security is less guaranteed by these proposals than by the policies of the last two years and the policies before them. What differences do those who make them decide?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-13-54-commissie-ic562x.u29	Madam President, I would particularly like to thank the various speakers, but also, in addition to your speeches today, to welcome the work that has been done by the social partners, not in view of today's hearing but in advance, and concerning the various opinions and processes of this law. Whether it is through the Social Security Management Committee, the independent aspect, but also at the level of the various working groups, it is obviously an important work. I would like to ask the various speakers whether it is possible, given the conditions under which we are working today, to have a copy of your notes and slides. It would of course not only be for me personally, but it would certainly be useful for all parliamentarians and for the work that awaits us in the coming weeks. You have all pointed out that a reform of the financing of social security is necessary. You also recalled the various positive aspects on which the social partners had previously positioned themselves. But what is obviously challenging – I am not going to get into the debate, as my colleague, Stefaan Vercamer, has just done, and I want to answer a number of things. I am not going to do this – it is that there is a double break, a break from the place of the social partners and from the organisation. By pouring this organization into the law of the under-financing of social security, there is a weakening of this social security which becomes a variable of adjustment and which leads to the organization of the removal of the "assurant" character of social security. However, my feeling is that we can make a positive change in this project. I have heard clearly here, among the various people who have spoken, the call for a series of amendments on the texts, both on the part of trade unions, mutuals or experts. If I may, I would therefore like to turn to employers in relation to a series of themes and questions so that we can, in the coming weeks, see if it is not possible to find a common basis for all the social partners on a series of points to make a positive change in this law. You said – and I repeat what you said, ladies Deiteren and Bettens – that there was a need for "a simple, stable and coherent system." All right, but then I would like to test you, first of all on the place of the social partners. We are in the immediate future – it was before midnight – of a new draft IPA agreement that has been drawn up. I would also like to take this opportunity to pay tribute to the work of all the social partners in the G-10. You have heard your fellow social partners (unions and mutuals) plead for the social partners to be more involved in this well-known committee in this financial and budgetary committee, which is going to change monitoring, even if it already exists today. What do you think? Can you join their position? If so, would it not be possible to find a common amendment together (employers, independents, trade unions and mutuals)? Secondly, always on the place of the social partners and the whole issue of balance. Among the factors of accountability, several hit me, including one in particular on the place of the social partners: Among the factors of accountability, we have respect for the budgetary neutrality of the agreements concluded between the social partners. I take the example of the IPA project that you validated at the G-10 two days ago, which I am in favour of and for which I hope the government will fully validate the content. There is one aspect that concerns pre-pension at age 55 for all those who were victims of collective redundancies in 2016 (Caterpillar, ING and a whole series of others). We know there's a cost! The social partners have rightly validated in this agreement an element which, if it were tomorrow after the adoption of this new law, does not respect budgetary neutrality. I raise this point because, de facto, ensuring that the agreements between the social partners respect budgetary neutrality in the factors of accountability, severely weakens the ability of the social partners to conclude agreements and, moreover, gives the government a right of veto. This also raises the following question, addressed to all the speakers: what is the law called agreements that are concluded? How far does that go? The bill also refers to "misuse of means". What does that mean to you? What does that cover? Are social agreements taken at the level of all social agreements, at all levels, or not? Beyond that, on the employers' side, do you think it is reasonable and wise to unblock the joint management of social security and health care? Because obliging budgetary neutrality to be respected, this significantly prevents the social partners from making balanced progress in agreements that they have concluded. And that's why I was following the example of your PIA project. Other aspects on which I would like to test you to see if we can find a common basis for amendments and to change the law: I am wondering about the fact that we are planning to provide balance with a stop in 2020. No doubt some will say "yes, but it's because there's an evaluation". Okay, but we can plan an evaluation. I have no problem with that. An evaluation can very well be expected in 2020. In my view, the evaluation should not only be carried out in 2020. This is already happening today. For me, a government has to do a permanent monitoring and must be able to reassess, especially in the area of social security. In view of all the steps taken in the meantime at the political level (tax shift and others), we must be able to reassess things on a regular basis. But shouldn't we, because it represents important issues on the whole, keep an evaluation perhaps more specific in 2020, but anticipate that balance staffing will not be cut off as of this 2020 date? All the more so as no one here... and again, maybe if some of you think so, I'd like them to explain it and prove it. But it seems to me that no one can believe that, suddenly, after 2020, given the evolution we know, the projections that are made, the macroeconomic aspects that are known, we cannot imagine that after 2020, all of a sudden, we no longer need a balance. Another aspect is ageing. On this particular aspect, Jean Hermesse recalled a series of interesting figures. I will allow myself to add a section of figures since the aspect of ageing will not be taken into account... I have heard colleagues say that we need to be reassured, that the ageing aspect is taken into account. May I recall that average GDP growth over the last five years was 0.9%? May I recall that the average GDP growth over the last ten years was 1.2%? Here I have projections from the National Bank and the Planning Office. If I believe the National Bank, for the years 2017, 2018, 2019 - it's never just a projection - in 2018, GDP would be 1.6%. In 2017, it would be 1.4% and 1.5% in 2019. If I look at the Plan Bureau projections for 2017, it's about 1.4%. In any case, we do not go up beyond 1.5%. With regard to the reduction in the effective retirement age, I will not repeat here - I will do it next week - the various figures of recent years. It is also possible to anticipate for the next few years, given the fact that today, because of the absence of a major project to improve the qualitative and quantitative aspect of career ends and to actually allow - it is necessary to take into account the necessary lengthening of the professional career and the reduction in the effective age of retirement - to arrange career ends in order to be effective. This project is not being carried out today. As a result, there is a growing trend towards communicating vases since and towards "disability" diseases. In addition, there is evidence of population ageing. I would like to test you on this idea, this proposed amendment, which would simply allow us to take account of the objective figures on the aspect of ageing. Is this an aspect on which employers could agree? This would not be determined by one bench or the other. It is sufficient to take the reports that are produced annually by the Committee on Ageing. It's something that's factual, and it's scientifically validated. This would be logical in that you are also advocating for simple, stable and consistent funding. This would be clearly consistent in view of the aspect of ageing which, in any case, is demographically necessary for us today with all the consequences we know on the various aspects of social security. Finally, perhaps I would like to conclude with two questions which seem to me to be quite fundamental on the macro-economic aspect and on the approach to this issue. The first is that I have spoken at the moment about aging and both aspects, but we are talking about the importance of taking into account growth and the actual retirement age in order to have a mechanism to adapt aging staffing. At the same time, when you have an economic situation that is more difficult, more morose, what happens? As we know, the recipes are shrinking. It is, of course, at that time that social security may need a little more in order to be balanced. I think that on this point, everyone can agree. But here, of course, it is the opposite, since at the limit, the lower the GDP, the more difficult the situation is, since revenues are lower when you have a worse economic situation. In the end, the project plans not to adapt to ageing. In relation to that, I would still like to have your reaction. How can you justify this aspect of things? Does that not motivate us more to get something consistent? This seems to me to be an important inconsistency. Secondly, I will conclude with this question on the reform of the financing of social security. It was necessary, as has been said, and I broadly agree with this on various aspects. At the same time, when we are doing a financing reform, we can also say that we have to go back from a blank page. Why not? We know very well today – and it has been a few years since we know it – that we have a conventional endowment but that must be accompanied by a balance endowment that is at least twice as high or almost twice as high. In a reform of the financing of social security, it would not have been necessary, of course, to adapt it to the sixth reform of the State, but rather to provide for, not a conventional allocation which is known in any case that it will be clearly too short - it is factual, it is mathematical - from the outset, a higher conventional allocation which corresponds to the data that we have today in the field of social security and which could then have actually been adapted according to a series of parameters, including that of ageing. When we do not only want to make changes to the fine tuning you were talking about earlier - adaptations, reforms of the state, etc., these elements have already been recalled earlier - but we want to make much more fundamental reforms of social security and financing, the logic would, I think, not be to take as a starting point a conventional allocation which is known to be ultimately very insufficient in relation to needs. I believe that in the health sector, in the field of accidents in general, these are, first and foremost, the needs involved. We cannot sweep them with a back of arms, even for questions of the budgetary slippage of Entity 1 and more particularly of the State. I would add that you should perhaps be able in your answers to try to bring forward elements on which we could base - if you agree and even if we were to do a job in the wake of these hearings - in order to move towards joint amendments for the social partners which would make it possible to make a positive change in this law.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-13-54-commissie-ic562x.u30	I would like to thank all the speakers for their very sensible input, and I am not saying that ironically. I mean this very seriously, because the different perspectives have been presented, from very technical and narrow perspectives of interest to the very broad social importance of social security. That reflects a strong human and world view behind it. That's why I found it particularly interesting. I will take my further reflections for the substantive discussion, but I do have a number of questions. I have a question for Mr Hermesse and I have a question for the joint representation of the VBO and Unizo. I would like to add that I sometimes had the impression that you were defending this as if you had written it yourself. Mr Hermesse, in the opinion of 2015, the social partners unanimously asked that, from the general resources, the public authorities should take into account possible exceedances of the budget targets for health care following the application of a response of the mutualities. To this end, they asked for the Article 24b of the Law of 29 June 1981 to be amended. The article now states that any overruns of the budgetary objective can be adjusted from the overall management in accordance with an amount and modalities. Furthermore, the article does not contain any general public funds. The government has not followed that advice and does not adapt Article 24b. However, it gives up an unrealistic growth standard of 0.5 % or even less, while the Planning Bureau and the Ageing Committee consider an average growth standard of 2.2 % to be necessary. In other words, the government imposes an unrealistic standard that inevitably leads to exceedances or savings on patients' hoods. This will be adapted from the resources of global management, it is said, but it will not be possible to do so until 2020, which will also depend on unrealistic response parameters. Do the representatives of the mutualities agree that the imposed growth standard in health insurance is unrealistic to meet needs? Do they endorse the unanimous demand of the social partners to amend Article 24b in this way? For the representatives of the VBO and Unizo I have the following questions. There have been consultations on the financing of medical care. The social partners have noted that the representatives of the government have expressly confirmed that the financing of the overrun of the budgetary objective is offset by the balance of management. This is stated in the opinion of the social partners in the social security management committee. Is that a guarantee that the equilibrium dose will be unconditional if necessary? Do you think that is and should be understood in this way? What guarantees do you have? I also have a general question. I don't know if anyone can answer that question, perhaps Mr Vercamer? I don't know. Minister Peeters said in the media at the beginning of this week, even Sunday in the Seventh Day, if I am not mistaken, that he would have had discussions with the social partners during the course of this week. I would like to ask the social partners whether this consultation has taken place. When did you see Secretary Peeters? How'd the meeting go? What are the results?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-13-54-commissie-ic562x.u31	Thank you, Madam President. I will not be long because my group leader has already intervened and I do not want to prolong the debate. However, first of all, I would like to thank the various speakers for their presence and for the various insights they have provided. I would be tempted to say that, after hearing them, I am even more concerned about the scope of this reform. Indeed, the various interlocutors were largely critical, with a nuance at the level of the representatives of the FEB and UNIZO who are the only ones to see many positive elements. Before I come to two or three questions, I would also say that Mrs Vielle's intervention puts this reform in a global perspective within the framework of the overall action of the government, but also, well forward, the overall risks for the future. Having said that, a few questions were not redundant in relation to what had been asked. First of all, in relation to Mr Jadot's speech. He explained to us that he had experienced some social security reforms and his funding, and mentioned in particular the different types of endowments – such as both of them – but, pointing out that it was built as they were, these different types of endowments and that they were based on different motivations over time; there were different motivations for these endowments: the traditional endowment, the "alternative funding" endowment, the balance endowment... Is the spirit of the foundation of these endowments maintained and still found in the framework of this reform? And I will be tempted to say more comprehensively, does it still make sense to have these different endowments? Since, finally, the traditional allocation, the "alternative financing" allocation, the balance allocation, these three allocations, on the state budget, is finally three alternative financings compared to the basic financings that are the contributions. Do we still have to distinguish them? I'm getting to a sub-question. Especially when one has, for alternative financing, sources affected, dedicated, clearly established and feared insufficient. Should we not simply say that it is the overall budget of the State, alternative financing? So that's a little bit to see what you think about this element of the three types of endowments and this aspect of the resources that might be insufficient. Another question, in relation to the tax shift. I hear two different versions. That of Mr Tamellini, who spoke of a form of fog that the allocation of alternative financing, tax shift and differential earlier, had created a fog. On the other hand, the FEB and UNIZO representatives seem to say that there is total clarity. Here, I would like to see what the calculation methods are for determining this alternative financing based on the tax shift. And how can we see it more clearly? Until this point, I don't see it very clearly yet. Another issue with respect to accountability. On accountability, much has been said and further questions have been asked, but some speakers this morning have mentioned that accountability is not necessarily the responsibility of the real people in charge and that it may be appropriate not only to remove these accountability factors but also to improve accountability of the real people in charge. Are there any suggestions in this area that could be legislated? I mean, the penultimate question. Mr. Jadot insisted on paragraph 1ter, particularly in cases of exceedance for reasons of exogenous factors of the standard. The social partners had asked the minister a question on the matter and seemed quite the same. The importance of having this additional funding ensured and therefore the amendment of paragraph 1b. There has been a response from the minister which seems insufficient, even legally, on the basis of what I have heard from Mr Jadot. What is the position of the social partners today in relation to this development in paragraph 1b? Do you still have to maintain it in a logic of adaptation or are you convinced by the minister's response? Finally, behind the question, totally technical. Equilibrium: The first presentation mentioned that there were, in particular, vocations related to the ESA accounts. Could we not be a little more specific and see whether the evolution of this balance staffing and the risks that it is insufficient, given accountability, can have an impact on the ESA accounts and which ones? So that I can understand, at a more global budgetary level, what could it have as internal consequences at the level of the various entities, or even external ones, vis-à-vis Europe?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-13-54-commissie-ic562x.u32	I thank the various stakeholders who agreed to take the time necessary to help us understand the impacts of this bill. What is of fundamental concern to me is the paradigm shift in this bill. This is not a criticism when I say that there is a paradigm shift. Why not invent a new system, solidarity mechanisms that take account of the evolution of our society? But if we do it, we have to assume it. We have to say what we do, what we want to go to and how we want to go. I would have liked the various speakers, other than academics, to give their opinion. Even though I am also interested in academics complementing the opinions of other actors. Do you also realize that this bill fundamentally changes the way we organize social security, what we expect, what we give it as a mission and how we organize its funding? If that is not the case in your opinion, I would like to hear your arguments. I obviously don't want to go into the details, Georges Gilkinet did. Among the questions I would like to ask the various management partners, either health care or social security at the global level, is my first question. Today, there are tools, commissions and bodies, whose task is already to put management responsibility into practice. In the draft, it is said that these bodies are not sufficiently efficient, do not function well enough, and that tools such as these well-known functional commissions need to be put in place, etc. I would like to ask the various partners the following question. Do you also find that these bodies that exist today are not effective, do not work well, and that other bodies need to be set up? What are the characteristics of these other bodies that make these tools better than those that currently exist? I would like to understand why we are changing, what we want as differences, and to have the guarantee that it will be different and more efficient, via the new organs or tools put in place. Secondly, I would like to obtain more precise information, especially from the employers' representatives, on the tools available to you to assess compliance with the conditions laid down in the law so that there is budgetary participation through alternative financing or through balanced funding. Do you have the criteria that allow you to verify that the objectives are being achieved and that, therefore, there can be intervention and cover of expenditure and, consequently, balanced budget? If so, what are the means you have, each in your skills? I am, of course, targeting the fight against fraud, the extension of careers, GDP, but also a number of other conditions mentioned in the bill. What are your tools to evaluate and your tools to intervene and assume the responsibilities expected of you? Some seem to say that there is no problem with these elements of accountability and that they can assume them, while others say that they do not have the power and that they are held accountable for things that do not depend on them. With regard to the intervention of the majority partners, and I think it is important that you can give us your readings and your perceptions, I understand that what they are telling us is that the bill ensures that there will be balance, compensation and coverage in any case. As we talk about aging, anyway, everything would be covered all the time; we should not worry. What I understand from all that you have said is that there are cumulative conditions and conditions for intervention. If we guarantee balance at the end of the race, it will not be by bringing additional money since this is linked to a whole series of conditions, it will be rather by reducing spending, therefore, by reducing what is covered in health care as in other sectors of social security. Now, I think it's important that we have a shared understanding of what is contained in this bill so that we don't think we're worried about anything... or that we're reassured, if the other understanding is the right one. The last question is more about health care. It is clear from the discussions in this area that there are changes in the organisation of health care, in the coverage of health care needs and in the management of their budgets, and in the evolution of the population. Jean Hermesse cited some figures that clearly reveal the need for and the need for some time to forecast changes in these budgets along a curve other than that of the budget and GDP. I would just like to draw your attention to the fact that, with respect to the relationship with living and working conditions and environmental factors, what is known as the determinants of health, among which the socio-economic determinants, the Minister of Health told us that the government will begin to think about it – finally! - this year. And it is only in 2018 that the new health survey will begin. It is a pity that a reform of the system, which also concerns health care, excludes the information to be removed from these surveys. In this regard, I would have liked to know your opinion, in particular on the need to give ourselves time to have a real societal debate on these parameters and possibly to make balanced arrangements on living and economic conditions for 2017-2018. This is obviously part of the discussions we will have with the ministers. However, how far does the urgency of reform go, when these deadlines are known? Do you have an opinion on the matter?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-13-54-commissie-ic562x.u33	I would now like to give the floor to the various interveners. Mr Hermesse indicated that he had to leave the Chamber a little earlier. Mr Hermesse, I suggest that we start with you. A number of general questions have been asked to everyone as well as a number of specific questions. Please answer the questions you feel addressed to.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-13-54-commissie-ic562x.u34	Madam President, I apologise for having to leave the hearing earlier. However, I have another important obligation. Firstly, I would like to answer Mrs De Coninck, who asked the question to the sickness funds how they are opposed to the low growth standard. Mrs De Coninck, the Planning Bureau expects a growth of 2%. From the outset, the government decided that growth would be limited to 1,5% by 2019. At that time, however, we had a discussion on the Insurance Committee, where we reached an agreement with a narrow majority but still with a majority of care providers, in order to remain within the 1.5% standard. That wasn't easy. At the same time, however, a number of savings proposals were tabled to remain within that standard. A little later, the current government put a little bit more on top of it. In the end, by 2017, we will achieve a growth rate of 0.5 %. We have indeed voted against this proposal this year. After all, we were of the opinion that this standard is difficult to achieve. If it were feasible, we fear that there might be an increase in supplements or that there would be no convention, you can read in the newspapers today that this will also be the case. This is in fact the direction of a sneak-in privatisation. We may be able to control state or RIZIV expenditure. However, these expenses will be borne by the patient. So, overall, there is no control. It's the patients who will pay the difference. Carement is also being asked by some healthcare providers why no second pillar is being introduced. However, a second pillar makes the first pillar less efficient. A so-called second pillar, let alone a third pillar, is optional insurance. However, the global sum remains the same. We remain within the 10.2% limit of gross national product. However, the distribution is different: either it is supported by solidarity or it is only borne by, for example, those who can pay optional insurance or it is covered by employers in an extra-legal advantage. There are therefore a number of real needs. If we go far too low, measures will be taken, but the overall expenditure will remain. There is a shift to the burden of the patient or to the private insurers, who have shown no efficiency. In this context, I refer to optional hospitalisation insurance, for which EUR 1.5 billion are already being collected from the public and from employers. In addition, there is a growing increase in this amount of EUR 1.5 billion, without any control over or control over expenditure. They are therefore less efficient than compulsory health insurance. If we are above the budget, social security and global management must, of course, contribute. That is obvious, but it is not because they contribute, that this is the end of the business, because the patients are left with the invoice. It may be under global management control, but in the meantime, patients have higher invoices. I should like to comment briefly on the new features of the reform. There are two important innovations. One speaks of the equilibrium dose, but you should read it carefully, because it says: equilibrium dose after taking a number of responsive factors into account. That's new. That's not what it used to say. I have just made it clear that we are in favour of accountability, but after a well-discussed procedure, in which all the partners had their say on the so-called response factors. That must not be allowed to happen, because if it is just like that, it means that we have to decide and we have to implement it. So that's not a response. We are therefore calling for an amendment, as is the case now in health insurance, to set up a budgetary control committee in which the social partners are present. Its advice will then be sent to the management committees, which will then have to take corrective measures. That is what is happening within the RIZIV. And the second novelty, even if it concerns only the allocation, the state subsidy, is this reference to the ageing coefficient, which gives the false impression that we will actually follow, in staffing, the evolution of aging, whereas the parameters that are indicated here have nothing to do with it. And so, it still makes me laugh a bit when I'm told: "it takes money or this or that to actually always pay the cost". But what is the real cost of social security? It is a number of pensioners that will increase, with a pension that is not the highest. It is health care that will increase. And so, if these spending increases, there is a budgetary reality. And if we decide not to cover it, then we will have to reduce interventions linearly and, indeed, open the way to complementary assurances which, as I repeat, are less effective. There is a real social debate. Today, reducing the ageing coefficient to these two parameters is distorting the debate, it is not reality.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-13-54-commissie-ic562x.u35	Thank you very much, Mr Hermesse, and still have a good day. I suggest that we take the same order as you took the floor this morning.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-13-54-commissie-ic562x.u36	Madam President, there are a series of questions of a technical nature, let's say. In particular, several stakeholders questioned the functioning of balance staffing. Of course, the bill provides for accountability factors, but, as I said in my introductory statement, in practice, these factors will be considered in a budget conclave. At the level of the mechanism for calculating the amount of the balance allocation, this simply means that the calculation is made after a budgetary conclave. The amount is calculated to ensure the budgetary balance of two institutions: ONSS, on the one hand, and INASTI, on the other. On the understanding that the other public social security institutions are financed by the overall management according to their needs, therefore their financial balance is guaranteed by the overall management mechanism, the two institutions whose balance is not guaranteed, is ONSS, on the one hand, and INASTI, on the other. Therefore, the balance allocation will be calculated to balance the budget of these two institutions. [[(...): (...)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-13-54-commissie-ic562x.u37	Yes, after the budget conclave.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-13-54-commissie-ic562x.u38	And after political arbitration.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-13-54-commissie-ic562x.u39	After political arbitration, yes. As far as the link with the ESA methodology is concerned, there is a difference from the old balancing mechanism: The old balancing mechanism was intended to balance all social security schemes, as defined in the national accounts, and to balance the accounts drawn up in accordance with the ESA methodology, which in practice means that we look only at current accounts and not at capital accounts. As I said in my introductory statement, the ONSS, which had to borrow a large amount in 2010, has to repay this loan every year (€62 million) and this amount, this repayment was not covered by the old balance allocation, because it was based solely on the ESA methodology. Here, the new balance allocation aims to balance the total budget of ONSS, global management, current operations and capital operations, including the repayment of the €62 million loan. On the other hand, there is an exception at the level of capital transactions. Changes in investments are not taken into account. What does that mean? You know that ONSS, global management, has been a securities portfolio since the early 2000s. This portfolio earns interest on an annual basis and ONSS also realizes capital gains on this portfolio. These interests and capital gains are capitalized, which, in budgetary terms, results in an expenditure of capital. Indeed, if, with the interest and capital gains realized, you buy new OLA, you make an expense and the balance endowment will not cover this reserve increase. That is the only exception. For other capital operations, they will be covered. Thus, if you have read carefully the chapter on social security in the general statement of the 2017 budget, which has been drawn up taking into account this funding reform and in which a first calculation of the balance has been made, you see that it is indeed the budget of the ONSS, overall management, which is balanced, on the one hand, and the budget of the INASTI, on the other hand. But if we look at the whole of social security in SEC terms, it is not a balance but a bonus in 2017. I can't tell you the importance of this bonus anymore, but there's a bonus. Why? Because in addition to the two overall managements, there are other plans that are taken into account, including the provincial and local government pension plan, which, in 2017, is in bonus. At the level of social security as a whole, in dry terms, one does indeed have a result which is not null. I will move on to other questions that I have noted. There were specific questions about accountability factors. I will not answer these questions because accountability factors are a political choice for the government. As an administration, I cannot answer these questions. With regard to the tax shift, the question was raised several times as to whether or not negative returns had been taken into account. For this, reference should be made to the Plan Bureau's report, which calculated the return effects on the tax shift. The report is called "Net Return Effects". If you look at this report, there is a table in this report that mentions both positive feedback and negative feedback. Therefore, negative feedback has been taken into account. The question of whether the source of excise duty on tobacco is sufficient or not. And why not the professional discount, as was the case before and as the social partners had proposed? Again, it is a political choice, but I think that the argument for not retaining the occupational discount is that it also constitutes a burden on work and that the spirit of alternative financing is to finance social security other than by still taking on the labour factor. Another question that was asked was how we were involved in the drafting of this text. As an administration, it was only to answer technical questions or to "hold the pen". Yes, I think that's all the technical questions. There was also the balance staffing aspect that is much higher than conventional staffing. Again, it's a political choice. Technically, anything is possible. There you are, Madam President. On the SEC account, I answered. I think I have answered the questions that concerned me.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-13-54-commissie-ic562x.u40	I would like to go back to one or the other, perhaps not to mention some of them that have already been mentioned in the various speeches. First of all, it must be borne in mind that the insecurity we experienced during the transitional period and the fact that the balance was not given during those two years for the financing of social security, technically, in the short term, did not undermine the financing of social security, simply because there had been the Sixth State reform and a number of powers had been transferred to the Regions. Therefore, federal social security should no longer cover a certain number of expenses. In the short term, this insecurity we experienced with respect to the lack of balance staffing was not a problem. Nevertheless, this restoration of balance endowment in a stable, sustainable manner, and other elements that have been mentioned here (simplification, cuckoo eggs, etc.) were an integral part of the social partners' opinion of July 2015 and the urgency of the debate on the financing of social security was invoked. This debate cannot be denied, but there are other debates that have been avoided. There have been no debates, namely the debate on the impact of the increase in atypical forms of employment contracts and remuneration on the level of income, and thus on the financing of social security, or even the debate on the increase in revenue. In an arbitrary manner, I will list a series of debates that have not taken place on the impact of increases in certain wage benefits reducing social contributions and, hence, the funding of OTA security. These are flexi-jobs, student work, partly the mobility budget since some cash is possible, the reduction of the minimum wage of young people, even if it is said that social contributions will be increased, which remains to be seen, and also an attitude tending too quickly to convert gross wage benefits into alternative wage benefits. This debate did not take place here when this bill was drafted. What other debate did not take place? The responsibility of the social partners for a wide range of factors. A number of accountability factors for other actors such as the government have not been taken into account. And I would like to cite as an example the one I mentioned in my speech, namely the measures against tax evasion which are supposed to fuel social security, as well as the increase in the number of social workers, following government measures such as, for example, the raising of the legal age of the pension for which we have always said, as a trade union organisation, that this measure will have the effect of increasing, in certain branches of social security (incapacity for work or unemployment). Another debate that did not take place when the draft royal decree was drawn up was that the societal challenges to which social security had to respond had not been taken into account. So all this has not been discussed and we must seize these debates very quickly, but we are also here to initiate, I believe, the intellectual approach. Another point I wanted to highlight is that it is also related to the net return effects and the positive/negative return effects on the tax shift. We do not deny that there are some effects that have been taken into account, but there are a number of other effects that have not been taken into account, such as the fact that some insured persons will also be entitled to additional social benefits. Thus, consideration is given to the possible disappearance of replacement income, but it is not taken into account that those returning to the labour market will also create rights and that, de facto, there will also be additional expenditure on social security. Compared to the text now presented, it must nevertheless be admitted that some notions remain very little explicit, and this is certainly the case with accountability factors. But this is especially the case with a number of principles, mechanisms that are not guaranteed in the bill. It has also been pointed out that Articles 23 and 24 provide for a prior political route for the determination of balance and that these articles also do not provide for the extension of this allocation, except by the publication of a royal decree after debate in the Council of Ministers. There is therefore no guarantee on these elements, nor on the amount nor on the extension of this balance allocation. These are the elements I wanted to add.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-13-54-commissie-ic562x.u41	Madam President, I will make a few considerations, answer a few questions that have been asked. Anne Léonard said a lot of things that I also want to discuss and share. Briefly, with regard to what is indicated as improper measures, cuckoo eggs are referred to here. The bill, it must be recognized, deals with a number of issues. Most of the items are settled, but there are still a number of issues that are not addressed through these elements and considered to be inappropriate measures, linked to the training fund, and non-compensatory premiums for police areas. There are a few things that remain unresolved, and that is what is mentioned here. As far as the volume effects are concerned, we must be clear: the questions must be put to the government. According to our interpretation of these volume effects, the government's idea would be to see an increase in the number of recipients and to object to an increase in the number of recipients per branch, and if the government believes that there are too many, it is no longer to fill the gaps. This is what lies behind these discussions of volume effects, with all the dramatic consequences that would arise if ever it were applied. Of course, the core of the problem that is regularly cited is this accountability mechanism that, as has been said, is not accountability; that is what we see as double penalties. I repeat again that accountabilities are in the branches. There are systematic accountabilities in the branches. Here, it is not a super-accountability, it is considered a double penalty. And that is where there is a problem since reference has been made to Article 23. Mr Clarinval said, "It's all right, it's settled because it says that the budget balance will be found in all cases, with an accountability mechanism." So, through political instrumentalization, that's the problem! The crux of the problem is where the dialogue must take place. It is targeted, it is our interpretation and it is in this way that we perceive things. So, as Mrs Gerkens said, if we have to have clarifications and appeasements, we might as well have them. Fears lie at this level. Partly, we cannot address these accountability factors. We won't be able to do anything. For others, and this is where we are talking about the supervision of the security, unfortunately, when it is written black and white that social security must contribute to the respect of budgetary objectives - which have nothing to do with the security - if there have been financial drifts in terms of filling for X or Y reasons, but that we are responsible for the security, it is a supervision of it. When it is said that any social agreement is part of these agreements, it is indeed a guardianship. In one case, we are told that "if there is a budget overrun, you will take care of it". I have taken examples on penitibility. If we ever manage to prove - because it is the objective that was assigned to us - that there is an impact on health to define budgets for penitibility... Here, a budget has already been set. If we can prove that we need additional resources through this modality, we will have to compensate by reducing benefits. The question will have to be put to the government. This is our interpretation, but there are no other avenues: it is a reduction in social security benefits. Get back around a table and talk. We have been consulted on overall management. That's right. The problem is that, as Anne Léonard said, the number of topics that have not been addressed, although some have, is a very long list. She's been quoted. Yes, we are always ready to dialogue, find formulas and see the effects of aging. Of course, we need to talk about the method in terms of the ageing coefficient. We have a serious problem with the way it is worded. To talk about the effects of ageing and the necessary adaptations, yes, we must discuss it, but not how it is formulated. I would really like to say that, if there is a problem - I often like to look at the origin of a problem rather than its consequences - and we are led to find complementary means, the origin is that the problem of financing the security is due to revenue cuts, as a result of measures taken by the government. I repeat that the tax shift - it is not an ideological positioning, but a simple accounting reading, and I invite you to read the figures for the securit - is not compensated. This is therefore a serious problem. It is decisions made by the government that lead us to funding problems and also structural - we refer to health care. That's the cause of the problem. Besides, we are held accountable with a double penalty that is not acceptable. A theme was not addressed. Are we ready - here I am aiming at the tripartite - to put ourselves around a table to discuss another tax? I read Paul De Grauwe's post in De Morgen on Monday. Paul De Grauwe is not a left-wing economist. He says runoff theory doesn't work. Are we ready to discuss the progressivity of income tax and wealth tax? We said that with the track of the professional discount, we touch the job, which is why we don't want it. Are we ready to earn capital? Even right-wing economists say so. The theory of runoff doesn't work. Are we ready to aim for another lead? You have to get around a table to discuss all possible avenues. As far as we are concerned, we are ready to do so. I come to the question of the meeting with Mr Peeters. I read it in the press, but we were not invited to meet Mr Peeters. As regards the assessment of the reductions in contributions and the loss of earnings for the secu, Anne Léonard spoke on this subject. We're doing it. This changes very quickly because the imagination is fertile in this matter. The new fashion is the warrants. Executives are told to sign a paper in which they refuse their bonus and instead take it in the form of warrants to avoid paying contributions. Imagination is very fertile. It is obvious that an update should be made. But we had a common opinion. Here I would like to stress the integrity of employers at this level. There was a common view that anything related to contribution reductions should be offset by alternative financing. These elements therefore need to be updated. Indeed, I repeat that some people have a lot of imagination. This is an important element that has been pointed out, it is said that contributions represent only two thirds of the funding. Contributions represent 71% of the funding. I recall the agreement: everything that is alternative financing compensates for reductions in contributions. It's a deal that's been made. There are also 17 per cent. If we add 71 and 17, that's 88%. Of course, social security belongs to the social partners. I would remind you that 88% are related to this. This is therefore an important element in the discussion. And there is a need for clarity on alternative financing. The question should be asked of the government. How does it envisage the eventual globalization of basic alternative financing, tax shift-related alternative financing? Am I trying intent? Maybe. I don't know. But, in my opinion, fog is created and there is no traceability. We don't know where the problem comes from. I repeat that the problem comes in particular from the non-compensation of the tax shift. Let's move to "inter". Has the minister's response reassured us? Not at all. There are links to accountability. Of course, therefore, we are not reassured. This is the nerve of war. Are we aware of what a fundamental model change involves? Of course. And I repeat, it breaks the original objectives for which the security was created. I was rereading some of the elements on the creation of the security system, saying that "when the social security system was put in place, the bodies were raised". People have regained their dignity. I have the firm conviction that if we do not change this reform, the bodies will start fighting again, and the dignity of the workers will disappear. It's a social issue. I have heard the calls to say: "Let's try to overcome a little the beacons, the borders that sometimes divide us, and let's see the general interest on this social security, on dignity and on the fact that the bodies must continue to recover."
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-13-54-commissie-ic562x.u42	Thank you, Madam President. Indeed, we will both take the floor for a moment. The VBO and UNIZO were indeed mentioned at various times as the great defender of that bill. It is true that we support that bill, and rightly so. That is the correct conclusion from our statement. I think it would be useful, without repeating myself, to indicate what is essential in that bill. It guarantees the financing of social security. We have asked a number of questions about alternative financing, about balancing and about the state grant, and these questions are answered. In a letter, the government has also made this clear. Do we feel excluded as social partners? The answer to that question is no. There will be a technical committee within the global management. That committee is not being set up, but it already exists today. It is reported to global management and to the social partners within that global management. So I do not see to what extent we would be put out of play. There is no paradigmashift, as has been mentioned here several times. It's basically just the explication of what's already happening today, and the objectivating and further professionalizing of a monitoring that's being put on hold. I do not see the great dangers that some people see in that bill. I see only the guarantees offered by the government.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-13-54-commissie-ic562x.u43	I can supplement that. Several members have asked how the new balancing mechanism, with the contribution of the response factors, will work in practice. We understand that this is how it works. The prefiguration shall fix a provisional amount of the equilibrium dose. At the time when the budget was drawn up and subsequently when the various budgetary controls were carried out, it will be determined what the result of the two overall management, which is the actual situation, is whether or not there are deficits. I do not think that any government will leave it alone as a notary in the event of an unforeseen increase in expenditure or an unforeseen reduction in funding. There will always, line by line in the budget, be examined to see whether measures should be taken and in which posts. For me, the mechanism of the response factors is nothing other than that: within the social security budget, consider what is happening, whether or not action should be taken, and if so, what measures. After that exercise the result will be different: more positive or perhaps more negative. Perhaps the government will decide to make some additional expenditure or to reduce revenue. A new result will be established and the equilibrium dose will be adjusted to that result. I do not therefore see what is negative about this for social security, because the result is that there will be neither a deficit nor a surplus. I do not think that this is a totally new mechanism that suddenly falls out of the sky. Ultimately, this is the explication of a practice of budget design and budgetary control. As Mrs Bettens says, speaking of a paradigm shift because of this explication is simply not right. This draft law does what the social partners have asked for: a return to the financing of social security as it existed before 2014, with all the balances and relationships of before 2014. It is about the balance between alternative financing, state grant, balancing donation and contributions from employers and employees. This was very important to us. The question was also asked as to why the three different forms were maintained. For us, that was very important. As a result of the sixth state reform, expenditure has disappeared from global management and as a result all balances have been upset. We have returned to the fact that contributions are paid by employers and employees. Contribution reductions were subsequently granted which were offset by alternative financing. In addition, there is a basic richness grant and the deficit is covered by an equilibrium dose. It is important, however, to allow this to exist as a separate source. This also has its symbolic value. I believe that we all have to realise that social security is a living thing that is evolving. There are very important challenges that depend on the evolution of that expenditure. By explicating this through the amount of the balancing dose, this is not simply swept under the mat, but it is made very clear that expenditure is increasing and that this is not always so obvious. Do we feel excluded as social partners? Not at all! Neither as an employer's organization nor as a self-employed organisation do we feel excluded from the overall management of the employees or the self-employed. The committee responsible for monitoring expenditure and collecting purely statistical data already exists today de facto. If this were not monitored so closely today, there would be a problem. We will continue to meet in the global management committees, at least on a quarterly basis. The new legislation will provide us with even more rapid information on developments that are worrying. Then, of course, it is also the responsibility of the social partners if they want to accept it. In particular, I hope that we will meet more quickly and that we may propose measures to intervene. We're not being sidelined at all. I dare even say that we have a greater responsibility than we do today. We have already made agreements, both within the overall management of the employees and of the self-employed, that we have new tasks and that we will have to reorganise ourselves within the overall management to closely monitor this additional responsibility and do so even better than before. We need to engage even more. The temporality of the dotation of equilibrium was as mentioned there was also in the past. In my first speech I tried to explain that, in our view, no one would benefit from the fact that there would no longer be a dotation of balance from 2020. I believe that this is not at all the intention of this government, nor is it the intention of the next governments. 'Cause what happens if there's no equilibrium dose? Then there is a big gap in the financing of social security. Expenditure continues to go on and then loans have to be made, and interest must be paid. This only creates additional costs, which no one benefits from. This is why an equilibrium dose has been granted in the past and why it will be so in the future. In this respect, we are once again in the situation before 2014, with a temporary dose of balance. I would just like to mention the fact that the contributions from paragraph 1b have been exceeded. Some questions have been asked about this, including by Mrs De Coninck. The social partners in global management have discussed for a long time what was the result of the government's failure to respond to our demand to adapt 1ter. As I explained, our opinion of July 2015 was based on the then situation of the calculation of the balance settlement Any overrun of the contributions from paragraph 1b, which would bring the invoice to global management, could not be covered. Just technically, because the equilibrium dose is recorded at the prefiguration and is not recalculated afterwards. So if there is an invoice in the middle of the year, or even after the accounts have been closed, that refers to the year that has already been closed, it can no longer be arranged. In the new situation, where the equilibrium dose is recalculated on a quarterly basis, this will no longer occur. The reason why we asked for the amendment of paragraph 1b has then disappeared. The representative of the government in the global administration has also explicitly confirmed that if there is a breach of the standard of health care which we hope will not be the case, and I also understand that everything is being done to ensure that it does not happen. I am indeed reassured by this explicit confirmation. The reserve source of alternative financing. We had indeed proposed in our opinion of July 2015 that it would be the company tax. I have to say, we did not have an incredible argument for this, why it had to be the company tax. We took a source and suggested it. The government would rather not have answered us the company tax, because that has to do with labour charges, we are proposing a different source. That seems to me to be a valid argument. It is now being examined whether the source of excise duty on tobacco is sufficient. For the time being, this seems to be the case and we have a margin of 50% of the amount of alternative funding we need. Further risk analysis is, of course, always good. I do not think there will be any major problems there. I think I have answered all the points. Perhaps a short word about the ageing rate of the national allowance. On the one hand, I would like to nuance the debate. In the past, the State grant amounted to EUR 6.4 billion. This has now fallen to EUR 1.9 billion, 1.9 from around EUR 70 billion of expenditure under global management. The debate on the coefficient of ageing must therefore be changed. There are all the other sources of funding of alternative funding that evolve with different parameters and then there is the ageing coefficient that the State grant can or cannot increase. As social partners, we have not asked to do so. That's what's happening now. This can only be positive for the financing of social security. We regard it as a positive incentive to achieve that economic growth, to combat early retirement, but not more or less than that. I think that the consequences will also be limited in view of the limited amount of the national grant within the overall amount of funding.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-13-54-commissie-ic562x.u44	Madam President, I will speak in telegraphic style, because I know you have other duties. First of all, Mr Clarinval, I did not say that the social partners were placed under supervision, but that they were excluded, which is different; contrary to what Mrs has just said about the role of trade unions in overall management. There is overall management as there is an overall management committee. If some members don't do anything about it, that's not my problem. The reality is that this management committee is made up of the social partners with consultative voice, mutualities, plus heads of ministerial departments and managers of the various administrations. What's better? Mr Clarinval, I would like to see an additional commission set up – as the law states – for employees and self-employed people, but why not strengthen the role of the tripartite management committee in the overall management of social security? That's my goal. On the one hand, we are trying to re-design the administrations and avoid the costs that go with all this and, on the other, we are saying that it is good. There is also, informally, but not legally, a monitoring committee which prepares all the work. It is up to you (the employers' representatives) to play your part in the Global Management Committee! When I was chairman of the management committee, I did not often hear the voice of some of the social partners. A question was asked by Mr. Daerden on staffing. In relation to what Mrs Fonck said, there are now three types of grants. First, there was balance staffing, which had existed for years – I have always known it. Why was there a state allocation alongside social security contributions? Because there were so-called social illnesses and some solidarity factors were not taken into account by social security contributions. There is therefore a basic subsidy from the State. Then there were reductions in employers' social security contributions. Mr Deffect, I am speaking under your control, but it currently amounts to $7.7 billion. This is more than the amount of unemployment benefits. These amounts are granted without any control or accountability for the $7.7-billion grant. I am not discussing this, it is the decision that has been taken, but when it comes to accountability, I wonder why, with regard to the 7.7 billion reduction in social contributions granted in the name of the competitiveness of companies, there is not also a hope of accountability in the employer's bank. I understand that you agree with the text, we are solely responsible for expenditure! But you, you contemplate the damage. You say, "All you have to do is pay." Regardless of this controversy about staffing, Mrs. Fonck, I think you're right. This is a rather fundamental problem. There was a basic state subsidy. And then we added the balance endowment. Why? Because the purpose of Mrs Onkelinx's balanced allocation was, in a way, to help social security in times of crisis. This is the period 2010-2011. And then, it was acted on by the government, which included it in its government statement until 2014. Besides, the new government didn't put this back on the agenda. The result of the races, of course, is that now, social security... the balance was over $5 billion. 2.8 billion were exhausted in 2016 by alternative financing. And there is still 2.2 billion deficits. The deficit still exists, Mr. Vercamer. There is still a deficit of 2.2 billion in social security, which is going to worsen and which we are going to have to wipe out by borrowing. With all the consequences we've had at a certain time. I knew the time when there were 15 billion Belgian francs borrowed from social security. I think what you're saying is a little well-founded. That is to say, the state subsidy had to be structurally designed for the future with a merger, with a balance endowment. I would not put alternative funding in this same endowment. Why? Because alternative financing is intended to compensate for reductions in social security contributions to employers. I hope that one day, this allocation to employers may be somewhat reduced, and thus adapted to the reality on the ground. These are the few considerations I wanted to make. As far as funding is concerned, I would like to say something that I still care about, which I repeat on every occasion. The whole concept of remuneration that exists, with all the exemptions that exist for social security contributions, total or partial, amounts to billions of euros. Since you're talking about the Social Security Management Committee, he's opposed to publishing a performance document... yes, ma'am, and I've got it... I've been president.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-13-54-commissie-ic562x.u45	Sorry, but we should not start the internal discussions of global management here, with all the arguments for and against. I don't think this is the place.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-13-54-commissie-ic562x.u46	As far as funding is concerned, I still have the right to say that there are billions that are exempt from social security contributions and that there is an artistic blur in this area, and that there is a document on the performance of these social security contributions in terms of group insurance, corporate cars, GPS, cheques, etc. And that, we can provide the numbers, but I'm not gonna do it, because I'm bound by professional secrecy.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-13-54-commissie-ic562x.u47	Thank you, Mr. Jadot. Finally, I give the floor to Mrs Vielle. Please.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-13-54-commissie-ic562x.u48	Thank you, Madam President. I have been lent several times the fact that I said it was a paradigm shift. I really wanted to make it clear, as I said earlier, that for me, the law is not a paradigm shift, but the keystone of a paradigm shift. The key to the vault is really the one that, when you remove it, everything collapses, and it's the one that consolidates everything else. This paradigm shift is made up of small and large measures, which are there, which are taking place behind each other and which were already almost all foreseen in the government declaration. Therefore, this law is essential for the cohesion of the whole. This allows me to respond to Mr. Clarinval. Mr Clarinval, you asked me, on the one hand, to refer to ways of reforming social security. And then you pointed out that I did not take sufficient account of the competitiveness and the importance of reducing social contributions for this competitiveness, if I understood your intervention correctly. I just wanted to tell you right away that I'm not a tax fetishist at all. There are, but I'm not. I think that at the very moment when we are in the world, not only in Belgium but also in Belgium, it is important to get around the table to measure the transition we are experiencing and the need to adapt social security to this transition. So, what should we start with? By determining the purpose of this social security. And you will agree with me that the goal cannot be "supporting competitiveness". This has never been the aim of a social security system. A social security system is there to meet social needs.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-13-54-commissie-ic562x.u49	That is the consequence.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-13-54-commissie-ic562x.u50	Excuse me. It is there to meet social needs. It's quite simple, if you put as your primary goal "support competitiveness", then the best social security system, if you want to support competitiveness with China for example, it's "no social security". There you go. To be quite clear, the primary aim of social security is something else: to meet social needs. At least let's agree on that. If we do not agree on this, there is no even need to debate this institution. That's why she's here, first of all. When one has defined and identified these social needs, when one has chosen which ones deserve a collective effort to meet them, when one has chosen the model of solidarity that one wants to put in place to meet them, then one can start discussing financing, actors, etc. At that time, the question of competitiveness may eventually arise. At that time. It's so simple. Otherwise, it is better not to make social security. That's my point of view. I don't know how we can get out of this way of thinking. I do not see how competitiveness can be put as the ultimate objective of social security. I think it is very interesting to list the debates that have not taken place so far, as Mrs Léonard has done, because I believe that a Parliament is still serving that purpose. When we discuss such an important institution, I believe there is a need to put things down, to have a real fundamental discussion with all the components of civil society, starting with the unions that have been the guarantor of this institution since the beginning of its foundation. Mr Vercamer, you are questioning my scientific expertise. I do not think that a constructive debate can be based on an ad personam attack. I didn't find it particularly elegant. You're asking me what my numbers are. I understand that you feel reassured by figures and that you believe in the scientific value of the figures, but the debates so far have shown that there is nothing less objective and more political than a figure. There are other sciences than economics, in reality. For my part, I am studying social security from the point of view of law, of governance, and I am basing myself, since you are asking me what I am relying on, on the text of the law, on the explanatory memorandum, on phrases such as, with regard to balance staffing, in the explanatory memorandum: "The contribution of social security will also be taken into account in the achievement of budgetary objectives as determined in the stability text. In the coming years, entity 1 will need to improve its structural balance. The contribution of social security to this improvement will be established annually and will be taken into account." From there, a number of things can be deduced. In the same way, a little further, in the commentary by article, we read very explicitly and in several places: "The decisions that are taken in this context to fill or not slippages", always with regard to balance staffing, "are in any case the subject of political arbitration." And so that's what I'm deducing – and I'm going back to that, because it may seem to me to be the most important point – that this law is a law of governance whose purpose is to constantly redefine a downward balance, through a timetable, a new institution, conditionality and instability of revenues and a requirement of balance at the end of the process. I can't say that more clearly. Maybe you're deducing my lack of scientificity from my vehemence. It is true that I am committed and passionate about this subject. I've been studying it for 25 years. I wanted to say to Mr. Daerden, you said, "But how can we make the real people responsible?" It is true that if we consider a return of the tax shift insufficient, a fight against social fraud whose effects are overestimated, a growth of 1.5% that would not be achieved, we could imagine that simply accountability consists of increasing the state's contribution to social security. It's as simple as that. That, in my opinion, would be a responsibility.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-13-54-commissie-ic562x.u51	I have already noted that Mrs De Coninck and Mr Clarinval would like to replicate. Are there any fellow Members who would like to do that? May I point out, however, that we have already exceeded a great deal of time. It is a very important debate, but the people are already ready for the next important hearing, so please a balanced reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-13-54-commissie-ic562x.u52	Madam President, without wishing to enter into a sterile controversy, I would simply like to repeat things clearly. I have never said that social security is just about competitiveness. On the contrary, I come from the employers' world and I know very well that competitiveness is not just wage policy. There are energy factors that enter into competitiveness. There is a whole series of labour market flexibilities that are also important. Pay is only part of competitiveness. But this is obviously one of the most important elements. This is probably the most fundamental element in determining whether an economy is competitive. And so, to caricature my remarks, as Mrs. Vielle just did, is not correct. On the other hand, as an academic, not voluntarily taking into account a fundamental element, namely competitiveness, is not an academic analysis. It is obviously an analysis that is ideologically biased. If there is no competitiveness, there is no social security either. We need to be well aware of that! It's because of social security contributions... To disregard this element in the overall analysis that is done is to completely bias the analysis. That's a little too bad.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-13-54-commissie-ic562x.u53	More specifically, I am addressing the ladies of VBO and Unizo. For the sake of clarity, I read in those texts that the equilibrium dose will always be determined after the evaluation of the response criteria. I know that you attach great importance to internal logic and logical construction, but if you are in favour of accountability, then I would like to make the exercise with regard to the tax shift. Half of the tax shift has been carried out, i.e. the tax reduction on labour. One can be in favour or against, but imagine that we are in favour. A shift means moving it to something else, but it didn't happen. It has been said that there would be payback effects, namely by reducing labour costs there would be more jobs, and because there are more jobs there would be a contribution to social security, that is the reasoning. This is not happening right now. After all, jobs are created, but for a number of jobs people do not pay for social security; they are exempted in all kinds of ways. Who's responsible for that? Who are you going to respond to in this story? The employers who got the cut but didn't create enough jobs? Or the government that decided to do so? Or the employees who might not get a job? I would like an answer to that.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-13-54-commissie-ic562x.u54	Briefly, I would just like to say, and I must only address the representatives of Unizo and FEB-VBO, since you are almost the only ones who believe that the conditions to be met in order to be responsible and secure sustainable funding, stable, etc.... You are the only ones who say that it is good, but you do not answer the question, and you do not present the tools you have to check how these conditions are met, by whom and with what impact. It is as if you had absolute confidence in pieces of phrase, of which no one here can answer clearly, and with which, no one here agrees, to be sure of his understanding of it. It's pretty amazing. Either you know everything and you don't want to tell us anything, or you buy a cat in a bag, with the risk of eventually definancing social security.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-13-54-commissie-ic562x.u55	Take a look at the draft law, because we were just told by Mrs De Coninck that the employers would have written it. This is even true for one piece, because 95% of the draft law is exactly what the social partners unanimously asked for in their opinion of July 2015. Exactly what we have asked for, with the amounts, the percentages and the sources, as we have asked them to do. A few things have changed. The discussion which we are having, and which is more concerned with trade unions than with us, is about the factors of response to the problem of balance. However, we have also discussed for a long time how to interpret this. We have asked the representative of the government within the social security management committee whether there will always be a balance within the overall management of workers. We have, of course, asked for the same thing for the self-employed. There was an unequivocal response to that. I don't know what else you want. The amount of the balancing dose itself will, of course, depend on the policy pursued by the government, but that does not alter the fact that there will always be a balance. As I said earlier, the situation is being determined. After that, the government goes into conclave. This is neutral with regard to possible savings. That's government policy. As social partners, we do not really have anything to do with this. That's government policy. There will be successive governments taking the same or other decisions. In any case, there will be a result afterwards and that result will be converted into a dotation of equilibrium which will ensure that there is no deficit, no surplus, in the overall management of employees. So when it comes to financing social security and making social security accounts sound, I am reassured as social security manager. Another question is a political debate on the measures taken by the government. Are there measures at all, what measures are there, do we like them, do you like them, are they savings? However, that is not what the present draft is about. This draft is about whether the social security bill is correct. However, it is important to bear in mind that the social security entity 2 and also the overall management of employees and the overall management of the self-employed are on their own. The pure funding and budget section is a bit of a bubble. There is funding, including, for example, funding that covers the tax shift. However, this does not say anything about the financing of the tax shift in its globality, because the tax shift has many different shutters, including a reduction in employees' contributions, tax cuts for employees and so on. However, the draft law before us only deals with the various sources of funding that go to the separate social security budget to cover expenditure there and to ensure that the accounts are correct. So it does not rule, does not rule, whether or not savings are being made, and what measures are being taken. That has absolutely nothing to do with that. We gave the advice of the social partners in July 2015 as managers. It was then about the rather abstract aspect of funding and sources of funding rather than about the various possible measures that the government could take in the context of budgetary controls. That, I think, is the answer to the questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-13-54-commissie-ic562x.u56	Mrs. Fonck, you'd like to respond.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-13-54-commissie-ic562x.u57	Madam President, I thank the various speakers, whether they are academic experts or experts as social partners, for all the answers that have been given. You say that 95% of what was decided by the social partners is in the law. But it's not the number of words added, maybe the 5% of words added, that counts. It is obviously in relation to the principles and the stakes involved. I can understand your point of view. You're saying, basically, what we're doing here is just accounting balance. Indeed, it is a balanced budget. This is where you basically question me because, for me, a financing law on social security is not just a budgetary balance. I would like to say how much I am concerned that an employer is saying that tomorrow we will have a law on the financing of social security, where it is no longer the social partners who will really be heading. What you're saying is true, it's going to be that tomorrow. There will be balance, there will be balance staffing after the government has decided and the government has decided on measures. We're planing for balance. Look at the illustration of the 2017 health care budget, that's it. In other words, the government stands at 0.5 per cent rather than 1.5 per cent of the growing standard despite the government agreement, despite needs that are probably four times higher on the basis of the Plan Bureau's projection. So, of course, for that to be fair in terms of numbers, there is no choice: a series of measures are taken in terms of reducing reimbursement for patients. And here, I understand better, that's the logic. Personally, I am speaking and I see things for social security, tomorrow, in another logic, a logic where the social partners are in joint management, where they are still in manoeuvre to be able to make decisions together, decisions that are fundamental, and where they are not only there to implement the government's budgetary decisions. On the other hand, there is another aspect which is the choice between a social security model for tomorrow where we also assume needs related to ageing and to the reality of the explosion of the cost of health care (new technologies, innovation and others) and a social security model where, ultimately, the choice is to revise everything downwards. Now I understand your perception of things better. It is true that you see the balance of numbers. Before this, fundamental questions need to be asked in relation to the social security and social model. In the end, some positions are probably different on the substance. I must admit that an employer is saying that it prefers the government to choose instead of maintaining the essential role of the social partners in important management choices. Obviously, that's not the message you sent us.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-13-54-commissie-ic562x.u58	First of all, I thank you again for your interventions. I am sorry that some of my colleagues in the majority were able to question a few experts. Don't worry: when you're running out of arguments, what do you do? Instead of responding scientifically, calmly, serenely, in a sustained way, the experts are called into question. It's easier. It's not honorable, but it's easier. So don't worry about my colleague's attitude. Secondly, I have the same conviction as Mrs Fonck on the role of the social partners. You know my experience and know I believe it. Whether it is for employers or for workers' representatives, I note that Belgium has this model of development thanks to this dialogue which I find extraordinary, as you have just demonstrated with the last inter-professional agreement that you have proposed. We also experienced it at other very important times. While Belgium was going particularly badly, without government for months and months, you continued to get around the table and propose solutions together. It's an extraordinary model! Today, accepting to diminish, for some, and to exclude, for others, the role of the social partners in the management of social security is totally incomprehensible. Where I'm right is that some of the elements of the project are good. It is not to be said that everything is to be thrown away, you said it yourself. On these famous "cuckoo eggs" or on simplification or what is done following the sixth reform of the state – it was asked by everyone, and you did – we will not contest what was necessary. What's done with the cuckoo eggs should have been done in the past. You do it now, and it's fine. We must therefore say and stress that. On the other hand, where one does not understand, it is when one repeats this sentence to wish: "In any case, financing is guaranteed." You said it several times. It's incomprehensible. Because no, he's not guaranteed! Otherwise, there would be no accountability factor, etc. That's not true! You have a problem in the first compartment, the basic endowment, including the coefficient for aging. You have a problem with alternative financing. All the social partners had said that they preferred to take, in terms of reserve, the professional discount rather than the excise duty on tobacco. You have a problem with the balance, because the social partners carry the result of policies that you did not want yourself to do. What does that mean when it's guaranteed? If there is a shortage of money, it will be guaranteed if, on your knees, you accept the reforms, including the reduction of the protection imposed by the government. It is within this framework that it will be guaranteed. But this is not a guarantee of maintaining quality social security as it is currently proposed. That is why I do not agree with you at all and I believe that the role of the social partners and the guarantee of social security in our society is fundamentally changed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-13-54-commissie-ic562x.u59	Our role, as social partners, does not change. We're the social security managers. In the past, it was. That will be the case in the future, but you must not think that this means that we decide anything in social security ourselves. In order to take concrete measures within the different branches, there are always laws and regulations. We have an advisory power with regard to the government. We can make agreements, but they must be transposed into laws and regulations. That doesn't change anything. Our role remains the same. We can propose measures to the government or we cannot do that either. Nothing's gonna change that. If so, I would be worried too, but that is not the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-13-54-commissie-ic562x.u60	I believe that we can conclude with that. I would particularly like to thank all the speakers for being here for so long, as well as for the quality of the content of the speeches and the debate that has taken place. The next hearings start in five minutes, 2:50 p.m.
