ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic765x.u1	Mr President, Minister, a few weeks ago a 23-year-old student was murdered in Liège by a repeatedly convicted offender. If we can believe the media coverage, this recidivist has been free since 2015, but has been wearing an electronic anklet for another five years. The victim had previously filed a complaint against him with the police, but apparently no action was taken. You know my point of view on ankle bracelets. Not only do they not have any deterrent effect on criminals, but this horrific incident once again shows that this lax anklet regime also poses real danger in practice. You have repeatedly said in the past that rapists should be punished more severely and that criminal law will be reviewed for this purpose, but in the meantime we have to establish in practice that convicted rapists do not even serve their sentences and walk around with an ankle bracelet. Mr. Secretary, can you confirm the information that appeared in the press about the student's murderer in Liège? Secondly, do you think it is normal that after warning and complaint to the police the ankle bracelet regime was not changed? Thirdly, when can we expect the announced stricter penalties for rapists? Finally, how many incidents need to occur before you finally step away from the lax and life-threatening ankle strap regime, which has unfortunately become the rule in the meantime rather than the exception?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic765x.u2	Mr President, Minister, I will no longer go back to the painful and dramatic circumstances that have been recalled by my colleague. Instead, I will discuss the monitoring of relations between the Liège police services and the judiciary, in particular the prosecutor's office. I would also like to recall that there had been a precedent since, in February 2015, the victim had lodged a complaint with the local police against her neighbour for presenting herself in an unrespectful manner to her interlocutor, a complaint which was not brought to the attention of the Liège Public Prosecutor's Office or the House of Justice in charge of following up the suspect's case, which was known to the judicial services. On the grounds that the neighbour had in the meantime apologized, the Liège police did not write a report, but an internal fact sheet to the police, the police officer having received the student considering that she did not want to file a complaint, but merely to report unhealthy behaviour. It would have been necessary, however, to draw up a report to be transmitted to the Prosecutor's Office, in the light of the elements contained in the BNG. In fact, the neighbour was on parole on charges of morals and offending the morals of walking in the simplest apparatus in the common corridor of an apartment or building. This case therefore raises the question of the follow-up of sex offenders – this is a problem that I know to be difficult, but for which there may not yet be sufficient will in terms of the police and judicial authorities –, a fortiori when they are on parole or made available to the sentencing court. Indeed, while the fight against sexual violence is carried out with the help of the ViCLAS database containing information on sexual offences, it is insufficiently fed, in particular because of the low quality of some of the reports, but also insufficiently consulted. In the past, you have stated that you would like to be the initiator of a policy of monitoring sex offenders more shared by the various actors and of strengthening the prevention of recidivism. Minister, how many files does the ViCLAS database contain? What is the proportion of cases with known and unknown authors among them? Could the effectiveness of this database not be improved by removing the requirement for local (but also federal) police services to refer to the reference services, the bilingual ZAM (Zeden-Analyse-Mœurs) service, to search the database? This would allow decentralized local or federal police services to access the file themselves when filing a sexual behaviour complaint. If not, should the consultation of the BNG in the event of a complaint, a fortiori in cases of sexual assault, in which it is known that victims are particularly vulnerable and subject to threats and intimidation, not be mandatory? This new drama demonstrates the importance of monitoring sex offenders in the fight against recidivism. Does it not lead you to consider refinancing the country's various support centres accordingly? I have already spoken a lot about this. It is well known that budget cuts have been decided in this sector, and in particular within the Brussels Support Centre (CAB), even if the latter is not competent for the acts committed in Liège.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic765x.u3	Mr President, Mrs Pas, Mr Maingain, the recent murder of the student in Liège is a horrible crime, which has shocked us all deeply. I would therefore like to express my condolences to the family affected and to the friends of the victim. The court case is ongoing. This requires my reluctance to communicate on this individual case. However, the Attorney General of Liège informed me of the following elements. First, the unsub was in charge of his main sentence of parole since 2010 by a decision of the Liege Criminal Court. This probationary period was extended by five years in 2015 by the execution of the additional penalty for the posting of the criminal execution court. This additional probationary release is referred to in the 2006 Law on the external legal status of convicted persons as "supervised release', not "under electronic supervision'. Secondly, the unsub has indeed, unlike previous media reports, never been subject to electronic surveillance. His criminal situation was recorded in the Police General National Data Bank. The Chief of Police, the Department of Justice and the Public Prosecutor's Office also had the details of the exemption and the conditions attached thereto, as required by law. Thirdly, as a condition for his release under supervision, he had to follow a therapeutic guidance which was terminated by the criminal court on 2 March this year after a favourable report by the psychiatrist. Fourth, in February 2015, the lamented victim reported to the Liège police about a suspicious behaviour of the person concerned. However, only an information sheet was drawn up on this subject and not a report. The victim refused to file a complaint. Consequently, the public prosecutor was never informed of this incident, and thus not of the criminal enforcement court. On the basis of the information available, the judicial follow-up of the data subject appears to have been a priori correct. However, it seems to me above all fundamental that perpetrators of sexual offences should be monitored sufficiently long, if not permanently, in some cases. In this regard, I refer to the importance of the support centres for the monitoring and supervision of sex offenders, which I continue to fund through grants – taking into account the budgets available to me. In order to continue to ensure and even to strengthen their functioning, I call on the Communities to review and update the cooperation agreements and the financing arrangements. With regard to sentences for sexual violence, I would like to point out that they are already heavy and that the revision of sentencing rates is also the subject of the work of the Committee of Experts on Criminal Law, which is preparing a new Book II of the Criminal Code. I hope that at the beginning of 2018 I will be able to submit a new draft of the Criminal Code to the Committee on Justice. There is doubt, however, that the deterrent nature of the sentence promotes greater security and is sufficiently preventive. For this reason, it is preferable to provide for more effective monitoring and monitoring of such authors when they return to society. Finally, with regard to the ViCLAS database of the Federal Police "Delictions of Mors" service – abbreviated ZAM (Zeden-Analyse-Mœurs) – and the guidelines in this regard, I can inform you that this bank currently contains 9,000 files, of which 3,320 involve unknown authors. The draft ministerial circular is ready and will be presented to the College of Attorneys General in January. To date, it is not mandatory for police services to contact the ZAM service. In addition, their consultation with ViCLAS during the filing of complaints is limited to experts from the ZAM service who received the appropriate training organized in 2016 by their Canadian counterparts. A systematic consultation of the BNG may be a temporary solution pending the ViCLAS circular.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic765x.u4	Minister, I understand that not all the details can be released while an investigation is under way, but you have been able to clarify a great deal in this individual case. This certainly applies to two important elements. First of all, it's not unimportant that it wasn't an official complaint from the victim. Secondly, you have also clarified that this was not an electronic monitoring case. I am pleased that you have the courage to commit yourself to a date when the Committee on Criminal Law will be able to complete its work and a more stringent legislation on penalties for rapists will be put in place. You will be pinned down at the beginning of 2018 and I hope you will get the date this time. The discussion has been discussed several times. In February 2016, you said there would be a decision soon. Last year in December, when the magistrates and aid workers again begged for a stricter approach to rapists, you indicated that in 2017 there would be another measure of punishment for rape. Early 2018 is not far away; let us hope that this will be done quickly because it is urgent.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic765x.u5	Mr Minister, I thank you for the new information you have provided, particularly with regard to the management of the ViCLAS data bank, because I believe that this is one of the delicate points. The new circular will certainly be presented to us in due course, in early 2018. You are right to stress the need for better follow-up of sex offenders, especially if they are on parole or under the supervision of the sentencing court. There must be assurance of a rapid response from the police as soon as the slightest fact is known, that they can have access to all the data in the file of the person concerned. The flow of information remains essential. This is often the way dramas occur when they could have been avoided, when the exchange of information could not have taken place. I understand that you believe that the trainings still need to be continued for local police officers or decentralized federal police services in order for them to have access to certain databases. I cannot recommend too much to speed up the training processes so that, in all police services, there are officers capable of fully managing these databases.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic765x.u6	Mr Minister, Brussels will soon have an English-speaking jurisdiction. Named the Brussels International Business Court (BIBC), this court will aim to arbitrate conflicts between companies operating internationally. In a city as specific as Brussels, which is home to many international companies, this seems to me a very relevant idea. Will this new jurisdiction be financially taken over by the Justice FPS or will other actors intervene? As far as the place of establishment of this court is concerned, do you already have any tangible leads? What are the concrete needs? Is there a delay in starting this court? Do you have an estimate of the number of cases that will be dealt with by this court annually?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic765x.u7	Mr Flahaux, as I announced on 18 October, a preliminary draft law establishing the Brussels International Business Court was submitted to the Council of Ministers and approved by the Council on 27 October. It is currently subject to the opinion of the Council of State. This preliminary draft gives the King the power to enter into force of these provisions by 1 January 2020 at the latest. I would remind you that the BIBC will be financially self-sufficient. The parties will pay substantial registration fees, which will cover the costs, including the remuneration and compensation of lay judges. These fees will be payable in advance and will be liquidated like all legal fees. By its nature, the BIBC will therefore have its own funding. As for the hosting of the new court, an infrastructure adapted to the needs of an efficient administration of justice should be sought. This research will be carried out in collaboration with other stakeholders, including, in particular, regional authorities. In the preparatory meetings, the Brussels authorities expressed themselves in this direction. Finally, it is difficult to estimate the number of cases that could be referred annually to that court. In the Netherlands, where a more or less similar project is currently being submitted to parliament, it is estimated that about 100 cases per year could be involved, while recognizing that this estimate is uncertain. We believe that this number should be much lower, especially during the start-up period. In any event, the planned system must allow for a flexible response to the inflow of business, as long as there is a list of judges in the BIBC available. If successful, this list should be extended.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic765x.u8	Thank you, Minister, for your answers. It is difficult to be much more precise about what is still at the stage of decisions on principles or projects that are in the process of being implemented. Of course, we will be attentive, like you, to the evolution of things. This is a good way to adapt to the changing profile of our Belgian and European capital city.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic765x.u9	Mr President, Minister, a permit was granted in Ghent to build what is said to be the largest mosque in Flanders. It's a Fatihmoskee. Apparently, Fatih means conqueror. The name refers to a Turkish conqueror and that is what is happening in practice: an old Flemish, Ghent district is gradually being conquered by Turkish immigrants. It is a large project of just over EUR 6 million that would be paid for by private donations. We know that this is a diyanet mosque, in other words a Turkish state mosque, which is also likely to come from the Turkish taxpayer. Diyanet is the unfamiliar organization on which the security of the state recently said that it is an instrument of the Turkish regime in our country. The Security of the State called this organization an extension of the Turkish fundamentalist AK party of Erdogan, which collects information about regime opponents and contributes to the polarization of the Turks in our country. Despite the warnings of State Security, it seems that this network of Diyanet does not stand in the way of enlargement. Hence my questions to you, Minister. Do the security services have any idea how the construction of the largest mosque in Flanders will be financed? Can the security services assure us that it is true that this mosque will not be financed directly or indirectly by the Turkish taxpayer? Secondly, does this government take measures to prevent such large mosques from being built on the basis of foreign funding? Finally, how does the government view the establishment of such new Diyanet Mosques in this country in the light of the State Security Reports concerning this organization? In view of the state's opinion on the Diyanet Mosques, does the government allow unlimited construction by the Erdogan regime?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic765x.u10	Mr President, Mrs Pas, Article 19 of the Belgian Constitution provides for freedom of worship. In order to provide for the free exercise of an honorary service, the construction of a building of worship is therefore ensured by our Constitution. Of course, the construction of these buildings is subject to the relevant regional and municipal provisions in force. The Fatihmoskee of Ghent, whose construction is partly financed by the sale of the previous building of worship, is a place of worship connected with Diyanet Belgium. From the mission to detect foreign interference activities on Belgian territory, the Security of the State pays due attention to Diyanet and Diyanet mosques. As the parliamentary committee of inquiry concluded in connection with the terrorist attacks in our country, foreign subsidies are an obstacle to integration and control and, more generally, to the proper functioning of the system of recognized services, which is intended to promote the creation of Belgian Islam. The Committee also noted that efforts to increase the financial transparency of the mosques of other places of worship and associated associations were more efficient than a short ban. Such transparency will be further enforced through the recognised representative bodies of the various worship services in Belgium and through the applicable non-profit organisations legislation. In order to increase the transparency of funding through non-profit organisations and foundations, a draft amending law of 1921 and related Royal Decrees will be discussed at my initiative this month in an IKW. An obligation will be introduced for these structures to record received and granted donations from a certain amount and, where appropriate, to communicate them to the competent authorities. This scheme was discussed extensively with the non-profit organisations sector and with the Accounting Standards Committee. For recognised local religious communities, their funding and possible problematic nature are also systematically examined through the procedure set out in the letter of 20 July 2017 from the Minister of Justice, the Minister of the Interior, the Minister of Finance, the Minister of Defence and the Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration, in the framework of the opinion on State Security and public order.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic765x.u11	Thank you, Minister, for your answer, which unfortunately is what I expected. The measures that many people expect will not be taken. You agree with the decisions of the parliamentary committee of inquiry, which, instead of abolishing Islamization, want to recognise as many mosques as possible and invest even more funding and resources in Islamization. You know that we did not agree with these decisions at all. I didn't expect this government to act differently either.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic765x.u12	Minister, I hope you will give me the answer I expect, unlike your answer to the previous questioner. In my question I say that at the end of last month a letter was sent, but the question dates from October, so by the end of last month I mean the end of September. At that time, there was indeed a new letter on security aspects in the recognition of local communities of faith. It entered into force at that time. Previously, the Security of the State expressed an opinion, but at Flemish level these opinions were not considered sufficient and were difficult, as we know. That has led to a blockage. Meanwhile, the new letter is there and the advisory power lies with several services: not only the Security of the State, but also the Service of Honor of the FPS Justice, the General Intelligence and Security Service (ADIV), the Coordination Body for Threat Analysis (OCAD), the Federal and Local Police and the Foreign Affairs Office. That is a whole team of services that have an insight into the situation and will be able to give the safety advice perfectly. It is probably not unknown to you that CD&V does indeed endorse the newly submitted decisions of the Committee of Inquiry. We think it is better to have a channeled and controlled recognition of mosques that work well than to have a clandestine experience of Islam. That would not be good, and that would remove a great deal of control that will be there at the time when we channel it and do it controlled by the recognition of the mosques. Not least in Limburg I am concerned and familiar with a number of mosques that work very well and that tackle and combat radicalisation. Mr Minister, when I tabled the question, I heard you explain on the radio that the principle of subsidiarity should be applied as short as possible and that local security actors should be given a certain role. The Local Task Forces (LTF) and the Local Integrated Safety Cells (LIVC) can play a good role in this. What will their role be in the whole story? How should we put the letter into practice? In what period can we come up with new advice that can no longer be questioned at Flemish level, when it comes to whether or not good screening of mosques is involved?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic765x.u13	Mr President, as a prolegomenes, I wanted to make it clear that, if I had introduced two almost identical questions, it was because, when I ask the Minister of Justice, sometimes I am referred – rightly – to the Minister of the Interior, and vice versa. As I asked the two ministers the same question, the Justice Minister was asked to answer me. Minister, in our country, the screening of mosques is carried out by the Regions and the Communities. However, until now, we had to wait for the green light of the State Security – which could take time. Recently, we learned that you intended to change this process. Eight different departments will now be involved: the State Security, the Cults and Secularity Department of the FPS Justice, the SGRS, the OCAM, the Federal Police, the Local Police, the Foreign Office and the CTIF. Minister, while we can only welcome this decision, which will make it possible to give a more in-depth and rapid opinion, we cannot help but question the flow of information between these services. Can you shed some light on this, by giving us a concrete explanation of the procedure that will now be applied?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic765x.u14	Mijnheer Terwingen, Mr Flahaux, the Regions and the German-speaking Community are competent for the recognition of local religious communities. Following the cooperation agreement of 3 July 2008, the federal government is required to give an opinion in this regard on State security and public order. Through the Minister of Justice, the Joint Circular of 20 July – which I drafted in collaboration with my colleagues in the Security and Interior, Finance, Defence, Asylum and Migration – sets out a new procedure for making this notice enforceable. As a result of the new circular, more services are associated with the opinion, namely, the Service of Worship, Justice, State Security, the General Intelligence and Security Service, Defence, the Threat Analysis Coordinating Body, federal and local police, the Office of Foreigners and the Financial Information Processing Unit. Each department has a specific task, in which attention is drawn to terrorism, extremism, radicalism, interference, espionage and organised crime and related facts. In addition, the flow of information between the various services will be improved, including at the local level the Regions and the German-speaking Community. A procedure is introduced to deliver an opinion on a new application for recognition and to amend an existing opinion. All new and pending referrals will be dealt with in accordance with the new procedure. If a relevant service in an already recognised local community identifies new pertinent and substantial information which could justify an amendment to the existing opinion, a procedure for a new opinion may be initiated if necessary. It was an explicit choice to use the existing cooperation mechanisms when drawing up the opinion. The local task force is therefore structurally involved in the drafting of the opinion. The security of the State will set up such an advisory request on the LTF. As a result, all relevant local and federal police forces and the prosecution are immediately informed. After all, they are always present at the local task force. The chief of police of the local police can therefore inform his mayor. The local and federal police forces present on the LTF are responsible for communicating the police information and advice to the State Security. This will enable the local task force to immediately decide who will ensure the follow-up, exchange information, or propose an entry into the common databases in order to initiate a common follow-up if a security problem of terrorism, extremism or radicalism is identified when the opinion is drawn up. The link to the local integrated security cell is formed by the information officer of the local police, who is present on both the LTF and the LIVC. In this way, a possible problem of radicalisation can be detected proactively and prematurely and through the LTF can be transferred to the LIVC, which is responsible for the preventive follow-up by the socio-preventive sector.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic765x.u15	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. It is important that this new letter can be quickly translated into practice, so that there can be a quick return of opinions which, as far as I am concerned, can no longer, unilaterally, be ignored by one Minister of the Flemish Government. Then we can move forward with the well-functioning mosques that deserve recognition, to map and tackle radicalisation.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic765x.u16	Mr President, Minister, first of all, I would like to thank you for your answer. I can only congratulate you on your willingness to share information. Since the Dutroux case, the negative consequences of the lack of exchange of information are known. Of course, just like you, I will come back to the subject in a while to take stock of the implementation of your project.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic765x.u17	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Lambrecht's 21470, 21471, 21472 and 21474 are postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic765x.u18	Minister, at the end of September we were allowed to receive the first annual report from the committee to objectify maintenance contributions. We had to be patient, but it was finally sent to us in September. This reveals a number of needs that are largely already known to us. For example, the Committee proposes that, before determining the maintenance contributions, the following be clearly defined or defined. Firstly, the different situations in which children grow up. Secondly, the extraordinary costs. Thirdly, cross-stay costs. Fourthly, the shared costs. Fifth, how costs are effectively borne in kind or through maintenance contributions. All this seems to require additional research. The committee has set out a number of objectives, including the identification of existing methods of calculation at home and abroad, and the existing difficulties of practitioners, but also and perhaps the most important ones of parents. I have the following questions. What is the deadline for concluding these matters and achieving concrete results? Are there any recommendations that are considered useful for transposition into legislation? Will the Cabinet of Secretary of State for Combating Poverty, Mrs Demir, be involved in this objectification? If so, in what way and who has what task? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic765x.u19	Ms Uyttersprot, the Maintenance Contributions Committee was established by Law of 19 March 2010, and a Royal Decree of 7 February 2014 established its composition and functioning. In a royal decree of 10 August 2015, the members of the committee were appointed, after which the committee started its work in January 2016. The first annual report of the committee now gives us the opportunity to evaluate the functioning of the committee and, where necessary, to improve its operation. It is my intention, after all, to ensure the proper functioning of the committee and to give it the necessary support. The recommendations contained in the annual report are proof of the good work done by the committee. I will shortly submit a draft law to the Council of Ministers which will translate these recommendations. In addition, my services have already consulted the chairman of the committee in order to find possible solutions to the practical problems that arise. In particular, it concerns the improvement of the functioning of the Secretariat and the facilitation of electronic communications, taking into account the specificity of the ICT environment of the FPS Justice and the necessary security requirements. In addition, I asked the Minister for Social Affairs whether the resources of the State-General of the Family programme could be made available to the Committee on Maintenance Contributions. In anticipation of a reply, the necessary means of operation for that committee will therefore continue to be borne by the budget of the FPS Justice and this will be done by internal compensation. Mrs Uyttersprot, as you point out, the Committee on Maintenance Contributions has set itself a number of goals with a view to improving the objectification of maintenance contributions. The committee's task is important and extensive and requires thorough investigation. The committee will continue this work in 2017. In reply to your question about the deadline, it seems logical to me to wait for the next annual report from the committee. In the meantime, as I mentioned earlier, the recommendations from the first report will be implemented. The Cabinet of the Secretary of State for Combating Poverty will now also be involved in the work of the Committee. A representative of the Secretary of State's Cabinet will be invited to the next meeting of the Maintenance Contributions Committee on 15 December 2017.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic765x.u20	Mr Minister, despite the limited resources available, a good report was indeed produced. Hopefully we will soon be able to see these recommendations transposed into legislation. I note that at a subsequent meeting of the committee, the cabinet of Secretary of State Demir will also be invited. A possible delegation from the cabinet is indeed interesting with a view to greater involvement and in this way both sides are quickly aware of what is going on in the committee. We can only continue to drive fast work and, at last, clarity. You know, since you gave me those figures yourself, that seven complaints a day are being filed for non-payment of maintenance money. Insolvency is a possible cause, but I think that in many cases the maintenance contribution or its budget does not meet the expectations of the creditor or the creditor. The sooner we can achieve an objectification, the better for each of us.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic765x.u21	Today, Minister, driving bans can only be imposed in traffic matters. However, it might be useful for a driving ban to be imposed in other cases as well. Correct judges could then, for example, rule out driving in criminal cases such as drug offences. If I recall correctly, this was one of the slopes you announced in April 2016 regarding the major reform of criminal law. Has this slope been maintained in the discussions held in the expert groups preparing a new penal code and a new penal code? Are you in favour of extending the possibility of banning driving?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic765x.u22	Ms Lahaye-Battheu, in a diversified and adequate criminal response, the draft of book 1 of the criminal book adds a number of additional penalties. The experts of the Committee on Criminal Law Reform honour the principle of mirror punishment. That means that the punishment must be a reflection of the crime. A general decline in the right to drive is proposed, in particular where the motor vehicle has served or was intended to commit the crime or to ensure the flight after the crime has been committed, including for offences other than road offences. In this way, the decline of the right to send becomes a new accurate additional penalty.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic765x.u23	Thank you, Minister, for the answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic765x.u24	Minister, on 19 September there were 1 583 persons under electronic supervision in connection with the execution of the sentence, i.e. with an anklet. Since the sixth state reform, both the federal government and the regional government have been responsible for the succession of single-banded persons. That control is not always perfect, I want to prove with an example from the field. After a long time, a weakly gifted minor has re-contact with a parent. The parent in question wears, after previous facts, an anklet and is therefore accompanied by a judicial assistant. When it is found that the parent in question has the minor child trafficking soft drugs for him, contact the judicial assistant. Before the question is asked whether the information that will be provided will be shared with the client and if not, the judicial assistant may not or can not listen, making only an official complaint to the police a way out. There are no doubt other examples. In my view, it is certainly a striking example of the problem of information in the courts and in the courts. Information about offences committed by a convicted person or a person under supervision is de facto ignored here. Another example is one in which the person responsible for family guidance and also an employee of the CLB knows about sexual abuse in a family, but does not suggest that he should report this to the Justice Department. However, Article 29 of the Code of Criminal Procedure states that any government and any public officer or official who becomes aware of a crime or of a malpractice in the performance of his duties shall be obliged to immediately notify the prosecutor to the court within whose jurisdiction that crime or malpractice has been committed. In practice, however, it often turns out to be different and the mentality is unfortunately sometimes one of ears closed and ignoring information. Efforts have recently been made at federal level to counter such shocking situations. For example, Article 458b was inserted into the Criminal Code to provide for a possibility of so-called case consultation. Minister, what do you think of the way the judicial assistant works in my example? Are we following the correct way of doing things here or not? Why is that, or why not? Will you raise the issue at the Justice Houses Inter-Ministerial Conference, where you can consult with the Communities on problems arising in the performance of contracts? Should the judicial assistant, the supervisor and the employee of the CLB not, in my example, have applied Article 29 of the Code of Criminal Procedure? Do you see here an opportunity to apply Article 458 of the Criminal Code? Why is that, or why not?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic765x.u25	Mrs Lahaye-Battheu, I cannot, of course, comment on the specific cases. The examples to which you refer show that the professional secrecy of the judicial assistant is at odds with the reporting obligations of officials of the offences they establish in the context of their duties. Both obligations are important, on the one hand, because the court could detect and prosecute the crimes in good time, on the other, because discretion and trust remain fundamental for some professions. However, there is a fixed judgment in cassation which states that the general reporting obligation of officials is subordinate to the obligation of professional secrecy for certain professions the infringement of which is punishable in accordance with Article 458 of the Criminal Code. With regard to child abuse and other violent crimes against vulnerable persons, the exception of Article 458a of the Criminal Code has long been in place, but this requires that there is a risk of new facts and that they cannot be prevented in any other way or that the victims cannot protect themselves. The problem to which you refer was therefore one of the reasons why I had in my fifth potpourriwet adopted a new Article 458ter of the Criminal Code, which constitutes a framework law for the case-consultation and the chain approach to certain crimes. Since its entry into force, it is now possible to organise a case-by-case consultation in the cases laid down by law, decree or decree, or subject to the reasoned consent of the King's Attorney General, in which secrets can be shared. I would like to point out that the article also applies ad hocly, in other words: the King's Attorney may authorize and organise such consultations for a specific dossier, provided that the legal conditions in terms of finality and modalities are fulfilled. The judicial assistant could therefore also request such authorisation from the King's Attorney. As this is a very recent legislative amendment, the College of Attorneys General is still working on specific guidelines. The latest developments were recently discussed at a meeting of the College of Attorneys General and they will be able to be discussed at the IMC Justice Houses. On the Flemish side, protocols are being developed to shape the chain approach in the family justice centers, and on the Walloon side, decrees are already being prepared to embed the professional secrecy-case consultation. I am therefore hopeful that the new legislation will lead to an improved sharing of the necessary information in the field between the police, the judiciary and the holders of professional secrecy.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic765x.u26	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. I thought it was important to bring the subject to your attention. There are many services and civil servants who work well, but unfortunately work side by side, resulting in impunity and increased insecurity. However, your answer is encouraging given the recently existing possibility of case-consultation. I therefore hope that this can be a solution, so that the professional efforts of so many people in our society will lead to a better result, because that is what we are all going to do.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic765x.u27	Mr President, Minister, a year and a half ago it was confirmed that Ypres' prison will have 56 extra seats. The construction plans include two new floors on top of an existing section as well as the renovation of this section. The timing and method of financing had yet to be determined. Enlargement will make it possible to manage prison more efficiently. In addition, there is another request to renovate the oldest cell section of the prison. It would include the renewal of windows, plumbing and lighting. The connection must also be made with the new construction. I have a number of questions about this dossier. In the press we could read that the works would start in June 2018. Can you confirm this timing? What is the execution time for the works? What will be the way of financing? Will the prison be completely or partially closed during the renovations? If there were to be a complete closure, do we already know where the prisoners will be accommodated and what this means for the ninety-headed staff? Will they then be temporarily seconded? What is the status of the request to renovate the oldest cell area? In the meantime, is there a green light? Quid with the Ypres prison workshop? Are there any possibilities for enlargement?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic765x.u28	Mr President, Mrs Lahaye-Battheu, in terms of timing, the work will not start in June 2018 as reported in the press. The budget is only foreseen for 2019 and 2020. The works will have to be carried out within the time limits specified by the Buildings Management. Enlargement will take place under the direct management of the Buildings Regié and will therefore be financed in the traditional way, with additional funds allocated to their investment programme. The expansion of Ypres is merely an extension of the capacity of detainees. There are no other works attached to it, not even about workshops. The debate on whether or not to close the prison completely during work is premature at the moment. No decision has yet been taken on this matter. Planning the start of the works will give us time to prepare the right scenario. For this purpose, all useful elements are currently collected by the administration. Then it will be decided whether it is necessary to temporarily evacuate the prison. This will depend on the expected nuisance for the prisoners and the staff. Once the necessary decisions have been taken, we will communicate on this, especially with the staff, and plan the necessary consultations. Of course, I am also in favour and asking for the oldest cell blocks to be renovated as well. The application was transferred to the Executive Board of the Buildings.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic765x.u29	Thank you, Minister, for this state of affairs.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic765x.u30	Mr President, Minister, we have discussed this issue on a number of occasions. In the meantime, it's been a while. I would like to refer briefly to last year's question concerning the central reporting points for drug addicts. Last year these reporting points were forced to stop and drug-addicted prisoners had to seek help themselves outside the prison walls. A conflict of powers was the basis for this. In your answer of October 2016, you referred to the commitment that Flanders had made to further finance the operation from this year on. At that time no commitment had been made on the part of Brussels and French. During that period, the Directorate-General for EPI also prepared new dossiers on a temporary extension of the CAPs. A scientific study on the functioning of CAPs was also completed at the end of last year. The recommendations would be discussed with the Communities. As regards Justice, it was necessary to determine the facilitating role to be played by psychosocial services in prisons and prison management in the practical organisation of these admission points. The intention was to reach a protocol agreement in the first half of 2017 on the concrete commitments to be made by all relevant actors within their respective competences and in relation to each other. Mr Minister, I have the following questions. First of all, what is the state of play today? Since when has the operation of CAPs been restarted in the Flemish prisons, funded by the Flemish Community? Are we still talking about central notification points or has this been given a different name in the meantime? Doesn't the federal government play any part in this anymore? What is the current working method on the part of Brussels and French? Secondly, can you indicate for each of the regions how many full-time equivalents were working at the time of the cessation and how many applications have they dealt with since their entry into force? How many have been working on the respective levels since when? Thirdly, could you briefly explain the study's recommendations? Fourthly, what is your general view on the pervert structures, such as CAPs? Can their role not be taken over everywhere by psychosocial services that ultimately provide guidance in prisons? Finally, are there any problems with professional secrecy in relation to the staff of the CAPs, for example, in the sense that justice does not know what has been proposed and that this causes communication problems when a detainee comes before the criminal court?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic765x.u31	Mr Minister, it is clear that CAPs were useful as a reference point for drug addicts in prisons. It is therefore very unfortunate that in February 2016, when the contract with the FPS Justice Department was concluded, there was no immediate replacement and so there was nothing left for the prisoners and they had to go out again for help. Yet there were thousands of applications over the years. After all, many inmates are suffering from an addiction. In response to my previous questions, you said that there were discussions with Flanders about a concrete takeover in Flanders. There was a phased restart of the CAP operation in March and a protocol agreement in spring 2017. Discussions also took place with Brussels and Wallonia, but there were no concrete commitments yet. What is the current supply of drug aid in the Flemish prisons? Has CAP operation been fully restarted? What differences are there in relation to the earlier operation? In the meantime, is the protocol agreement a fact? If so, what are the main lines of action? If not, what is the reason for the delay and when can the protocol agreement be expected? What is the status of drug aid to detainees in Brussels and Wallonia? Was a follow-up of the CAP operation rolled out there too? Is there a protocol agreement there too? Is this the same regulation or is it different from the previous regime and the current Flemish system?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic765x.u32	In all Flemish prisons, since 1 October 2017, TANDEM, leadership and incentive after detention and more, is fully operational to provide guidance. TANDEM is the successor to the former CAP but works wider. It concerns the access of all prisoners with mental health problems to guidance and follow-up services. Flemish Minister of Welfare Jo Vandeurzen has assumed the costs for the operation. The focus of TANDEM is also wider than just the drug problem, which is estimated at 80% of the caseload. The treatment of drug addiction in prisons is turned into a broader context of mental health care. It is also subsidiary to the other access channels in the prisons of psychosocial services, medical services and path counsellors in the judicial welfare work. The cooperation between all services concerned was included in a template describing the module "Listing and leading prisoners with mental health problems to appropriate care and post-detention assistance." An additional protocol agreement will not be considered until after the implementation of the functioning of TANDEM, in order to assess the need for additional working arrangements. Currently, TANDEM uses 3.5 full-time equivalents. That's as much as the Flemish CAP used to be. As far as Brussels is concerned, there is active consultation with the competent services to introduce a similar model in the Brussels prisons. The aim is to concreteise this in 2018. As far as Walloon prisons are concerned, the French Community has not yet taken a concrete initiative, but here too we remain on speaking terms. The operation and effects of the central registration point were previously the subject of a scientific study, PROSPR or process and outcome study of based registration points, which advocated further professionalisation and development of the referral policy. This study should now also be read together with the study of the Federal Health Knowledge Centre, the so-called KCE study, which had a broader framework for the organisation of health care for prisoners. The pilot projects that will start in collaboration with the FPS Public Health from December 2018 can be considered as precursors of the transfer of health care in the prisons of the FPS Justice to the FPS Public Health and anticipate a more qualitative health care. In the context of the instruction, the role of the penitentiary administration is threefold. Firstly, the medical service and, to some extent, the PSD are responsible for the screening and detection of mental health problems. They refer the prisoner to the specialised services of the Communities for psychosocial counselling, particularly in the light of the post-penitentiary phase. Secondly, the prison's medical service is responsible for the medical supervision of the prisoner. Thirdly, the prison as an institution facilitates the operation of the services of the Communities, as is the task of the other pillars of aid and services. The issue of professional secrecy should not be a problem if the detention of prisoners with mental health problems from prison takes place through the prison medical service. This, too, is an objective of the pilot projects mentioned earlier.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic765x.u33	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic765x.u34	Thank you, Minister. You surprise me again and again with your quick reading. Allow me to take a quiet look at your answer. I think I've heard and understood most of it. I have noted mainly that there is indeed a start under a wider project. I'll take a quiet look at that and possibly I'll formulate a new question. I'll try to put it a little slower than your answer right now.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic765x.u35	Mr President, Minister, the master plan for a prison infrastructure in human conditions, approved at the end of last year, provides for a hundred places within transition homes. These places are intended for persons at the end of their sentence, to facilitate the transition to the functioning of our society. A first step in the realisation of this project is the creation of a legal framework that should allow such transition homes, after which an implementing decision must follow. The intention would be to start the first pilot projects during this legislature. First of all, what is the state of play in the creation of the legal framework? Secondly, what standards will a transition house have to meet? Thirdly, is it still the case that the first pilot projects will be launched in the course of this legislature? If so, how many and where? Fourthly, what budget is allocated per pilot project? Fifth, will the daily price for an inmate in a transition house be higher or lower than in a prison?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic765x.u36	Mr President, Minister, a long time ago, perhaps during the previous legislature, we drew up a resolution on detention homes. There was the project De Huizen of the prison director of Oudenaarde. We even went there once to talk to him about it. He's been calling me a lot about this ever since. I like the idea, but I also understand that this is not an obvious idea. We're working on it. This project has also gradually found its way into general thinking. The master plan III provides space for this type of transition homes. Mr Lahaye-Battheu pointed out that there should be a hundred places in a project that this government wants to launch. I find this particularly interesting. In the English system one works with categories so that one can move from prison to prison, so step by step. This is part of the whole chain. The recommendations of the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry into the attacks of 22 March 2016 state that the idea of disengagement-oriented transition houses should be examined. They could then act as an intermediate step in the reintegration process of detainees who have been radicalised or who are in any case highly susceptible to it. You know as well as I do that deradicalisation, especially in prison, is not obvious. In the end, a transition house could play a role in this. That's why the piste only gets more interesting. Minister, what is the state of play regarding the development of the transition houses as described in the Ill Master Plan? Is the concept similar to the proposed project De Huizen? That was suggested at the time by the prison director of Oudenaarde. What are the possible differences? What budget is foreseen for this? Have there already been locations where the first transition houses will appear? Has it been decided which type of prisoner will be eligible for these transition houses? Finally, what is your position on the recommendation of the parliamentary committee of inquiry to set up disengagement-oriented transition houses?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic765x.u37	Mr President, Mrs Lahaye-Battheu, Mrs De Wit, the legal basis that will allow the creation of transition homes has been completed and will shortly be presented to Parliament in a law laying down various provisions on criminal law and criminal execution. A draft implementing act laying down the standards on infrastructure, staff and functional and organisational matters is being prepared in parallel. Organisations wishing to benefit from a transition home will have to submit a dossier with a view to obtaining recognition. The tender procedure has not yet been decided, several variants are being studied. It is indeed the intention to start two pilot projects during this legislature, one in Flanders and one in Wallonia, as stipulated in the master plan III confirmed by the government on 18 November 2016. The budgetary impact of these projects is also well under study. Because this is a project without previous experience in our country, it is not a simple exercise. However, it may be argued that the cost of a daily inmate, charged to the FPS Justice, is at least a lacunause basis for comparison, as it does not take into account the cost of the infrastructure, which is largely borne, with the exception of a number of maintenance activities, by the Government of the Buildings. Moreover, ideally, social added value should also be taken into account in calculating its cost, even if the expected effect, in particular a reduction in recurrent rates, will only become apparent over time. The concept of transition homes is closely linked to the concept of detention homes. Both concepts share the principles of small scale and proximity. The concept of detention homes adds the concept of differentiation, which implies that detention homes may differ in terms of level of security, detention-filling and anticipated guidance. Transition houses tend to focus on convicted people who are closer to a possible early release or another mode of execution, such as electronic. This is more like the principle of progressiveness. In itself, a priori, no profiles of prisoners are excluded from that concept, since the common denominator is the susceptibility to social reintegration. It is therefore not useful at this stage to define exclusives or to lay down exclusion criteria. A priori, a convicted person residing in a transition home could register in a disengagement project through the system of the special individualized conditions. However, as indicated above, the intention at the outset is not to limit a transition house to a specific profile of inmates. It is also important in this context to point out that such a project can only succeed if sufficient social support can be created. As far as localization is concerned, there are of course no sites yet known, although signals are given from various circles, to be asking parties. As already indicated, one project per region will be foreseen at the start. Since the intention is to lock up convicts who will reintegrate in the region in question as a manifestation of the principle of proximity in a transition house, center cities seem to be a logical choice. However, this will depend on the dossiers that will be submitted with their pros and contras.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic765x.u38	Thank you, Minister, for your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic765x.u39	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. You have touched something very important, especially the public support. The communication about the project and the explanation for people in whose neighborhood such a transition house could come will be particularly important. You mentioned something important on that point. I would very much like to follow up on the dossier and see how things can evolve further.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic765x.u40	Questions Nos 21443 by Mr Dallemagne and 21461 by Mrs Van Hoof are transformed into written questions. Question No 21478 by Mrs Özen is postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic765x.u41	Mrs Lambrecht is not here to ask her question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic765x.u42	Minister, Belgium has a number of life-long convicts who have been imprisoned in a Belgian prison for more than 30 years and may not be released. Recently, the proposal was launched to grant this type of inmates penitentiary leave as well. You said you didn't refuse to do that. At the moment, prisoners with a life sentence may already receive penitentiary leave in the year preceding the date of their eligibility for conditional release, according to Article 7 of the External Law Act. I would like to put the following questions to you. Do you wish to depart from the existing legal system with your reaction in the media or is this part of the forthcoming reform of the Criminal Enforcement Code? Under what conditions and restrictions do you intend to grant penitentiary leave? Finally, I have a not insignificant question with regard to the practical effects. Who will decide on the granting of this penitentiary leave? Will that be the criminal execution court, or will it be the minister on the recommendation of the prison director?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic765x.u43	Mrs De Wit, you are talking about penitentiary leave, but the topic is rather the issue of the permit to go out, namely a day off. According to Article 4 of the External Law Act, the exit permit is a mode of execution that allows the sentenced person to leave prison during the day. That should not take longer than 16 hours. In practice, it means that a detainee leaves the facility in the morning and returns in the evening. For a penitentiary leave on the other hand, at least one night extra muros is included. It is a decision of the Minister of Justice which is delegated to the penitentiary administration. Exceptionally, the criminal enforcement court may also grant that authorisation if it has to decide on other modalities such as electronic surveillance or early release. There are two types of nightlife permits. The first is intended to prepare for social reintegration, i.e. departures designed to prepare the later modalities such as electronic surveillance or conditional release. A second species is the occasional outing permit to represent social, moral, legal, therapeutic, family, training or professionally justified interests that require the presence of the inmate outside the prison. Here it is rather a special situation or a problem that arises, such as attending a funeral, the birth of a child, visiting a notary and so on. The exit permit shall be subject to conditions related to the purpose, object, duration or prohibition, such as drinking, location or the like. One of the special conditions may be that the exit permit is accompanied by one or more confidential persons. It is, of course, necessary to examine in advance whether there are no contraindications, such as the risk of escape, new facts or the anxiety of victims. The granting of an occasional exit permit to life-long convicted prisoners can already be based on the law. The purpose of the exit permit, as explained above, is, inter alia, to promote a social, moral and/or family interest. Granting regular exits to a person who is in prison for life or who is in detention for a long time may have the purpose of making the detention more bearable, a rest period or cesorship to be out of prison once. The prison is a total institute, where everything for the inmate is arranged to stand up, wash, eat, walk, all kinds of regime rules. In short, to feel free. It may also aim to make the prisoner have some connection with the outside world, both physically and psychologically, and to make the changes in society feel like visiting family members, friends or confidants in a more human location than the prison room and without the strict time limit of the visitation. That can be done at specific moments in life, such as a birth, a funeral, a party and so on. It may also aim to give the prisoner some perspective by making him feel really free from time to time. This also has a positive psychosomatic, therapeutic effect. I would like to point out that the law on the internal legal status of detainees of 11 January 2005 provides in Article 6 (2) that: "In the execution of the custodial sentence, avoidable detention damage should be avoided. Occasionally giving a life sentence can help the person survive in detention, but, again, there should be no counterindications.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic765x.u44	Mr. Secretary, I'm just trying to put your answer on the table. I understand that for a funeral, an appointment with a notary, the birth of a child... no matter what happens, we have to make sure that we put people in prison in a decent way and fill in detention in the same way. However, I find it difficult for you to say that they must feel free. I can still understand it if it's under supervision, but if it isn't, I find it very difficult. One has to be forgiving, but often one does not just get life for life and there is a victim who will never feel free again. I find that very difficult. I understand it on the one hand, but on the other hand, I do not think it is clear on the human side, particularly if it were to be without guidance. It's a difficult theme, so I wouldn't like to be in the shoes of the person who has to make the decision. I don't think it's that obvious. Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic765x.u45	Mr President, may I add something? It's obvious it's under supervision. If you had any doubts about that, I would strongly contradict that.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic765x.u46	Mr Minister, the Family Courts Working Group is looking at the issue of parental suspension, among other things. I have sent you a graph showing the exponential increase in the identification of this problem. The Working Group will now seek a concrete approach with necessary measures, both civil and protectional and criminal. In the context of the organisation of the transitional arrangements and the improvement of communication between both parents, the idea was already put forward to include a checklist, a sort of checklist in the law. By providing a minimum of criteria, we could help family judges assess the interests of children and their parents in the communication between parents. The working group also agreed on the need for proper training of magistrates and lawyers. This is also evident from a study by the University of Leuven in which 10 family and youth judges from all over the country were questioned to get a picture of parental deprivation in the judicial world. In this light, a pilot project in Dinant and Liège was rolled out according to the Cochem method, named after a German town, praised for its beneficial effects and results. It is known that ex-partners often come to an agreement when, among other things, judges, lawyers, social services and mediators work together to speed up their approach to divorce. According to that method, a simplified application with a kind of cross-checking list should also be made, leaving little or no room for interpretation and allowing the court to rule objectively without influence on a summary basis. Moreover, the study notes that preventive action is very important, although in certain situations it is sometimes necessary to take punitive and radical action. The failure to comply with the agreed or imposed residence regime means the failure to comply with a judicial decision. In the meantime, Minister, has a decision been taken on the inclusion of such a checklist or checklist in the law? If so, do you have a view on its introduction? Will this list also be used in the case of the suspicion of parental withdrawal, with a view to early identification? Have any other concrete recommendations been made to address parental deprivation? If so, what recommendations are they? Will they also be transposed into legislation? Are you aware of the pilot project in Dinant and Liège, where Cochem's method is used? What are the initial findings? What are the possibilities for enlargement? If correct judgments are not complied with, there will be clear consequences. However, the enforceability of civil judgments remains a pain. In practice, we see that alternative penalties for non-execution, such as the withdrawal of a driving licence, are hardly used or do not offer any relief. Do you foresee new measures for non-implementation? Have steps been taken to improve the specific training of judges and lawyers in their approach to parental abolition? If so, which one? When are these training parts going to start?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic765x.u47	Mrs Uyttersprot, as I mentioned earlier in the reply to a previous oral question, I believe that the fight against parental deprivation requires different types of measures, both civil, protectional and criminal. The emphasis should be placed on dialogue and communication between parents. The Civil Code and the Civil Code contain a number of provisions designed to prevent such harmful behaviour on behalf of the child, but these provisions only apply after the relationship between parents has deteriorated. No decisions have yet been taken in the Family Court Working Group. A number of measures are currently being examined, such as the definition of a number of criteria which should allow the courts to determine whether or not there is parental deprivation or the possibility of optional formation of magistrates to make them aware of this problem. I will also present the concerns and suggestions you have raised to the working group. The next meeting of the Family Court Working Group will take place on 21 November in the presence of some experts. The Communities are also closely involved in work to improve cooperation between Justice and Welfare. My intention is to organise a public debate on the findings of the working group in the form of a colloquium in the course of 2018. The pilot project in Dinant, where the so-called Cochem method is applied, starts from the assumption that under the Children's Rights Convention a child has the right to know both his parents and to see them regularly. In this respect, parents should take responsibility and work together to develop solutions in the best interests of the child. To this end, the model gives priority to the use of mediation or a form of counseling by lawyers, who encourage their clients to agree on solutions to which all parties gain. If there is already a break in the relationship between parents, this method can be accompanied by guidance, encouraging parents to reach an agreement themselves within an interdisciplinary approach and with the necessary compulsion, guidance and control. It is only by way of exception that the court will have to settle a dispute, namely when mediation or guidance fails. The model extends beyond the district of Dinant, but can only succeed if the parties wish to cooperate and if they are well informed about the method used, which is not always the case. Some consider that the method is inappropriate when the conflict between parents is too advanced. Another criticism is that there is no service that would support parents in this non-conflict approach, even though initiatives are already being discussed here and there at Justice Houses and Family Planning Centres. The model will be further discussed at the next meeting of the working group.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic765x.u48	Thank you, Minister, for taking the suggestions and concerns to the meeting of 21 November 2017. The importance of the child is, of course, a priority. You yourself cited the European and international rights of the child. The sooner one can intervene at a stage of parental abandonment or alienation, the less harm the child suffers, because apparently there is a serious mental impact, even in the parents. One can break up and the other parent becomes an ex-partner, but one is never ex-parent. Older people stay for life. I believe that the draft law on conciliation, which we look forward to with interest and which we expect this autumn or the beginning of next year, is a task. Thank you very much for taking my concern with you to the next meeting of the Family Court Working Party.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic765x.u49	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Cheron's 21669 was converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic765x.u50	Mr Minister, on 1 December 2015, the new letter COL 4/2006 came into force. This includes some special cases, including family abandonment as a result of non-payment of maintenance contributions and non-payment of children. Chapter X of the renewed circular provides for an annual evaluation by the Crime against Persons Expert Network, with the support of the Criminal Policy Office. The aim is to submit useful proposals to the Minister of Justice and to the College of Attorneys General to amend or supplement the letter. Among other things, it examines whether the funds made available to public prosecutors, police forces and justice houses are adequate for the purposes for which they are intended. In addition, a checklist of Intra-Family violence has been added, all elements of which need to be examined and added to the minutes in order to make this more relevant and complete. As you said in an earlier reply to a question of April 2016, this renewed letter will also have an impact on criminal law in relation to partner violence and parental deprivation. Mr Minister, has an evaluation been carried out after one year of operation, according to the re-transmit letter? Have any additional measures been proposed? If so, which one? What were the results? What are the reactions from the practice to COL? How is the use of the checklist experienced by police and magistrates? Is there an impact on criminal law? Can you already determine whether the figures of complaints, prosecutions, are being better kept up to date? In the meantime, is there going to be more mediation? The figures I received last year showed that in the last five years only a few cases have led to a friendly settlement at parquet level. Is there an increase now that this is being promoted more? What is your general decision on this? Can a positive evaluation be carried out on the occasion of the re-transmit letter?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic765x.u51	Ms Uyttersprot, the COL 4/2006 received a thorough update at the end of 2015. In this way, important emphasis was placed on a more firm and priority approach to intra-family violence whose harmful effects cannot be denied. For example, within the various arrondissements reference magistrates are appointed by the King's Attorney and action plans on partner violence are provided for. It is rightly one of the key points that can be addressed in the vertical policy themes of the Integrated Security Paper and the National Security Plan. I would also like to point out in this context that one of the instruments for effectively combating this problem has been thoroughly evaluated in relation to my question over the past year, in particular the imposition of a house ban. The results of this evaluation will now be discussed further at the various levels, including within the IMC Justice Houses and at the College of Attorneys General with the Länder. This is necessary given the importance of both offender- and victim-oriented measures and the embedding in the operation of the family justice centres that are gradually being established everywhere and which allows the necessary follow-up by the judicial assistants. Cooperation with police forces and the use of instruments such as the checklist are also further monitored and discussed. It is true that the COL 4/2006 provides for an annual evaluation but this will now be done through an annual discussion in the expertise network of crimes against persons and not through a formal evaluation study. The civil law expertise network will participate in this annual discussion from its own expertise, in the light of, among other things, the fight against parental deprivation. The emphasis over the past year has been placed on the aforementioned evaluation of the ban on housing. The other issues will undoubtedly be discussed in the coming years. Finally, I should like to inform you that I cannot provide you with any new statistical data in the context of this oral question, given the short period of time.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic765x.u52	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. I am particularly looking forward to the evaluation of parental deprivation in criminal prosecution and possibly also conviction in that area. I will be happy to forward your answer on the ban to my colleague, Mr Van Vaerenbergh, who is following this issue for us.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic765x.u53	Debates of the European Parliament 21767 by Mrs Özen and put to the vote No 21776 by Mrs Van Cauter and No 21776 by Mrs Van Cauter and others, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, and on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 21807 by Mrs Smeyers
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic765x.u54	Mr President, Minister, on 18 December in Brussels, the process whereby Abdeslam must be prevented for violence against agents starts. That's actually very well described. He currently resides in a prison in Paris. In order to attend his trial, he would be flown every day by helicopter. The process would, in principle, last four days. According to the media, these helicopter flights are intended to prevent Abdeslam from nesting in a Belgian cell and to refuse to go back to France. In addition, the authorities would like to avoid putting him back in Bruges' high-security prison, because he used to be there and because there were problems there. Has it already been decided, Minister, how he will attend his trial? If so, will this be effective by helicopter? Has an agreement been reached with France on this? What's the cost of this? Will these costs be borne by Belgium or France? Are there any alternatives? With regard to these problems in Bruges, I don't know if you can say anything about them, but if you can give me a tip of the veil on the precise problems, I'd be happy to hear that.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic765x.u55	Mr President, Mrs De Wit, of course there is no agreement yet on the practical arrangements for the transport of Salah Abdeslam as there is no agreement yet on the principle of its transfer. The court issued a European arrest warrant which was transferred to the French judicial authorities. These are currently analysing the arrest warrant. Given the current situation, I think it has been sufficiently reminded in recent days that the decision on the enforcement of a European arrest warrant is a strictly judicial decision. Contacts have already taken place between the competent French and Belgian services and authorities in the event that the European Arrest Warrant would be executed, with a view to anticipating some practical aspects, without wishing to pre-empt the judicial decision. These are merely exploratory contacts. Concerning the previous detention of Salah Abdeslam in Bruges prison, the Directorate-General for Penitentiary Institutions reports that there have been no special or specific problems with that prisoner.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic765x.u56	Thank you, Minister, for your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic765x.u57	Mr President, Minister, The Washington Post recently revealed that US President Donald Trump shared confidential intelligence with Russian Minister Lavrov. The revelation led to a great panic in the White House. Trump confirmed his statement and stated that he absolutely had the right to do so. Trump leaked that the U.S. intelligence services were on the trail of an IS conspiracy, using laptops on airplanes. Trump also mentioned the Syrian city where the plot would be prepared. That information falls into the highest category of confidentiality by the intelligence services. Any government employee who shares secret information with a foreign power, certainly one with which the US is at odds, is punishable. According to lawyers, Trump's action wasn't, because the president ultimately decides what is or isn't secret. Nevertheless, this does not affect the damage that Trump has done to his intelligence services. The statements of the US President are detrimental to the CIA and NSA's links with the allies in Syria who had provided and shared the information. A week later, British and European intelligence services also stated that they were concerned that a lot of information about the Manchester attack was made public via American sources. I quote a Belgian source: "It sometimes happens that when a larger partner such as the United States is involved in an investigation such as this, information is leaked. You involve them because of the extra resources, but you have to realize that the risk of leaks is also increasing. In this case, the British do have a suspicion of where the leak came from. The recent implementation of the Trump administration in the case of leaking sensitive information is certainly in mind when examining this situation." Minister, I would like an answer to the following questions. To what extent can we still trust the President of the United States, Donald Trump, and his services with sensitive information? What are the consequences of recent events, the leak to the Russians and the leak from the Manchester attack on our Belgian intelligence services?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic765x.u58	Mr President, Mr Top, the security of the state has been working with a large number of foreign intelligence services for many years. The cooperation of the State Security with foreign intelligence services is part of the law of 30 November 1998 which explicitly mandates cooperation with foreign sister services. There is a lasting and genuine cooperation between the VCE and the Security of the State and the American intelligence community, certainly but not exclusively in the fight against terrorism. Since the attacks in Paris and Brussels, the exchange of information between the two has only increased. As in the case of the other foreign partner services, the CSCE remains attentive to activities which could undermine our national sovereignty or jeopardize the intelligence position of our service. At present, the VCE has no elements to question cooperation with the US partner services.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic765x.u59	Mr President, Minister, you refer to the legislation and its implementation. I know him myself. It is rather a surprise to note that the highest person in the United States has or leaks sensitive information. My concern remains to what extent we, as a small state, deal with this. You say that after the increase in the threat and after the attacks there is much more exchange of information between the various intelligence services. That was also one of the wishes of the various committees of inquiry. So much for the good news. You yourself said that the sovereignty of your own state must never be compromised. I continue to insist that partners should be informed that such statements by a President of the United States are inadmissible.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic765x.u60	Mr Minister, I would like to return to an earlier question of 18 October on the website www.verkeinsboten.be. You said: "The website www.verkeins.be is hosted in Belgium and the data is stored in the system of the FPS Justice." After some search work I found out that the IP address of traffic fines.be is hosted by Amazon Web Services cloud. The domain itself is registered by and owned by bpost. Getting additional information on this topic is not evident, but reading the privacy statement of bpost raises questions for me. The privacy statement states "the recipients of your data" bpost, AXI and CSC. CSC is an American company and therefore falls under US law, which stipulates that these companies must always be able to make their data available to the government and all those who control it. This is not an obvious fact if privacy and eavesdropping are observed. That worries me a little, and that is why I have the following questions for you, Minister. Do the company CSC, mentioned in the privacy statement, and/or the companies that receive the data, resort under US law? If so, was it given that the data should be made available to the US authorities in the decision to organise the website and its processing in this way? How do you feel about these findings?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic765x.u61	Mr Top, the database of immediate collections is running on premise at a Belgian company. This means that the data is stored locally in Belgium and on own servers. All other dates relating to the friendly settlements and payment orders are on MACH's servers at the FPS Justice Department. As of January 2018, all data, including the immediate collections, will be on the Justice servers and no data will be stored outside the Justice IT environment. Amazon's role is limited to hosting the website only. No servers or infrastructure are used in the US. The website is owned by the FPS Justice Department. The domain name is indeed currently owned by bpost. This allows bpost to intervene quickly in case of problems and to manage the layout and content of the website in the most efficient way. However, it has been contractually agreed that bpost will transfer the domain name ownership, if requested, to the FPS Justice on simple request and at no cost.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic765x.u62	Mr Minister, first of all I would like to refer to my previous question, because that is actually the reason for my concern about how sensitive information is dealt with at www.verkeinen.be. Your answer reassures me, however, that it has indeed been worked out in such a way that the data cannot fall into American hands, thereby ensuring the privacy of citizens in their own countries.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic765x.u63	Minister, I have already asked you on several occasions on this subject, as well as your colleague in charge of the Régie des Bâtiments. However, I would like to come back to this because it would seem that, again in this saga, the inauguration planned for 2020 is delayed. A meeting was scheduled to be held last June to present the plans of the new courthouse, but once again it was postponed. Meanwhile, security standards have been changed for courthouses. One of the new measures is a single entry. Changes had therefore to be made to the original plan. Minister, can you tell me where we are on the procedural level? Is the project to build the new Nivelles courthouse adjacent to the existing street Clarisse building still relevant? If so, when will the work finally begin? Can you give me an idea of when the Nivelles courthouse will be fully operational?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic765x.u64	Mr Crusnière, the project for a new building is still relevant. The new needs program has been submitted to the Finance Inspector accredited to my services. He has formulated many questions that my services are trying to answer. At the same time, the needs programme – which is not yet approved by the Inspector of Finance – has been sent to the Régie des Bâtiments for information, allowing it to analyse the impact of this programme on the existing project. Indeed, with the new safety standards, the project will need to be modified. For all these reasons, it is not possible to specify the timing at present.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic765x.u65	I thank the minister for his answers. I regret that, once again, this project is being postponed to the Greek calendia. You confirm the desire to build this courthouse, but each time new measures are imposed that affect the start of the works. I therefore ask you to make it a priority. It is a great need in Walloon Brabant and more specifically in Nivelles. I ask you to put all your weight in the balance to move this project forward.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic765x.u66	Questions Nos 21574 and 21601 by Mrs Jadin and 21588 by Mr Calomne are postponed. Debates of the European Parliament 21632 by Mrs Lahaye-Battheu and 21750 by Mrs Uyttersprot were postponed. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Crusnière's 21754, Mr Maingain's 21756 and Mrs Özen's 21772 were also postponed. Question No 1, by Mr De Pasquale (H-l Mr Maingain, Mr 21755, Mr 21761 and Mr 21762.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic765x.u67	Minister, Lantin's prison needs to be rebuilt. However, it would be rebuilt next to its current location, on land used for nearly 30 years for organic farming and of great importance to the inhabitants of the region. This project therefore raises oppositions on the part of the residents and the commune. Minister, what are the prospects for negotiations on this new location? The population of the municipality of Juprelle is not opposed to the presence of a prison in their neighbourhood; it is even accustomed to it. Since the municipalities of Paifve and Verviers are located nearby, it is possible to modernise the squares in a combined way. On the other hand, I know that there is a need to improve the care of inmates who suffer from mental disorders. It seems objectively that possibilities of organization between Paifve, Lantin and perhaps Verviers would help to avoid occupation of the organic agricultural area in question in order to rebuild this prison. In addition, the municipality is home to abandoned sites that could be requisitioned for this purpose. Minister, what is the status of the case? What is the true content of the project? What are the opportunities for negotiation and adaptation to meet each other's needs and good will?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic765x.u68	Mr President, Mrs Gerkens, Masterplan III provides for the replacement of the Lantin tower by reconstructing a prison in Verviers and, on the other hand, by erecting a new establishment near the present Lantin prison. As a result of this decision, immediate contacts were made with the municipality to discuss it. In fact, consultations have recently been held with the municipal services in the presence of the mayor and a representative of my cabinet and that of my colleague Jan Jambon, competent for the Régie des Bâtiments. All concerns have been heard at length and carefully, but the issue is still under consideration for the time being.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic765x.u69	I hope that if she's under study, there are possibilities... [[Without microphone]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic765x.u70	Minister, on April 4, the bill reforming the system of transgender persons with respect to changes in first names and/or sex registration in civil registration and its effects was passed. This Regulation shall apply from 1 January 2018. To date, practical arrangements have not yet been clarified. They may be included in various provisions, etc. The field associations tell me of their difficulties in presenting the concrete advances contained in this law, because their members still do not know how to inform the persons concerned on the question of how, practically, they will have to register their change of civil status in the commune; in which service, on what type(s) of forms. The procedures are, to date, different for first name changes, to be requested by mail from the FPS Justice, and the change of sex registration, to be made to the registrar. The deadlines are also extremely dissimilar. For a change of first name, it takes from 6 months to 1 year, with additional time to transcribe in the vital records. In fact, people have to wait between 6 months and 1 year to obtain a full update of their identity papers and, if the change of first name and the change of sex registration are requested at the same time, have to change the identity card twice, within a few months, the time limit for changing the sex registration is much shorter. Minister, what is the status of the work under way within the FPS Justice to allow for synchronization of these steps, when it is the will of these people, and to allow them to be carried out at the same time, at the same place with the registrar? To date, no Royal Decree has been enacted to define the practical aspects of the law. Can we know the agenda for the drafting of these orders? In addition, the same law provides for the preparation of an informative brochure for the competent departments? Can we tell what is the status of this brochure?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic765x.u71	Mr President, dear colleague, as you have indicated, the law of 25 June 2015 to reform regimes relating to transgender persons will come into force on 1 January 2018. It is important to inform the civil registry officers and the persons concerned about the new procedures relating to the registration of sex and the change of first name. My administration has already prepared several instruments for this purpose, in collaboration with the Institute for the Equality of Women and Men and the Secretary of State for Equal Opportunities. For example, a draft circular for registrars has been prepared, which has been submitted for advice to the various associations of registrars. These opinions are being processed. The circular will be circulated and issued as soon as possible. In addition, the information brochure referred to in the Act is currently being finalized and will be made available by registrars to persons making a declaration of change in sex registration. The information brochure explains the different stages of the new procedures and also details the different practical consequences. As provided by law, this information brochure will be published by royal decree at the same time as the circular. Furthermore, the models of declaration to be used by persons who wish to change the sex registration or change their first name have been established, such as the statement of the child psychiatrist in the case of a minor who wishes to change the sex registration. Both the information brochure and the templates will also be available on the website of the FPS Justice and the Institute for Gender Equality. With regard to the change of the name of transgender persons, I can inform you that the Council of Ministers of 20 July 2017 approved a draft law on various provisions in civil law which provides for a transfer of the procedure for changing the first name of the Minister of Justice to civil registry officers. This transfer of jurisdiction will allow the change of first name to be reconciled with the change in sex registration, so that individuals will only have to apply for new identity documents once. The Council of State delivered its opinion on this preliminary draft on 4 October 2017. Other opinions are expected: those of associations of Flemish and Walloon cities and municipalities, for example. Once the draft is adapted and approved by the Council of Ministers, it can be tabled in Parliament. Therefore, this means that the transfer of skills for the change of first name is likely to take place in 2018.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic765x.u72	(...) at the level of civil status, which will allow only one procedure to be undertaken with the same body. I understand that the circular and the information brochure will be completed as soon as possible. I assume that this means that they will be available before the end of the year, when the provisions come into force.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic765x.u73	Question No 21546 by Mrs Lahaye-Battheu is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic765x.u74	Mr President, Minister, last year the Veurne Prosecutor gave a lot of attention to an innovative approach. Before giving advice to the police judge, the prosecutor checks whether the accused still has fines open. The problem is that the prosecutor will have to contact the receiving office of the domains and penalty payments each time, which means that the case will have to be postponed. Of course, it would be more efficient for the Justice Department to be able to consult the finance database directly in this context. During last October's meeting of the Justice Commission, you stated that there was a basic agreement between Finance and Justice to give the prosecutors access to the database used by the authorities responsible for the recovery of the fines in the FPS Finance. You also mentioned that the pilot projects in Antwerp, Liège and Brussels, in order to send the fines of the police courts directly to Finance, had been successfully closed. It was decided to extend the automatic flow to all courts. On 12 September 2016, all police courts were linked to the automatic flow to the FPS Finance. With regard to the possibility for the public prosecutors to consult the databases themselves with unpaid fines, I am happy to hear since when the defined access is operational. Do you have any idea which parquets can use this or not, and to what extent? Is an initial evaluation possible? How do you evaluate the method of automated data exchange between police courts and FPS Finance over the past year? Has it led to an improved level of collection of fines?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic765x.u75	Mr Minister, the Veurne parquet has had a new working method for some time now. When asking for a milder penalty as a traffic perpetrator, one first checks whether there are still outstanding fines. If so, they must be paid before an alternative penalty can be imposed. This seems to work very well: in Veurne alone, 33 000 euros of fines could be collected in 2015, which would otherwise have remained open. It is a rather cumbersome procedure in the sense that the recipient of the domains and penalty payments must always be called in, because the parquets cannot check for themselves whether there is an outstanding debt. Hence the question of giving the Justice Department access to the outstanding fines. If that were possible, this could in any case give the Belgian Treasury several millions. We also know the figures, albeit not the recent ones. I asked a lot of questions about that back then. In 2016, around 300 million in penalty payments were not collected. This government wants to do something about that and improve the collection. In Ghent, there was already a pilot project in which bailiffs paid for their debts. This also resulted in additional returns. Questions have already been asked about this, and you said at that time that the Justice and Finance Departments were working on technical solutions to computerise the exchange of information and make it much better. That means that the Justice Department had to have some sort of controlled access to the Treasury database. I come to my questions. What is the current state of progress in improving the exchange of information between Justice and Finance? Has the inning of the penalty been improved in the meantime? If so, how many percent?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic765x.u76	Mr President, Mrs Lahaye-Battheu, Mrs De Wit, this problem is being addressed in the framework of the Consultation Body for the coordination of the recovery of non-fiscal debts in criminal matters, in which all partners involved in the execution of capital punishment participate. The access of the public prosecutors to the FPS Finance ICT applications is just one of many proposals. The fines shall be recorded in the First application, and the confiscations in the individual application 180BNFI. These applications need to evolve into a single computer system to allow a complete overview of the state of recovery. Direct access to these ICT applications under the magistrates is not yet operational. In the last year, the technical modalities of access to the ICT application First were examined in concrete terms. The realisation of the access will take place in consultation with the ICT services of the FPS Justice, through its own applications of Justice, through direct access to the ICT application First via the FPS Finance web service Generic Intake. I cannot give figures on the degree of improvement at the moment. I can say that the Justice Department has implemented this action line by drawing up a concrete process description, which resulted in three reports. These reports have also been submitted to and discussed with the other partners concerned, so that they can be worked in one line towards the final destination.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic765x.u77	Thank you, Minister, for your sometimes technical answer. The most important thing, however, is that direct access is still not operational. I hope it will come soon, because the way in which it was brought to the attention of last year is an efficient way of working. One cannot ask for a mild punishment if one has yet to pay. However, the prosecutor and the judge must know what fines have been paid. Apparently, that is still a question mark until today. I hope that you will pull the cart and make sure that direct access is there as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic765x.u78	Minister, I have the same reaction as Mr Lahaye-Battheu. It is a pity that we have not yet moved on. In this way a lot is lost and unfortunately that cannot be recovered. Moreover, it also gives a certain sense of impunity. We absolutely must do something about this. The digital world and social media are such that everyone knows where they are and what they are doing almost every moment of the day; they are tagged everywhere. However, if it has to do with government, justice, finance or other departments, it becomes a much more difficult story. I am very sorry about that.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic765x.u79	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic765x.u80	I didn't want to say it. I wanted to be polite. I try to understand that, but I do not understand it anymore when one sees what is possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic765x.u81	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic765x.u82	I do not know how you feel about that, but it does make people a little despondent. You know what I'm saying, Minister. If we see what can and should be done today, it is a pity that computerisation does not actually flow to these levels. Mind you, when it comes to the tax bill, people know very much; I recently noticed that in my declaration. But if it's those connections, it's too bad. I believe that it is possible and that it should be possible. We really need to push the accelerator there.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic765x.u83	Minister, figures I have requested from your colleague, the Minister for the Interior, show that the number of people who have made a declaration of legal cohabitation has remained stable in recent years around 80 000. The number of people who have completed such a declaration increases, from more than 40 700 in 2014 to 46 157 last year. In practice, it appears that a large number of couples do not officially but de facto dissolve their legal residence. Couples break up, but do not do what is necessary to end the legal cohabitation by means of a declaration on the Department of Population of their municipality or city. The reason is often that because of the breakup the partners are no longer able to go to the Population Service. It is possible that one of the two partners may unilaterally break up the legal cohabitation, but this requires a bailiff, which means the termination of the legal cohabitation. Many people flinch back for turning on a bailiff, also considering the costs that that entails. That is why I propose that the possibility of ending the legal cohabitation in a more relaxed way should be provided for, no longer through a bailiff, but through a registered letter, for example. I submitted that proposal a while ago and I have heard that this proposal was also discussed during a study evening on the legal cohabitation at Ghent University on 10 October, where the proposal was welcomed. Finally, the announcement also takes place from your ministerial position that a clear framework will be created for the patrimonial rights and obligations of legal and factual cohabitants. Minister, what is your position on the proposal that the legal cohabitation should no longer be ended unilaterally through the bailiff, for example by means of a registered letter? Do you like that proposal? What is the state of play on the reform of cohabitation property law?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic765x.u84	Mr Minister, since 1 January 2000, couples have been able to live together legally, and that is a success. This is already apparent from the figures quoted. In 2013, there were even more legal cohabitations than marriages registered. Despite the popularity of legal cohabitation, 60% would have insufficient knowledge of the rights and obligations of that statute. Too often people think that legal cohabitation gives the same rights as married people. Legal protection is therefore overestimated, both in the areas of taxation, inheritance law, assistance and the consequences of termination. This shows that cohabitants are not sufficiently informed or are not adequately informed, which may be due to the limited formal conditions attached to the declaration of legal cohabitation. The coalition agreement provides for the creation of a clear framework on the patrimonial rights and obligations of legal and factual cohabitants. Are you planning initiatives to better inform residents of their rights and obligations, as well as of the consequences of the simple termination and differences in relation to marriage? Have you already taken steps with regard to the patrimonial rights and obligations of legal cohabitants as registered in the coalition agreement? If so, what is the progress? Can anything be said about the broad lines? A legal cohabitation can, as has just been mentioned, be unilaterally terminated by service by the bailiff. How does the unilateral termination occur when a partner moves abroad and the costs are not equivalent to the unilateral termination?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic765x.u85	I understand that it is not desirable that a large number of social contracts should not be officially but de facto dissolved. In my view, there are three aspects to be borne in mind: firstly, those who can take the initiative to terminate, one alone or together; secondly, the way in which the termination can take place, either by means of a joint declaration or unilaterally with service; and finally, the consequences for the legally cohabiting partners. The latter point must also be taken into account when looking for solutions to the practical difficulties in organising a unilateral termination of the legal cohabitation. Both partners should be able to prepare for the termination of legal cohabitation, including housing, the use of undivided goods, possible maintenance claims and arrangements for possible children. I therefore think it would be desirable to review the whole system of unilateral termination, not only from the perspective of simplicity, but also of the consequences for the two people living together and the children. Indeed, many legal cohabitants do not have sufficient knowledge of the consequences of the legal cohabitation. The same determination could apply to married persons and to actual cohabitants. This does not prevent those wishing to live together legally from being sufficiently informed by consulting a notary or by the website www.belgium.be or www.notaris.be. The latter gives a complete overview of the rights and obligations of the legal cohabitants and the differences with marriage. All this information is also in a brochure, which can be downloaded. To the extent that this would not be enough, I can check whether a reference or link to that information can be included on the FPS Justice website. The reform of the Staff Regulations can also provide simplification and clarification. As regards the question of service in the context of a unilateral termination of the legal cohabitation in the event of a transfer abroad, I can refer to the general rules of service laid down in the Civil Code. The fact that one of the parties is resident abroad, does not have a known place of residence or is automatically removed does not pose a problem for the termination of the legal cohabitation. The rules on service provided for in Article 40 of the Civil Code provide for a reception facility for cases where no place of residence or residence is known in Belgium or abroad. Finally, the Working Group focused primarily on the reform of inheritance law, published in the Belgian Official Journal of 1 September 2017 and, secondly, on the reform of matrimonial property law, where a legislative initiative will soon be finalised and submitted to Parliament. The working group then and finally examined the unmarried couples. However, the reflection exercise and work on it have not yet been completed. I hope that this can be done before the end of the year, so that a text can be submitted to Parliament in spring 2018.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic765x.u86	I thank the Minister for his reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic765x.u87	Thank you, Minister. I am particularly concerned that people overestimate the protection provided by the statute: some believe that marriage and legal cohabitation are the same. I understand that there is a brochure in circulation, which may also be offered digitally. Another solution may be to order the personal appearance of persons who make a declaration of legal cohabitation at the bourgeois stand. Until now, there is no such obligation. Such an obligation would improve the provision of information because, as in the case of marriage, the rights and obligations can be clearly explained. Moreover, it could be an instrument in the fight against the sham-law cohabitation. With our group, we are certainly already working on a text on the obligation to make personal appearances when making the declaration of legal cohabitation. For the rest, I look forward to your initiatives as well.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic765x.u88	Minister, the new law is now more than three years old. The law lays down new rules on the regime of persons who are no longer able to manage their goods or make personal decisions. In addition to a director for goods, the law also created a director for personal matters. The law expressly favours a director who comes from the immediate vicinity of the protected person. Only in second instance can a professional director be appointed. That's usually a lawyer. In your reply of September 2017 to my written question about this, you based yourself on data from the National Register. It shall enter the name, first name and address of the administrator. On the basis of that data, the number of persons in office on 1 March 2017 was 104 418. At that time there were 40 260 active directors: 25 071 directors on the goods, 1 576 directors on the person and 13 613 directors on the goods and the person. It is assumed that most family directors appear only once as directors in the National Register. Any person who appears more than once shall be considered as a professional director. The number of persons occurring at least twice is 1 116. Probably that figure is not complete, because not all directors are registered with their national register number. It is also unclear how many files each director has under him. From the philosophy of the law, which prefers the family director, I asked myself what the relationship between professional and family directors is three years later. Is the legislator being followed and more family directors are being appointed than before? Unfortunately, it has been said a few times here, and it seems that these data are very difficult to obtain from the government. With regard to the relationship between professional and family directors, there is only the lack of data from the Interior. No data could be provided from the Justice Department. In the answer to my written question it was said that the figures of the peace courts for 2016 after the judicial holiday would be on the website of the support service of the College of Courts and Courts. This was not the case at the beginning of this month. Measuring is knowing. If we are to legislate here and adopt new laws, then we must also be able to know to what extent this makes a difference in the field. It's very difficult to measure. Finally, I would also like to mention the criticism that occasionally appears about professional directors. At the beginning of last year, as a minister, you announced that there would be a revision of the rule of law. The OVB would be part of that. The introduction of statutory tariffs would also be discussed. I would therefore like to ask you the following questions. First of all, can the Justice Department provide data in the meantime? If so, what are the figures? Secondly, what is the state of play regarding the reform of the law? What elements were taken into account? Which ones are still under discussion?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic765x.u89	Mr Minister, shortly after the entry into force of the Law of 17 March 2013, it was established that a number of issues in the Law called for amendments. We all received the three-king letter at the beginning of last year. The aim is, of course, to evaluate and improve the functioning of the law. Improvements are mainly about making procedures more accessible, especially for family directors. In addition, it concerns the setting of costs and fees of directors, the improvement of the quality of the medical certificate, as well as the computerisation and standardisation of the keeping of a number of figures, including professional relations with family directors. In last year's policy paper, you indicated that you would submit a preliminary draft to the government this autumn. At the same time, you would also be working on the computerization of the procedure. A central digital platform would be established where the various actors concerned would have access to an electronic file. In this way, the aim in future would be to ensure that the process and communication are conducted as electronically as possible. Minister, what is the state of play at the moment? When do you plan to amend the law? Are there any figures available on the number of professional or family directors for 2015 and 2016? When can we expect the Royal Decree on the costs and fees of directors? Has a decision been taken on the improvement of the medical certificate? If so, how will this improve in the future? Where are we on the creation of the central digital platform, as well as on the standardisation of the input codes?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic765x.u90	Mrs Lahaye-Battheu, Mrs Uyttersprot, on the statistics relating to the number of applications for judicial protection that have been made since the entry into force of the new law on governance, the support service of the College of Courts and Courts has informed me that it is not yet possible to provide reliable figures. The delay and availability of data has to do with the roll-out of the new uniform system in the administration of the peace courts in order to keep track of the statistics of the peace courts. This rollout is currently being carried out. At present, a large number of cantons still use their own set of codes and customs, which means that reliable national figures cannot yet be provided. The introduction of the uniform system will therefore make it possible to obtain more adequate statistics in the future. The support service is working on a new statistical publication to ensure uniform figures across all cantons and arrondissements by means of transparent counting rules. A first new publication of figures can be expected in 2018 depending on the roll-out of the uniform system. The support service has manually requested and now manually processed the total number of new and settled matters relating to regime for 2016. These figures will be available by the end of this year. It is true that a preliminary draft law was drawn up aimed at simplifying the provisions on the regime of unqualified adults and at computerising the procedure for governing the administration. A first version was discussed this spring in the Wilson proficient working group, which was composed of all the actors involved. At the same time, some written opinions were sought. The Working Group made a number of fundamental comments on the text. The preliminary draft has now been amended in the light of all these comments and will be discussed in the government this autumn. In fact, the preliminary draft proposal proposes an improvement in medical data to be delivered to the peace court. This improvement consists, on the one hand, of providing additional information from, inter alia, the patient file and, on the other hand, the possibility of using accredited doctors or forensic psychiatrists. The draft Royal Decree on the costs and remuneration of directors, Article 497/5 of the Civil Code, has been prepared and this has been prepared in consultation with the relevant actors. This royal decree requires a small amendment of the law and will therefore be published in the Belgian Official Journal together with the announced law. The Central Register Management project is currently in the analysis phase. A business analysis is made in consultation with the users. In parallel with this analysis, the legal framework for this register is established. As soon as the process drawing is ready, technical development will take place. As regards the standardisation of import codes at the peace courts, I can tell you that the APG members have developed one national kit. This kit N has already been rolled out in 72 cantons. By the end of June 2018, my intention is to equip all peace dishes with such a kit. The APG members also participate in the meetings related to the development of the Central Digital Platform.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic765x.u91	Mr Minister, first of all, it is of course a pity that we must also note in this dossier that it is not possible to give a national picture of the relationship between family and professional directors. We cannot accept that. You also replied that work will be done on it. There will be manually counted. In 2018, there may be global figures. Secondly, you have stated that the design of medical data and of costs and wages is in progress. I hope that it will include an important part of simplification. On the ground, we note that it is often difficult for the family director, who has been preferred by the legislator, to carry out his task because a lot of him or her is being asked. For some, it is too difficult to produce an annual report and the accompanying documents. The professional director is then taken back again. In the spirit of the law, therefore, there is also a need for evaluation and adjustment on this point.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic765x.u92	Minister, I would just like to thank you for the state of play on the evaluation. The only thing I would like to add is that I share Mrs Lahaye-Battheu's frustration at the lack of opportunities to obtain the figures. It is what it is, but if we want to evaluate it it is essential that a number of things can be identified in order to distil the possible problems. As long as the figures are not available, we can only complain about them. We are told that obtaining the figures in 2018 is one of the possibilities and that some figures could be obtained manually by the end of 2017. Thank you very much for the state of play.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic765x.u93	There are no more questions.
