ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic729x.u1	Mr President, Prime Minister, my question brings you back to Walloon Brabant. I look forward to such assistance to deal with the fate and social liabilities of former workers of the Clabecq Forges, where Raoul Hedebouw made his debut when he was very young and not yet quite of voting age but nevertheless already bilingual - it was his first act of arms! I am promoting the PTB here because I am a historian and I have no desire to bother our socialist friends. You know this: you have already been presented with 67% of the questions asked to you in plenary on Thursday in June. It wasn't Mrs. Fonck but Mr. Dispa, if my memories are good. I will not go back to the history - dating back to thirty years - of state aid recognised as such by the European Commission, of the unfortunate bankruptcy of the Forges de Clabecq, the flagship of metallurgy and of Belgium's industrialization in Walloon Brabant. As many years later, for some of these workers, particularly employees and executives, social liabilities have not been settled. The Nivelles Commercial Court is about to rule on this case. Mr Prime Minister, what is at stake here is both symbolic, in my view, but also terribly important for the workers concerned. We are talking about a sum of 17 to 20 million euros which should be allocated as part of this social liability to workers. There are fewer and fewer of them: time passes and deaths occur. The situation is becoming extremely difficult. Prime Minister, since June, you have had the opportunity to reflect on this issue and, above all, on the reaction of the state, through its Ministry of Finance, to a court decision that could be favourable to workers. It is a matter of preferential payment of a claim. The social fund is still being financed, but the action initiated by the Federal State was based on the assumption that the workers concerned were no longer the first to benefit from what had been due to them for many years. Prime Minister, you know the situation, the court will decide, but it is important to know the state's point of view, which you represent. What will his attitude be when a provisional or final judicial decision is made? It is important that the State respond positively to this long social expectation.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic729x.u2	Mr President, Prime Minister, my colleague has just pointed out how dramatic the situation is for the people concerned as well as for their families, especially for the families of workers who have already died. Indeed, this file is not dated today. Judicial proceedings are under way. But so far, the state has always bowed to favour its interests above all to the detriment of those of workers. Court proceedings can be pursued infinitely, but it is now time for this to cease: the state must act towards the workers. Last June, you mentioned meetings with curators that could lead to a solution and finally come out of this endless and dramatic maze. Have these contacts been successful? As a representative of the State, have you been able to unblock this file and find a way out of this delicate and complicated issue?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic729x.u3	Mr Crusnière is abroad. The Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic729x.u4	Mr President, I have a duty to do a few retroacts in this matter for the good transparency of parliamentary debates. I will then answer more precisely the question of a political nature that is asked of me. On the basis of the information provided to us by the Finance Administration, I have several elements to communicate on this case, which is over thirty years old, as you have indicated. As part of the recovery plan which the Forges de Clabecq benefited from since the early 1980s, several loans were granted to the Forges by two Belgian companies, Belfin and SNCI. For the latter, four loans for a total amount of BFR 4.5 billion at the time were granted thanks to the cover provided by the State which had decided to act as guarantor for these loans. In addition, each loan was accompanied by an irrevocable mortgage warrant granted to the SNCI by the Forges, which will then be converted into mortgages. In 1982 and 1985, the European Commission authorised under certain conditions the guarantees attached to part of these SNCI loans. Ten years later, the financial situation of the Forges is unfortunately not improving and the Belgian authorities decide to draw up a new restructuring plan to maintain the activities in Clabecq. This plan contains various measures: a new capital injection for 1.5 billion Belgian francs from the Walloon Region and a rescheduling of the debts accumulated by the company. On 25 June 1996, the Belgian authorities notified only part of this plan to the European Commission, which stressed in a letter of July 1996 that the June notification contained no information on the conditions for the rescheduling of Clabecq's debts and that other non-notified measures had been reported in the press. In December 1996, the Commission finally found, in the light of the documents transmitted by the Belgian authorities, that the measures taken in favour of the Forges de Clabecq, i.e. the State guarantees for the Belfin and SNCI loans, constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 1(2) of Decision 3855/91/CK. It therefore urges the Belgian authorities to abolish the aid concerned and to require the return of the illegal aid already paid. As regards the rescheduling of debts, the Commission considers that the extension of the guarantee for these loans to an additional three years certainly represents an increase in the element of the debts contained in the guarantee and concludes that the guarantees for the Belfin and SNCI loans and their extension to the deferred maturities also constitute unlawful State aid since they were granted without its prior authorisation. We are at that time in 1996, European Commission, illegal state aid. This decision is contested by the Belgian authorities. Despite this, it will be confirmed by the Court of First Instance of the European Communities in 1999 and by the Court of Justice in 2003. Still facing major financial difficulties, despite the huge sums lent by the State guarantee, the Forges were unfortunately declared bankrupt in January 1997. Following the bankruptcy, the State executed, as it had undertaken, almost all of its guarantee for the benefit of the SNCI, i.e. more than 1,1 billion Belgian francs, on 6 April 1998, and a sum of more than 140 million Belgian francs on 5 February 1999. The purpose of the early partial execution of this guarantee was to lower the capital, on which the interest was running, and to charge the SNCI for the recovery of this claim, and then to repay to the Belgian State what could be recovered. In June 1998, the trustees decided, as was their right, to file an application before the Commercial Court of Nivelles, to challenge the validity of the mortgages, arguing that they were void because they were constituted at the outset of a State guarantee deemed illegal by the European Commission, and this was confirmed by the court and by the European Court of Justice. Only ten years later, the Nivelles Commercial Court ruled in its 2007 judgment that the legal claim should be recovered and ordered the reopening of the proceedings concerning Fortis Bank's claim, previously SNCI. The trustees appeal this decision and the Brussels Court of Appeal confirms, in its judgment in October 2012, the admission of the claim of BNP Paribas Fortis (BNPPF), formerly Fortis Banque, to the preferred liability of the bankruptcy of the Forges de Clabecq, at a rate of 36.7 million euros. An appeal in cassation is brought by the curators against these decisions. It was rejected on 10 January 2014 by the Court of Cassation. I am not saying that this has been the case in the question, but I would like, with regard to certain messages conveyed, to clarify certain points and to clarify what caused this extremely long delay: it is not a hostile attitude of the state or government in previous years. It is the proliferation of judicial proceedings and the slowness of decisions in these cases. Curators have systematically lost over the course of the procedures introduced for more than seventeen years. Following the judgment of the Court of Cassation, a meeting was held in 2014 between the State and BNP Paribas Fortis. At that time, it was decided that BNPPF would take the necessary steps to obtain repayment of the claim from the Forges, in accordance with the judgment rendered. In the meantime, three letters have been sent to the parish ward by the BNPPF councils. In response to these letters, the curators, as they have been doing for 17 years, have once again called into question their obligation to pay their debt in full, despite the court decision. In the face of recovery difficulties faced by BNPPF, the Belgian State decided to make the payment of the remaining debt due and thus to terminate BNPPF's disinterest, in accordance with the commitments undertaken by the State in the early 1980s. This subrogation was given in front of a notary in December 2015. As a result of this procedure, the State has, as has been the case so far, initiated proceedings with the trustees to obtain repayment of the claim. The curators, however, rejected it again. On 2 June 2016, the Belgian State responded by sending a letter to the Judge Commissioner requesting that the procedure follow and that an asset allocation be implemented. As I said in plenary on March 30, the federal government has a great deal of understanding and empathy and wishes to better support the workers, some of whom have been waiting for many years, the end of the procedures undertaken by the curators. Despite all these legal and judicial retroacts which, in terms of the application of the law, do not give them the right, we want to remain open. Since my firm and I were engaged, we met several times with the curators of the Forges de Clabecq. I also expressed my willingness to meet with local authorities. We tried to set appointments during the summer, but without success – for calendar reasons. Above all, we have accepted the curators' proposal to jointly introduce a conciliation procedure – which could offer us prospects that we will have to examine legally – at the Nivelles Commercial Court. The hearing was scheduled for November 7. In this context, we wish, in good faith, to look at the legal possibilities. However, between the generosity you have expressed – and I want to share – and the legal reality as well as the concern of the Department of Finance – which I also understand – to see a precedent set on the basis of a fundamental principle, namely the question of the privileged claims that the State is confronted with in many cases (liquidation, possible bankruptcies, etc.).), we have to see if there is a legal path to finally get out of the rut, thirty years later. Please forgive me for having been a little long in the presentation of the retroacts, but it was in order to make you understand the complex legal dilemma facing the Ministry of Finance, which, on the one hand, is well aware of the sad situation of the workers who are victims of this bankruptcy, but which, on the other hand, must take into account the principles of law and a risk of legal precedent in terms of the recovery of debts owed to the Belgian State.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic729x.u5	Prime Minister, thank you for your answers. You have reminded us of history, with state aid, the role of the European Commission and legal arguments. We will link the written document in the full report of our work. I welcome the fact that, politically, you are moving towards conciliation. It seems to me to be a new element. I remember the date of November 7th. There is, however, a flat. I understand your concern not to create a legal precedent on the part of the Department of Finance. I'm not a lawyer, I'm a historian. In our country's history, are there many similar cases, cases that are so wide-ranging over the years and also specific in relation to metallurgy, steel, state aid and the European Commission? I wonder! For a precedent to exist, there must be similar cases. I would like to take into account the situation of those workers who have been waiting for so many years. Some workers have received what they were entitled to and are not too interested in reading legal controversies. On the other hand, they expect what you call understanding and, dare I say – it's a fashionable word – benevolence!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic729x.u6	Prime Minister, thank you for this historic response. There's a conciliation procedure, it's probably a good thing. But the whole thing is to know what the position of the State will be. I would like to plead for the State to take a position and make a clear gesture, which is justified for two reasons. First of all, you say you fear a precedent. In my view, there is little risk that this will be the case simply because there has never been such a long time in bankruptcy proceedings. Moreover, the State is not white as snow in this case since it has agreed at some point to honour illegal guarantees. These elements justify a gesture by the State. We are faced with a particular situation which requires that an equally special position be taken. In conclusion, Prime Minister, we cannot simply rely on legal considerations. Social and ethical considerations must also guide the State in its position. Workers have experienced a dramatic situation and thirty years later they are still suffering the consequences unilaterally and unfairly. It is time, in my opinion, to get out from the top of this situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic729x.u7	Question No 18470 by Mrs Fernandez Fernandez is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic729x.u8	Mr President, Prime Minister, on 8 April 2017, the mandate of the members of the Commission for access to administrative documents expired. Thus, the Commission, which is an essential part of the procedure laid down in the Law of 11 April 1994 on Public Administration, is no longer active. It can only become active again once the government has decided on the new composition, the royal decree in question has been published and the members have taken the oath. Until then, citizens who are experiencing difficulties in obtaining administrative documents will no longer be able to call on the Commission. I submitted my question at the end of June. Subject to my mistake, I have not yet seen a decision on the appointment of the new members of the Commission. My questions are therefore, of course, subject to reservation. Firstly, why did the government extend the mandate of the members of the Commission for access to administrative documents and not regulate a new composition in good time? Secondly, I assume that you have a high regard for public administration in our democracy. Thirdly, has the government already appointed the new members? Has the decision been taken, has the royal decree been published and have the new members taken the oath? Fourthly, when will the Commission be active again? Finally, how could citizens assert their rights in the interim period when the Commission was no longer legally constituted?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic729x.u9	Mr President, Mr Top, the Commission for Access to Administrative Documents consists of six effective members and six alternate members. The members are appointed for a renewable four-year term of office by royal decree, adopted after consultation with the Council of Ministers. On 5 July 2016, by means of a letter, the President of the Commission drew our attention to the fact that the mandates of the members appointed on 8 April 2013 by the Royal Decree would expire on 8 April 2017. From the moment we received this letter, my cabinet has examined the legal procedures required to announce the renewal of the Commission and to attract applications from experts in this field. It was quickly found that no publication procedure was foreseen. That is why I have asked the Chancellery to propose candidates who are authorised to sit as members. Before the appointment of external experts, it was found that the profiles sought were rare and difficult to identify. A large prospect was carried out by the services of the Chancellery to find the appropriate profiles. Unfortunately, one of the persons eligible to sit in the Commission finally rejected the proposal. Unfortunately, therefore, new investigations had to be carried out in order to find new candidates with the necessary competences. The delay in the appointment of the new members of the Commission can therefore be explained by the fact that it is in some ways difficult to find people who have been recognised as experts in this field. The Commission can meet again today. The royal appointment decision, approved by the Council of Ministers on 2 June 2017, was published in the Belgian Official Journal on 17 July 2017. The new members took the oath last Thursday for the Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic729x.u10	Thank you, Prime Minister, for the answer. However, I understand from your explanation that between 8 April 2017 and last Thursday's oath, the Commission was unable to meet and could not meet legally. Although I can put forward many arguments for the fact that the profiles of such committee members are rare or that these members are difficult to find, this indicates that the seriousness of the citizens' rights in our country is being taken into account. The Commission has not met for four or five months. You did not answer my question as to how the citizens who asked the question were dealt with during that period. I note that this question, like the questions that were raised at the beginning of this committee meeting and which also dealt with the issue of public administration, is taking a step forward. I hope that this will not happen again in the future and that the government will take much earlier action to bring together the Commission for access to administrative documents much faster.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic729x.u11	The questions of Messrs. Van Hees and Hedebouw are identical. As for Mr Crusnière, he is on a mission abroad.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic729x.u12	Mr President, please excuse my friend and Comrade Marco Van Hees, who is suffering this week. That's why I reintroduced her question so I could ask her in her place. Prime Minister, this issue goes back to the NATO Summit held in Brussels last May to discuss its counter-terrorism strategy and to obtain an increase in the budgets and military interventions of its member countries. Donald Trump strongly demanded $119 billion in additional investment from the allies to reach the 2% of GDP threshold. For your part, in any case, you have committed Belgium to increasing military spending, not only through the recently approved military investment plan, with a view to replacing, in particular, fighter aircraft, but also by making new pledges of contributions to the Belgian intervention in Syria – therefore, by freezing the planned savings in defence by 2018. NATO Secretary General Jens Stoltenberg has already described this effort as insufficient and demanded that the Belgian budget be doubled in order to reach 2% of GDP as soon as possible. This means an additional 4 to 5 billion dollars invested annually in the Belgian military budget. My questions are very concrete, Prime Minister. What exactly were the Belgian commitments at the Summit? How will they be achieved in terms of maintaining operations and increasing budgets in the years to come? What about the 2% of military investment GDP for Belgium? We had heard discordant voices in the majority on this matter. That is how Mr Peeters felt that this rate should not be made a fetish. Mrs Rutten of the Open Vld considered that it was impossible to reach 2%. I would therefore like to know the firm and unequivocal position of the government: yes or no, have we committed ourselves to achieving the 2% of GDP in terms of military spending? Then there were a lot of complaints about a bid that would be tailored for the American candidate Lockheed Martin with respect to the purchase of combat aircraft. Could the possible purchase of F-35 be part of the measures promised to satisfy the American ally? I'm not necessarily talking about a written agreement. Finally, how much did the organisation of this NATO Summit cost Belgium?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic729x.u13	Mr Hedebouw, I will of course answer you in detail, but I am sorry to repeat information that was given extensively during the parliamentary meeting that preceded the NATO Summit. The method of systematically asking questions that have already been answered is somewhat specific. Nevertheless, I submit myself to parliamentary discipline, since that is your wish. In addition, please convey my best wishes for good recovery to your comrade Marco Van Hees. The special meeting on 25 May, which was not a Summit, was an opportunity to officially transmit its new headquarters to NATO. In our view, this event was important to our country, which may be proud to welcome many international organizations on its soil, but also to have contributed to the construction of this important infrastructure designed to look like intertwined fingers. The building wants to be a symbol of unity and cooperation between the twenty-nine allied countries. Burden-sharing and the fight against terrorism were formally on the agenda of the extraordinary meeting of Heads of State and Government. The allies unanimously supported NATO's plan of action in the fight against terrorism. On that occasion, NATO decided to formally join the international coalition. This is an important political act, but NATO, as an organisation, will not conduct combat operations. The pressure of the United States on burden-sharing has given rise to heated debate. Some countries announced reaching the 2 per cent target in 2024; others remained more reserved indicating that security was not just a matter of cash or financial resources. Military and operational capabilities remain extremely important. Soft power is also essential to me. That's one of the points I highlighted. The Secretary General noted that the downward trend in Defence spending had been halted. He reported an increase in the common budget of 0.5 per cent in 2015 and about 3.5 per cent in 2016. In 2018, eight countries are expected to meet the 2% target set at the Wales Summit, compared to five today. For Belgium, I referred to the priorities set out by my colleagues and myself in the Committee on External Relations on 23 May. Belgium wants to remain a reliable ally. The Council of Ministers decided to stop reductions in defence spending. The 2017 budget is therefore expected to stabilise at 0.92% of GDP. In the future, in line with the government's strategic vision, our defence spending will have to increase gradually towards the average spending of European, non-nuclear, NATO countries. We are clearly part of the vision that everyone's contribution to burden-sharing is understood not only by meeting budget commitments but also by developing capabilities according to NATO's expectations, as well as by deploying troops to different operational theatres. The input/capacity/output joint is the reference triptych on which we rely. It is in this spirit that the government continues to implement the strategic vision at the capacity level. As you know, the F-16 replacement RfGP is underway. Two responses were received on 7 September. The RfGP is a market that aims to be transparent, including for operational scenarios. In addition, France has offered us a partnership offer. The legal capacity of the government to take this offer into account is currently being analysed. The programme for a partnership with France for the acquisition of motorised capacity was read and adopted by the Council of Ministers on 22 June. On 30 June, the Commission launched the LTTV program, which aims to bring new vehicles, primarily to motorized units in the Earth component, and subsequently to special forces. It is also in this spirit that Belgium has decided to respond to the demand of its allies. For example, we have replaced the failure of the Netherlands to ensure the resumption of the ODF mission, i.e. the presence of the F-16s in the second half of 2017, as initially agreed between the two countries. On the practical level of the mission, the Military Operations Monitoring Committee met on Wednesday, 28 June. I would add that our country has reduced its system to four F-16s, resulting in a reduction in the budget. Would you like me to refer to President Trump's comments on Iran? I want to be clear on the subject of calling into question the nuclear agreement, on which I spoke at the United Nations rostrum. We do not share this challenge. We believe that critical dialogue is essential for de-escalation in order to reverse the threat. The cost of this special NATO meeting before the summer is approximately €2.6 million for Belgium. These expenses do not represent additional costs compared to the 2017 budget, since in the vast majority of cases we were able to absorb these expenses within the framework of the forecast budgets that had been validated by Parliament, without having to change the level of the necessary expenditure. On the other hand, I am very pleased to inform you – certainly, Mr Hedebouw – that we have proposed to reorganise a NATO meeting. This time, it will be a biennial summit. The decision was made recently. This summit will take place in July 2018. This is good news, we believe, in order to anchor the international role of our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic729x.u14	Prime Minister, thank you. On the return of the issue, I recall that the statements of the Secretary-General of NATO were made after the informal summit. He punched on the table to demand that budgets be increased. It wasn't before the Summit, it was after. He intervened in that direction again.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic729x.u15	No, he did it long before!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic729x.u16	He did it before. After the Summit, he said he was not satisfied at all. I can hear you. You say you're going to make the European average, but I didn't hear you decide whether the 2% was a goal or not. I would have liked to hear from you, "No, that's not a goal for us." It would at least have been a clear political decision. But obviously, you're still in the dark. I believe that it is in our best interest to be transparent in this area. Secondly, with regard to NATO's unity and cooperation, Prime Minister, and in order to bounce back on the current situation, in my view the danger lies in NATO linking us, in particular with Article 5, to the United States. As a result, Trump's declarations of war against Cuba, Venezuela, Iran and North Korea, etc., will commit us indirectly. When you talk about NATO, stressing that NATO is a symbol of unity and cooperation, I have the feeling that NATO is a symbol of war, of politics in contrast to soft power. NATO AS bombs are not soft power, I can certify it to you! So I can only plead for a distance from NATO. You have our position on this matter. In my view, NATO is far from the solution to global geostrategic balances.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic729x.u17	Prime Minister, during 2016, the Court of Auditors carried out a review of a series of public contracts awarded by your Chancellery, the FPS Foreign Affairs, Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation, Mobility and Transport, Employment, Labour and Social Concertation, the SPP Social Integration and the Federal Police. The Court noted serious and numerous shortcomings with regard to these public contracts, both in the award of contracts and in their execution and management. More seriously, the Court found "the absence of recourse to a public procurement procedure for certain supplies or services subject to the legislation in force, in particular for legal services and situations of exclusivity". It has also pointed to delays in the payment of claimants, a phenomenon that is sometimes likely to undermine the financial situation of claimants. These findings are problematic, especially when they are carried out by the federal state, by ministries or by the Chancellery, whereas each of these entities should set an example in terms of ethics and seriousness in the management of public affairs and in the use of the means granted to it. Prime Minister, how will the federal government take this report of the Court of Auditors into account and implement the recommendations it contains? Have you ever given any instructions regarding the implementation of the measures recommended? If so, how and on what time frame will these be assessed?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic729x.u18	Mr President, we have immediately carefully analysed the findings and recommendations of this report from the Court of Auditors. I note that this report is an extremely useful document. We can draw conclusions and consider improving certain processes, especially since, as you know, public procurement legislation and regulation are particularly voluminous and complex. At the level of the Chancellery FPS, I would like to highlight two points. The first is that in just three years, the Chancellery and its partners involved in the process have done a huge and colossal job, particularly with regard to the transposition of European directives on public procurement. By way of comparison, the work of transposing the previous Directive into Belgian law had lasted more than seven years. We have been twice as fast to carry out this absolutely enormous work in technical and legal terms. I would like to highlight the mobilization of the advisers and officials of the Chancellery who have worked intensively on this subject. We have, of course, paid particular attention to the legibility of the rules, the competition and the access of SMEs to these markets. The Council of Ministers of 30 June 2017 also approved the adoption of a circular setting out the rules on combating social dumping for federal contracting authorities. A similar charter, focusing on SMEs' access to public procurement, is being developed. As you can see, we want to improve the clarity of the rules adopted. Secondly, in its report, the Court of Auditors makes two recommendations concerning the Chancellery. First, it considers that it would be useful to assign a person to audit and coordinate procurement files. This is already the case, but the designated official has left the Chancellery. The new personnel plan, which I have approved, provides for the recruitment of its successor. Secondly, the Court of Auditors recommends that all documents relating to the award and election of a contract should be kept in a single and complete file. I gave instructions to the Chancellery to proceed in this direction. Initiatives have already been taken by the government with respect to cross-cutting recommendations. The government agreement and the Council of Ministers decision of 3 July 2015 on optimisation of the federal administration already provide for advances for centrally coordinated federal procurement. These processes are currently being implemented. A procurement model is put in place and is based on three pillars: federal consultation, centralisation and professionalisation of procurement processes, a horizontal entity that provides support to vertical entities. This work is the responsibility of the Minister of the Public Service. In consultation with the Strategy and Support Department, I have also requested my services to present the Court of Auditors' recommendations to the various FPSs and to draw the attention of the services concerned to compliance with the rules referred to in those recommendations, in particular the rule providing for the payment of interest in full and without delay. As regards the delay in payments by providers, the government agreement provides for the generalisation of electronic invoicing. We rely heavily on the progress of e-invoicing to speed up processes and correct certain weaknesses. With regard to measures specifically aimed at one department or the other, it is the responsibility of the officials concerned to provide the necessary follow-up. As regards the evaluation of internal public procurement practices, a draft royal decree is being prepared for the implementation of Title 4, Governance, of the 2016 Public Procurement Act. This provision provides that the application of the rules on the award of public contracts must be monitored by the competent authorities, the publication of control operations and the transmission of a report to the commission every three years. This report may serve as a basis for an assessment of the evolution of procurement practices at the level of federal contracting agencies. We will continue to follow closely the recommendations of the Court of Auditors.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic729x.u19	Prime Minister, I did not ask you about the transposition of the directives, but you took stock of the matter. I will therefore allow myself a comment on our expectations. The way in which the Public Procurement Directive is transposed allows the introduction of sustainability and ethical criteria that are too absent from this type of procurement. I agree with you when you say that the fight against social dumping must be a priority and that it is one of the tools to be used to implement it. As regards the more technical recommendations of the Court of Auditors, they do not require further comments. I would simply like to recall our concern for an example in the head of federal public authorities in this area. Public procurement is of very high economic importance to our businesses and all rules must be respected in this regard.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic729x.u20	Question No 19561 by Georges Gilkinet is postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic729x.u21	Mr President, Minister, we are not going to repeat the debate here on whether or not nuclear energy is appropriate. That is not at stake. However, my question is related to requests for documents. For more than a year, I have been asking your colleague the Minister of Energy to give me a copy of a series of documents, which she refuses. As provided for in Belgian law, I have referred the matter to the Commission on Access to Administrative Documents. My approach does not mean that I automatically have the right to have access to these documents, but the Commission must be able to decide whether or not to do so. Sometimes she decides yes, sometimes she doesn't. It makes quite sense. I have already done this with the Federal Nuclear Control Agency, with ONDRAF, with a series of public institutions. However, the Minister not only systematically refuses to give me access to the documents in question, but also refuses to provide them to the Commission for the Commission to judge. This is not acceptable. The law makes it clear – and the Commission has pointed it out in interim decisions four times to the Minister – that the Commission is obliged to verify itself to what extent the requested documents can be described as environmental information. It is not for the minister to judge. It must forward the documents to the Commission or inform the Commission of the reasons justifying the refusal to transfer the documents. A debate on this subject must take place with the committee, but it cannot decide alone not to transmit the documents requested of it. At the time, it did not even respond to the Commission's requests. Today, I appeal to you as head of government, all the more so since you committed yourself, in the debate on Doel 1 and Doel 2, to be transparent when the request is legitimate and justified, on the understanding that this is not always possible. As far as I'm concerned, I've applied the rules. It took a year. I seized the minister, then the commission. I have waited for the interim decision of the Commission and the final decision of the Commission that no grounds of exception may be invoked against the Commission on the basis of the law of 5 August 2006. I suppose you won't contradict that decision! Minister, I come to you to instruct you, the order – I do not know what term it is necessary to use for the message to pass well – to the minister to respect the law, to stop being a judge and a party, to communicate, if she cannot hand over the documents in question, her arguments so that the latter can deal with it. I would like to make it clear here that I tabled this question in June, but it was not possible for me to ask you because you had an international obligation on which I will not return. In the meantime, by chance, one of the four files I had requested was communicated to me. However, in the face of the Commission, the minister did not have a correct attitude. The Commission is clear four times. I'd like to hear from you about these cases, but also about the future. Can these documents be made available? In any case, I would like the minister to respond to the Commission in a useful way.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic729x.u22	Mr President, first of all, I would like to thank Mr Nollet warmly for drawing my attention to these important issues. I confirm that whenever this is legitimate, transparency must be possible. I have only been able to read part of the many appeals you have filed with the Federal Appeals Board for Access to Environmental Information. Indeed, in 2016, of the 29 decisions issued by the Commission, more than half concerned your requests. I congratulate you on this productivity. In 2017, this proportion reaches even two thirds, as 9 out of 14 decisions concern your initiatives. The Commission notes this in its 2016 report. The Commission received 16 appeals from a single applicant. With regard to the four final decisions that you mentioned in the preparation of this parliamentary question, I will point to the information that I have at my disposal. First of all, as regards Decision 2016/29 of December 2016, following an article in the press, you brought an action before the Commission to obtain a set of studies provided for in the Tihange Convention on the extension of nuclear power plants. The Minister informs me that she has questioned her administration, DG Energy, on this subject, which replied that she did not have any document containing the results of studies relating to the extension of the nuclear power plants operated by Electrabel, which were provided for in the Tihange 1 Convention. The second point relates to decision 2017/1 of February 2017; your request concerned access to the summary and evaluation reports of the work carried out by the institution and the undertaking concerned, established in 1998, pursuant to a resolution of the House adopted in 1993 under the Dehaene II government. In this regard, the Minister informs me that she has taken into account the Commission's decision and has instructed DG Energy to forward this report to you. You mentioned it. This was done last August 17th. The third point concerns Decision 2017/4 of April 2017. This follows on from your appeal to the Commission to be able to obtain all the figures "on the discount rate for nuclear provisions and in particular on a multiannual table of the negative deviations and the height of the compensation which has had to be made over the last five years, if possible over the last ten years, specifying the discount rate in force and the rate which had been reached for each of those years." On this specific document, which is being requested, the Minister tells me that she questioned her administration, which replied that she was not in possession of the information requested, as you put it. The minister also asked – in good faith, it seems to me – the body that is supposed to hold this information to transmit it, in accordance with the Act of 5 August 2006. The letter of 18 August 2016 was sent to the Nuclear Provisions Commission, which acknowledged receipt of the request. With regard to decision 2017/5, which concerns your request for access to the Tripartite Convention between the State, the provisioning company and nuclear operators, as well as your request submitted on 25 November 2016, the Minister informs me that the Convention that you have been requesting has been public since 2003 and that it can be consulted on the House's website. I would like to make the reference to that document available to you. The Federal Commission is an administrative review body established by the Public Access to Environmental Information Act 2006. It is responsible for making independent decisions in this regard, as guaranteed by article 30 of the Constitution and the 2006 Act. It may also deliver opinions. This essential body must be respected by the authorities which fall within its scope and, of course, by those who request it. The message is extremely clear: I hope that the functioning and prerogatives of this committee will be fully respected.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic729x.u23	Prime Minister, thank you for that clarification. I hope that you will also pass them on to your colleague. Indeed, for several files whose references you cited, we finally got some answers. With regard to the 2003 document, we received it in August, as you indicated. However, it has been a year and a half since we asked for it and the Commission decided that the minister had to pass it on – even though she refused to do so. As a matter of fact, things started to move from the moment I asked you my question. Good! That said, I don't want to bother you every time.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic729x.u24	I know she's not your type!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic729x.u25	That's not my type, is it? I think this is the first time I've asked you about this.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic729x.u26	That's right. It's Kristof Calvo who bothers me from time to time.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic729x.u27	Each one's job. In any case, we expect you, but above all the minister, that we should no longer apply to the Board of Appeal. However, as you have indicated, we often have to turn to it. It would, however, be sufficient for the minister to provide us with the documents in question or to report to us that they are available at a particular location. However, this would not be fair, because the versions differ. But I won't go back to the details with you, since I got an answer to every point she had addressed. In short, I would like to see that in the future we should no longer go through the Commission and, therefore, that the minister submit to the law, possibly responding to the specific arguments that you have put forward today. It is not normal for a minister to stand as a judge and refuse to comply with the law. You called him back, and I thank you for that. We will pass on the signal, hoping that this will reduce the number of appeals to the Commission.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic729x.u28	Mr President, Prime Minister, the setting is actually perfect, with the chairman of the Working Party on Political Renewal, who is also leading the sitting, to come back to the issue. We had an exchange of views on the subject at the plenary session on 29 June. My question dates back to the beginning of July, which gave you time to check it out. At that time, during the plenary session, we had a first exchange of views on greater transparency regarding lobbying activities within the executive. The Working Party on Political Renewal has indicated that steps must be taken in this area at the level of the legislative authority. Soon this will also be articulated and formalised in texts. Last summer it was very difficult to persuade the government to adopt a clear position or to adopt clear modalities. You indicated at the plenary that you would be open to this and that you would like to devise a workable system, although I think it is right to say that sometimes consultation should be possible, with a degree of discretion, and that only after a certain amount of time can or should be made public. You gave the example of Audi. Of course, it is not our request that, at the time you enter into important negotiations with Audi, the dossier should be made known immediately. It's not gonna be about that kind of business. It is a search for a workable system that responds to your legitimate concern, but also to the concerns of many, in order to gain more insight into the interaction between the outside world and the political world, the executive power in particular. That doesn't have to be dirty. Transparency can help. In fact, these contacts are often useful. Therefore, it would be crazy to lock us in Parliament and in government cabinets. However, it is important to establish a system in this area. We may not be drafting the legislative text together today. However, I hope to find out a little more from you than before the summer. That is why I have the following more specific questions. What do you think are the modalities of such a system? Is the government prepared to cooperate in a coherent system? Do you have any particular method in mind, for example with Parliament and government or with the government itself by means of a draft law? If so, within what time limit do you consider that possible? Finally, do you consider the lobby paragraph to be a reference to the interactions that form the basis of a particular legislative initiative, as a possible useful instrument and/or alternative? In the end, legislation must create transparency where it intervenes most in society on matters which are part of the process of legislative initiative. That could be a step forward. I look forward to your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic729x.u29	Mr President, Mr Calvo, in terms of good governance and transparency, I do believe that we need to work harder and better to regain citizens' confidence. In my opinion, this reflection should centre around three key pillars, namely greater transparency, better prevention of conflicts of interest and a reduction in the number of mandates. A few months ago, I called for cooperation between the majority and the opposition to conduct a rational and credible debate on these key elements. A working group was set up in Parliament, chaired by the chairman of this committee, who worked tirelessly from March to June to present a report at the end of July. As I said in plenary, a great deal of progress has been made on a large number of issues. I have also given you concrete examples of restrictions and problems in the context of a possible lobby register in plenary, for example when the situation requires the government to maintain discreet contacts to attract investment to Belgium, for example in the context of the Brexit. I already gave the example of Audi. AB InBev is another example in the context of important strategic choices of these companies. The large number of contacts can also be a problem. The ministerial Cabinets are indeed faced with numerous questions about contacts between citizens and associations wishing to raise awareness on some subject. Finally, to date there is no regulatory or legal definition of the interest group or of the type of contacts that should give rise to a communication or information. Even with the potential difficulties in practice in such a decision, I said before the summer that my Chancellery and I could be available if Parliament decided to think further in this perspective. Mr Calvo, you are not alone in this House. If there were a majority in Parliament to ask for it, we would be available to look at it further, but it should not be given the impression that it is in practice easy to establish such a lobby register.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic729x.u30	Prime Minister, when I asked my question, and indeed on previous occasions, I made it clear that there are legitimate concerns and legitimate limitations. At no time have I given the impression that this is already on everyone's copier and can be knocked off tomorrow. However, we are still in a situation in which Members of the Political Renewal Working Group can confirm to the President that this was on the list of many Members, while you are now returning the ball to Parliament, by saying that you want to cooperate if there is movement in Parliament. This ping-pong game isn't very productive. In that sense, I am somewhat disappointed in your reply. It would have been a stronger signal if you had confirmed that you wanted to cooperate and seek solutions for both the legislature and the executive, because we would have really taken a step forward, as we have already taken steps forward in the lap of the Political Renewal Working Group on some other issues. Mr President, I am addressing you now. The Prime Minister said he was open to this. During our next work, we may have to pump up this issue a little bit, approach it very voluntaristly and take matters into our own hands. It does not really seem like the government is going to take an initiative and it would be a pity to leave that issue at all.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic729x.u31	I shall now turn to my own question No. 20094 will be translated into a written question so that we can finish the day order as much as possible, in view of the current debate, and in view of the fact that I am expected to attend the Conference of Presidents together with a number of others. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Crusnière's 20399 was postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic729x.u32	Prime Minister, the 2013 law gives Prince Laurent a number of rights, including a generous fee of more than EUR 300 000. In return, he must fulfil a number of obligations. For example, he must be given permission from your government, or from the Minister of Foreign Affairs, whenever he wishes to have contact with a foreign representative of a government. Just here, the shoe has pinched several times. In the past, he has already had unauthorized contact with Heads of Government in Congo and last year there was contact with the Prime Minister of Sri Lanka. You made it clear at that time that the measure was full and that you would make it clear to him in a conversation that this was actually his last chance. And yet Prince Laurent continues happily. This summer we learned from the social media that he was in contact with the Chinese military leadership at the Chinese embassy, in uniform. Mr Prime Minister, we have the impression that to make Laurent feel that it is serious, a conversation alone is not enough. You were therefore very clear in your response last summer when you suggested a proportional sanction but that there would first be a conversation with the prince. Last week, he said he was gonna be sick and that he was gonna contact you through his lawyer. Of course we wish the prince of these banks much better, but the matter must of course continue. Hence my rather punctual but clear questions. Has there been a hearing with Laurent, or a hearing through his lawyer? I read in the press that it was intended to take place before the end of the month. By the way, are you willing to talk to the prince through his lawyer? Since no specific procedure has been laid down in this respect, what procedure does the government intend to take into account in this respect? Does the government have a proposal for sanctions? What exactly will this proportional sanction entail? Is it a one-off or a final sanction? I look forward to your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic729x.u33	(...) are governed by the Act of 27 November 2013 concerning the amounts and fees granted to members of the Royal Family as well as the transparency of the financing of the monarchy. As a result of the unauthorized participation of Prince Laurent in July in the celebration of the ninetieth anniversary of the Chinese army in the presence of Chinese government officials in Brussels, I was given the mandate at the Council of Ministers on 1 September to hear Prince Laurent. An official letter of invitation was sent to Prince Laurent, who wished to exercise his right to be represented. The meeting with the lawyer took place yesterday. We are going to deal with the matter further and the matter will come back on the agenda of the Council of Ministers, as determined by the legal procedure. At this stage, I would like to be very reluctant from a legal point of view to respect the rights of the defence and the framework prescribed by the 2013 law. It is therefore too early to give a ruling on a possible sanction.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic729x.u34	Thank you, Minister, for your answer and for letting us know that the discussion took place yesterday through his lawyer. I am pleased that you have made it quite clear here that this was an unauthorized meeting at which Prince Laurent was present. You yourself suggested a proportionate sanction this summer. It's the least that can happen. For us, it can go even further. We understand that Prince Laurent is struggling with the straitjacket in which the dotation law cast him. We want to free him from that straitjacket, from that yoke. For us, that dot may be stopped. Then perhaps he can deal with the matters to which he himself attaches great importance.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic729x.u35	Ladies and gentlemen, we now come to the joint questions, which you have heard that I have been informed this morning that a topical debate is going to be associated with them. Let me explain this briefly. I refer to Rule 125 of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber. Under that Rule, speaking time is limited to two minutes for one question, five minutes for the government and two minutes for the reply. With the exception of the political groups of which a Member has already asked a question, one more speaker may speak per political group, including for two minutes, either at the time of the question or at the reply. I will not be very strict on those two minutes, but I would like to ask that speaking time should not be doubled, because I will certainly draw your attention to that.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic729x.u36	Prime Minister, as you went to the UN General Assembly, the Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration Theo Francken welcomed a delegation from Sudan on Twitter. In the meantime, we have learned that three of the five members of this delegation have been identified as members of the NISS – this is not invented! – the Sudan National Intelligence and Security Service, the Sudanese government secret police. In welcoming this delegation, your Secretary of State assumes full and public responsibility for cooperating with the regime of Sudanese President Omar al-Bashir, the only head of State in power to be summoned to the International Criminal Court for war crimes, crimes against humanity and genocide. In April, in the columns of La Libre, your Secretary of State felt that sending migrants from Maximilian Park to Sudan was indecent because it would then be working with a dictatorship. That was before! In September, a member of your Government decided to invite the Sudanese police, under the orders of the tyrant Omar al-Bashir, to help his services identify people who are precisely fleeing this dictatorial regime. Prime Minister, is there an agreement, oral or written, between Belgium and Sudan on this cooperation between the Sudanese police and the services of the Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration? I understand from our previous debates that this was an oral agreement. If so, do you assume him politically as head of government? You were at the UN a week ago, and you quoted Gandhi there. Does not the fact that Sudanese President Omar al-Bashir is under two arrest warrants issued by the International Criminal Court on 4 March 2009 and 12 July 2010 encourage you to consider Theo Francken's collaborations with Sudan as diplomatically inappropriate? Is this initiative not likely to undermine Belgium's chances of being a member of the UN Security Council? Under the Act of 15 May 2003, the Sudan is on a Belgian list for the embargo on the sale of goods and services related to military and paramilitary activities. Do you consider that Belgian cooperation with Sudan is compatible with the spirit and letter of this embargo?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic729x.u37	Mr Prime Minister, the point is clear: an agreement would have been reached with Sudan, an African dictatorial regime. Is this agreement concluded in writing? Do you assume political responsibility for this? I join the request to be able to obtain a copy of it. It is impossible that such an agreement should not be written. We have the right to know about it. With regard to the composition of the mission, several testimonies relate to the presence of members of the Sudanese security services. Who were the members of this identification mission? I assume that has also been agreed upon. Are some of these persons part of the Sudanese security services? We discussed last week whether the fact that these Sudanese did not apply for asylum in Belgium was a sufficient reason to expel them. Secretary of State Franken has been very clear about this on his Facebook page. On 16 September, he wrote: "If they do not apply for asylum, they must return voluntarily, if possible, forced if necessary." On September 18, he confirmed his comments on Radio 1. On September 20, he confirmed on Facebook: "A person who does not apply for asylum must return, of his own free will if possible, forced if necessary." The Secretary of State is very clear about that. He says that if no application is made in Belgium, we have the right to take them out. Later, last Thursday, Minister Jambon said about Article 3 of the European Convention on Human Rights that it is apparently not so clear. Do you condemn the words of your Secretary of State? Do you confirm that they are incorrect? That article 3 of the Convention was very clear on the subject and that no one could be expelled simply because he had not made an application? Or are you covering the words of your Secretary of State? It is a matter of a very clear political nature. I hope I have a very clear answer from you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic729x.u38	Mr President, a return policy is ultimately inevitable for any policy on asylum and migration. We have procedures. People who rightly need protection can stay in our country and integrate further. People who have been rejected or who do not apply for asylum must return. We are in complete agreement on this. However, this return must be done with respect for human rights. Cooperation with the countries of origin is very common. This isn't new. Nor is it new that there is cooperation with embassies. What has surprised us is cooperation with Sudan. The Secretary of State had said in April that he would not want to cooperate with Sudan because it would be necessary to negotiate with a dictator. Our first question is therefore what has caused you to be prepared today to negotiate with a dictator. Prime Minister, I am glad that you have just said that this decision was never formally dealt with at the Council of Ministers. However, Mr Jambon said this last Thursday in plenary. How was this decision made? How's the procedure going? Should we not ensure in future that such delicate decisions go through a well-defined, strict procedure in both the government and Parliament? I know that there are readmission agreements, including at the level of Europe. There is inter alia the Cotonou Agreement, cooperation with African and Caribbean countries, and Pacific countries. I am wondering whether a European cooperation was established with Sudan. The situation in Sudan is well known. We know that we are dealing with a dictator responsible for more than 300 000 deaths. By the way, Belgium is one of the financiers of the criminal case against that dictator. Does such a cooperation agreement exist or do we do so bilaterally? What about the information, anyway? I was at the Maximilian Park myself at the beginning of September. It is true that many people do not want to apply for asylum, but there are others. Why did DVZ call off the information campaigns? I would also like to know whether these information campaigns will continue until the final stage, namely in the closed centres. One possible solution, Prime Minister, is that in some cases Dublin is not applied. The Dublin Agreement provides that it can be applied. One can call it in, but for whatever reason, if that can also be humanitarian reasons, then it can be decided not to call Dublin. So I'm trying to find a way out of there. I have one more question. When we point out people, this must always be done with respect for Article 3 of the ECHR. They must not be at risk of torture. I believe, however, that we are not at all sure of this. What guarantees do you have or did Mr Francken have that these people will not be tortured? I ask myself serious questions about that. How will you guarantee that these people will not be at risk, neither they nor their families? Finally, I am not saying that we should give carte blanche and that everyone can just stay in our country, but there are other solutions. There is Dublin, as I mentioned, but there is also cooperation or sending people back to a safe country in the region. That is why it does not have to be Sudan.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic729x.u39	Mrs. Lanjri, can I really ask you to finish?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic729x.u40	Did the government consider that piste, too? Mr President, I am trying to be constructive.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic729x.u41	We've been at four minutes, ma'am.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic729x.u42	I would like to make a number of concrete proposals not to send people back to a country where they may be dying.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic729x.u43	Mr President, Prime Minister, I will begin my speech by asking you if you are quoting this quote: "The entire government and I stand as one man behind the policy of our Secretary of State." Yes, no, forbearance? No answer! All right! Who says no word consent!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic729x.u44	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic729x.u45	There are many indignities.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic729x.u46	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic729x.u47	I'm not doing a show. Those are the words of your Deputy Prime Minister. He expressed them in plenary last Thursday. I wanted to know if you confirmed them or not.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic729x.u48	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic729x.u49	I come back to Thursday, when, on behalf of the government, Minister Jambon gave the following information: "It is crucial, especially in the current context, that we find the identity of the people present in our territory. Following two interviews between the Secretary of State, Mr Franken and the Sudanese Ambassador to Belgium, it was decided to authorise an identification mission." Do these words mean that the government has authorized this mission? The wording of this reply stating "it was decided to authorize" brings me to the question of who made the request. Is it Belgium or Sudan? Who took the initiative in this meeting? Was the latter done with the approval of the government? When I heard your speech at the beginning of the committee, I had fears. Indeed, engaging a country to collaborate with one of the world's worst dictatorships without warning its colleagues or perhaps even its foreign minister seems problematic to me. But I can't wait to hear your answer. Have you personally been consulted about this meeting and authorization? The Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of the Interior also said: "This practice, which is not exceptional, exists in other Member States. In recent years, many European countries have carried out forced returns to Sudan." Can you tell us which ones? Are these forced returns of which Mr. Franken boasts, for which the first passes were issued, executed with the help of a delegation of officials specifically from the Sudan? Do you guarantee these passes don't send these people to death or torture? Yesterday, on the air of La Première, the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Foreign Affairs, Didier Reynders, went up to the niche to support European and Belgian migration policy I quote: "The European Union, with socialists and environmentalists in governments, has concluded an agreement with Sudan, as with other countries, to ensure that we can work together on the migration side. We should therefore stop making things look like things in Belgium and say something else when we are in European parliaments or governments." Prime Minister, what agreement is your Foreign Minister talking about? Documents were requested at the beginning of the commission. We still haven't received them. So I look forward to hearing from you. Is it a bilateral agreement between the European Union and Sudan or is it the Khartoum process that is a partnership with some 20 countries? If so, in this partnership, is there any clause that suspends the possibility of forcing the return of rejected or illegal asylum seekers with regard to fundamental rights and freedoms, especially when we know what is happening in Sudan today? Finally, this is my last question, since my colleagues have already asked a number of questions to which I agree. Yesterday, Mr. Franken, who could not help tweeting, said that he was received in court at the Royal Palace. Was this hearing organized by the insult it represents for our country? I would understand that when we reach such a level of collaboration, even the King is concerned about the situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic729x.u50	Apparently, Mr. Maingain is not present.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic729x.u51	Mr Prime Minister, I have two blocks of questions after your reply. The first block of questions contains two questions. Firstly, when and how did Secretary of State Francken receive the support of the entire government, as we heard on Thursday? Secondly, if there was no formal support from the Council of Ministers in advance, has the Secretary of State shown caution in contacting you or Minister Reynders and getting in touch with them? If so, did you or did you not discuss the framework conditions during that contact with the Secretary of State? If there was a prior contact that did not discuss the cross-compliance, is my conclusion correct that he was given a blank cheque to fill in the matter himself? The second block of questions contains a large number of questions, since we do not get the document on which there is doubt as to whether it exists or not. However, the Chamber is entitled to a detailed answer to the detailed questions I have given you in writing. For the sake of the Rules of Procedure, I shall now have to read them out. First of all, did any identifications happen yet? How many happened? How many of the identified persons were found to be Sudanese? Was Article 3 of the ECHR systematically applied to every Sudanese? How many of them did the application of Article 3 of the ECHR prevent repatriation? Secondly, how does the review of Article 3 of the ECHR take place in practice? I hope she happens individually. Who is conducting the review? Is there a report coming up? Does the person who is the subject of a possible expulsion receive the ECHR review? Thirdly, when is the review under Article 3 of the ECHR taking place? Is she being DVZed? Based on what information does she take place? Is this only with the help of information obtained by Belgium or also by information submitted purely by Sudan? Fourthly, how will our country double-check the findings of Sudan? Fifth, is a DVZ official always present at every step of the identification? Is there translation for the DVZ official or are the conversations only in Arabic or in another language that the official does not understand? Sixthly, what efforts are currently being made in the closed centres to ensure that the Sudanese still apply for asylum? Seventh, how many of the 103 suspected Sudanese people in closed institutions have in the meantime applied for asylum? Eighth, how will repatriation take place? When will she happen? Will she happen all at once? Am I correct in saying that asylum can be applied for until the day before the repatriation? Ninth, is it sufficient for Sudan to know that it is a Sudanese person to be repatriated, or should full identity be established? Tenth, provided that it is sufficient for Sudanese nationality to be established in order to be repatriated, in what circumstances will further identification take place? Will Belgium check them? Is a return envisaged if it turns out that it is not a Sudanese? Finally, are those who will be identified informed about the standard operating procedures? If so, how? I would like a detailed answer to those questions. If the government does not show the necessary care to make written agreements with Sudan, then at least the Chamber has the right to hear from you in great detail how the procedures are going and what guarantees there are to ensure that international and national law in this area is respected.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic729x.u52	Prime Minister, I hope that we will agree that Sudan is a terrible regime that violates human rights and commits many atrocities. I hear the government wants to avoid a Calais bis in the centre of Brussels. I recall that the living conditions at Maximilian Park are inhuman and the health reality is catastrophic. Avoiding a Calais bis in Brussels does not justify doing anything, no matter how and under any conditions. I know very well that identification missions exist with a number of countries, but this has never been the case with a State as worrying as the Sudan. In recent days, the government has invoked Europe by recalling the Valletta Convention. Sudan is an explicitly cited country in the Khartoum process. After careful consideration, this Convention of La Valette does not in any way authorize the practice of expulsions with Sudan and does not guarantee security in any way. The Valletta Convention does say that there is a need for practical arrangements for bilateral cooperation and dialogue and also for measures to ensure safe return and reintegration. Prime Minister, last Thursday, I asked what agreement had been signed. I was sure there was none, which you confirm today. Yet the Secretary of State met the ambassador personally and was photographed in his company. The Ambassador is the representative of the President of the Sudan, who is the subject of two arrest warrants of the International Criminal Court. It's not annoyance. They did not only drink coffee together, they had to conclude a number of provisions: who would move, in what capacity, with what responsibilities? Could these Sudanese police officers or intelligence services decide instead of Belgium? What safeguards have been put in place to ensure that such evictions do not become synonymous with torture? When an individual is identified, what are the guarantees that his or her own family remains in the country and is not subjected to retaliatory measures? All these issues had to logically be discussed and marked by a precise framework and guarantees given given the particular nature of the Sudan. Mr Prime Minister, have you discussed this meeting between Mr Franken and the Ambassador to the Council of Ministers? Did you endorse it? Have you notified in writing the framework and the guarantees that should be provided, not only in order to comply with the European Convention on Human Rights, but also in order to respect the Valletta Convention which you have mentioned several times in recent days?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic729x.u53	Prime Minister, the controversy over the situation of illegal migrants in Maximilian Park and the cooperation between the Belgians and the Sudanese authorities arose a little more than a week ago, and it remains well-maintained. I would like to put it in context. Police officers, who arrived in large numbers on several occasions, had to carry out on-site interceptions, which resulted in approximately 160 people being taken to the closed centre. Of these, just over 100 are alleged to be Sudanese. The government, with good reason, does not want the creation of a Calais bis in Belgium, as a colleague has just pointed out. He learns the lessons from what happened this summer in France, and that is legitimate. It is also legitimate to seek to identify, especially in the international context we know, those who are illegally staying in Belgium. They do not really cooperate, as many of them have destroyed their identity documents. We therefore do not have the capacity to identify them ourselves, and we have called on Sudanese administrative authorities to cooperate technically and administratively in this identification. It is understood that, at the same time, we have told and reminded these people that they can still apply for asylum in Belgium and that if they do not want to cooperate in their identification, it is their right as well. This cooperation, of which we pretend to be surprised, exists under international agreements that are not new, since they date from 2014. This is the Khartoum process, which was put into practice a year later at the Valletta Summit. To outline, given our extremely limited speaking time, this agreement consists on the one hand of helping on the spot, as the European Union does (about 400 million in four years and 200 million in 2017) and, on the other hand, of cooperating in the identification by sending missions from the countries of origin. That is what we are living in Belgium for the moment. It is not only in Belgium: France did, Italy did, Norway and Sweden did too. The figures are available. Prime Minister, for those people sent to a closed centre, can you tell us what is the status of the identification process? How many have applied for asylum in Belgium? How many passes were issued and how many people were expelled? What is the exact scope of cooperation between Belgium and the Sudanese authorities? What is the profile of Sudanese administrative agents coming to Brussels? What is the state of play at European level in the Khartoum process and in collaboration with Sudan?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic729x.u54	As has already been said, in the context of a topical debate, the political groups which have not yet taken the floor may be in agreement either with the questions or with the replies. Does anyone want to take the floor now? [[No.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic729x.u55	Then I give the floor to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic729x.u56	Mr. President, like Mr. Van der Maelen has expressed the wish, and I will try to answer in detail the various questions that have been asked. First of all, to be clear, I want to say that the answer given by Jan Jambon last week in plenary session was on behalf of the government; it has therefore been validated by all the parties that make up the majority. This removes any ambiguity on this subject, if there were to be one. Secondly, for the second point I want to highlight, some retroacts seem important to me. It is the anchoring of this majority with a government agreement that expresses our ambition to pursue a migration policy that is both human and firm. It is a balance to be constantly sought in this complex, delicate matter which has become more complex over the last three years, given a number of conflicts in southern Europe which have increased the pressure on the migratory ground. I want to state without any ambiguity that, over the past three years, this Government has consistently made every effort to fully comply with national and international migration obligations. I remember that not so long ago, a similar controversy lasted a few days or weeks about a Syrian family. We heard screams, accusations, insults. A few weeks or months later, on the whole line, the European bodies legally validated the decisions taken by the Belgian authorities! I have heard few parliamentary questions after the decisions of the European Court of Justice, with the support of many, not all, European states made up of political majorities similar to ours. With regard to international obligations, I have some figures to establish an upgrade and to remain as rational and objective as possible. International protection was granted by Belgium, in 2015 to 10,783 persons, in 2016 to 15,478 persons and in 2017 to more than 9,000 persons. Within the European class – I refer to the official statistics on the subject – Belgium is particularly welcoming in comparison with other Member States. It was seventh in 2014, eighth in 2015. Even better, in 2016, Belgium was the sixth European state to grant as many international protection statutes as per million inhabitants. By the end of 2017, Belgium will have resettled 1,100 people in two years; 1,032 of them have already arrived on Belgian territory, twice as many as previous governments. It also relocated 997 people from both Italy and Greece. This number will increase further by the end of the year, as places have been made available according to the number of persons still eligible for relocation. The government also issues humanitarian visas, more than the previous government: 1,182 in 2017 until the end of June, 1,185 in 2016, 849 in 2015, compared to 208 in 2014, 270 in 2013 or 211 in 2012. I come to the question of Maximilian Park. Here I would like to thank Catherine Fonck for the observation she made with Philippe Pivin. Indeed, we are facing a problem that I do not underestimate. A few months ago we saw the start of problems in the surroundings of the South Station and of the North Station and also in the Maximilian Park. We were confronted with this difficulty, since the censuses of services and authorities led to the observation of between 200 and 300 people in this Maximilian park in early July. These people arrived gradually in the weeks before June. The security forces and the authorities have carried out a number of checks. Thus, between 9 June and 30 August 2017, 378 people were checked by the Brussels police. There were 292 adults and 86 minors, and 68 persons were placed in a closed centre. These are mainly single men aged 15 to 40 and mainly from Sudan, Eritrea and Syria. Those people want to reach England for various reasons, for example to join their community or their family. They often speak better English than French or Dutch and they think they can work there illegally. The Department of Foreign Affairs and Fedasil were charged with carrying out an information campaign aimed at migrants. That information campaign didn't stop. I therefore confirm that the instruction was given to continue that information campaign. The purpose of the information campaign is to raise awareness of, firstly, the possibility of applying for asylum in Belgium and the procedure to be followed, secondly, the possibility of voluntary return with the support of the competent services, and thirdly, in the event of refusal, the risk of forced return. They were also informed of the possibility of applying for international protection during their detention in the closed centres. The Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees has indicated its intention to participate in these information campaigns despite which most people did not want to apply for asylum in Belgium. It is wrong to claim that they do not do so because the message is not clear or conveyed by the right people. Field associations and bar associations have also undertaken to inform and the authorities have a mandate to give full information, including, Mr Van der Maelen, as regards the possibility, until the last moment, of applying for asylum, which opens up a more formal capacity for taking over by the State services. These people are on our territory because they have returned illegally to European territory via one of the border Member States. They therefore know that if they apply for asylum here when they have already applied for asylum in another Member State, they risk being returned to that first State, in accordance with the Dublin Regulation. This would prevent them from achieving their goal of joining Britain. For these reasons, they cannot be considered as asylum seekers. By staying unlicensed in our territory while refusing to apply, they automatically enter a situation of illegality. So during the summer we have a situation where there are 300 illegal persons in Brussels, the majority of whom do not want to apply for asylum. We must assume our responsibilities there, also with regard to security. It would be irresponsible for the government not to take any initiative. I confirm that we do not intend to allow what has happened in France for many years to develop. There will be no Calais bis in Brussels. We take our responsibility in this matter! For reasons of security, public health, the fight against trafficking in human beings, the protection of unaccompanied foreign minors, we cannot allow such a camp to be set up in the centre of Brussels. As far as the Sudan and the Sudanese are concerned, those who claim to be Sudanese citizens, who claim to be Sudanese, account for half of those arrested. They did not apply for asylum. I have just heard at the meeting that, since last night, a Sudanese has applied for asylum. One! Moreover, they did not report any fear of persecution in the event of return. As a reminder, in accordance with the Geneva Convention and European law, if the person refers to fear of persecution or fear of serious violations in his country of origin, and therefore applies for asylum or subsidiary protection, no contact shall be made with the government of the country of origin from which he claims to come. Apart from an application for asylum, the person has a choice between a voluntary return and a forced return. In the latter case, the migrant does not provide an identity document. A forced return cannot be considered, except with the cooperation of the embassy of the country of origin, after identification of the person, and therefore after the production of a pass. It is within this specific framework that the Secretary of State, in the course of at least August, took the initiative, in accordance with European and international law, to organise, in cooperation with the Sudanese Embassy, an identification mission. There were two meetings between the Secretary of State and the Embassy representatives to allow for the establishment of an identification mission. The Sudan fulfils its international obligation to take back its nationals who are in an illegal situation in another country. And according to the information given to me by the Council of State, this is indeed a one-off mission. There was no agreement as such, except for technical or practical cooperation. In fact, our country has such cooperation on forced return with many other countries without necessarily - sometimes the country of origin does not want it - a formal framework. Often, it is within a technical framework, a practice of cooperation between the various departments, that this cooperation in the field of return policy is established. We are not the only Member State in the European Union to organise this type of mission with Sudan. To my knowledge, the United Kingdom, France, Italy and Norway also do so. Eurostat also confirms the statement made by the Secretary of State on this subject. According to Eurostat, France organised such a mission with Sudan between 2014 and 2016, which led to the return of more than 200 people. She confirmed it yesterday. Still following Eurostat, last year Italy sent 40 people back, Sweden sent 15 people back and Ireland 5. Norway has returned 60 of them in recent years. I now come to the identification mission. According to my information, the Sudanese delegation is composed of members of the Ministry of the Interior in Khartoum and elected by the Sudanese Government. These persons were screened by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, by the Security of the State and by the General Intelligence and Security Service. Let me turn to the specific questions of Mr. Van der Maelen. The delegation went to the closed centres to conduct interviews with persons who claimed to be Sudanese nationals and who agreed to participate in the interview. Individuals may refuse to meet with the delegation or respond during the interview. A person from the Foreign Office is always present during the interviews. At this stage, there has not yet been any removal. If a person is identified as a Sudanese national and there is no objection to his removal - a laissez-passer has been issued, the principle of non-refoulement has been respected, an individual analysis has been made and there is no suspensive remedy - it could be repatriated. If the person is not identified, another embassy could be contacted based on the elements of the file. If no identification is possible, no return is possible, as you know. As far as procedural guarantees are concerned, the orders to leave the territory and the decision to remove them are taken by the Department of Foreign Affairs. On that occasion, the Foreign Affairs Office analyses the potential risk of a breach of Article 3 of the European Convention on Human Rights, which prohibits inhuman and degrading treatment. To do so, the Office of Foreigners relies on all the elements in the file and on a case-by-case basis. The situation in the Sudan is not such that no remedy necessarily constitutes, by definition, a violation of article 3 of the European Convention on Human Rights. This should be assessed on the basis of the information provided by the migrant on a case-by-case basis. Article 3 of the European Convention on Human Rights provides that "no one may be subjected to torture or to inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment". This is a cardinal principle that we must watch out for. This is obviously an extremely important element for me. This principle of non-refoulement, a key principle of international refugee law and also applied in the assessment of the return of a migrant, stipulates that no State shall in any way return a refugee to a country where his life or freedom may be threatened. A person who receives a decision on expulsion may, moreover, bring an action before the Council for Aliens' Disputes. In the case of an appeal in a matter of urgency, the decision on expulsion will be suspended. If that person mentions his fear of repercussions on the return to his country of origin, he himself may, after the decision to remove DVZ and after the identification, submit a request for international protection, which will result in the removal being suspended. According to the information available to me, the procedure is in accordance with national, European and international law, in particular with respect for the principle of non-refoulement and the right to a remedy. I now turn to the Dublin Rules and to European law. According to the Dublin Regulation, it is possible for a Member State not to apply the return mechanism for certain asylum seekers in the country of arrival and to treat them directly as such. However, in this case, unfortunately the question does not arise - I would like to say - because in the vast majority of cases they do not apply for asylum. This is an extremely important point. I understand the meaning of your intervention, but this fundamental aspect must be highlighted. The question of the Maximilian Park is not unique to our country: many Member States of the European Union face the same difficulties. Asylum and migration policy have been the subject of a reflection which has been going on for several years and which has intensified at European level, as you know. The aim is to remedy the shortcomings in the implementation of the current mechanisms, particularly in favour of strengthening the Dublin Regulation, in order to develop a genuine mechanism of solidarity and relocation and to avoid secondary movements. It will be discussed, inter alia, at the next European Council on 19 and 20 October. I now turn to cooperation with the local Brussels authorities. There was also a question from Mr Maingain, who is not present, about the possible establishment of a reception and orientation centre. Since mid-August, regular information exchange meetings have been held with the authorities of the Brussels Region and a number of mayors of the municipalities concerned. We intend to continue this practical dialogue and cooperation with local authorities. With regard to the establishment of a reception and guidance centre, we have taken the necessary steps to inform and will continue to inform transmigrants – that is what this is about – about the possibilities of applying for asylum in Belgium. Only when they apply for asylum can the appropriate response from the authorities be organised. We will continue this cooperation with the local authorities. Mrs Fonck, with regard to health institutions, I can tell you the following. You highlighted the health situation. I'll answer you exactly. We have been serious about this. We have been concerned about the issue of hygiene and health. I have asked the Minister of Health to have her services carry out an accurate analysis of the health situation. The results of this analysis were communicated to the Brussels Health Services on 20 September. According to the Risk Management Group, which brings together representatives of public health and the various federated entities, the conclusions of 19 September were adopted, according to which "there is no public health problem for Belgium". The other measures adopted are common to those for the homeless. The report further indicates that the Brussels-Capital Region has set up a facility for Médecins du Monde to allow medical consultations. Contacts are also taken for the continuity of prevention and care if necessary. We remain very vigilant about this situation. In the meantime, hospital and extra-hospital services are provided whenever necessary. We are also following up on that. On the issue at European and international level, I have heard a lot and I have listened carefully. I would like to make the points and clarify them. Relations between Belgium and Sudan are limited to the strict diplomatic minimum. This also applies to most European countries. Our diplomatic attitude towards the Sudan is exactly the same as that of the European Union and the majority of the Member States of the European Union. No more, no less. In my opinion, those who wanted to undermine Belgium's image on the subject have committed a major mistake. When we look precisely and objectively at the attitude of the European Union, we have done neither more nor less than enshrine ourselves in the practice of the European Union in the field of international relations with a number of countries whose guidelines we absolutely do not share, on the contrary. Without being represented in Khartoum, Belgium has been following the situation since its embassy in Cairo. We support European action to strengthen stability through conflict resolution, protection of human rights and justice. This is also relayed internationally. Belgium, for example, was very active during the universal periodic review of the Sudan held at the Human Rights Council in May 2016. Moreover, relations between the European Union and Sudan, apart from President Bashir, have improved for a number of years. For example, the mandate of an EU Special Envoy for the Horn of Africa was extended to Sudan and South Sudan in 2013. He's just in contact with the local authorities in order to get his job done. This position is shared by the EU Member States. Belgium follows the European trend in this dossier. The European institutions are developing a dialogue with African countries, including Sudan, within the framework of asylum and migration policy. For example, Sudan was represented by its Foreign Minister at a summit in which I participated on behalf of the Belgian government in La Valette in 2015. Twenty-eight European Heads of State and Government met at the highest political level. As Mr Pivin recalled, this summit allowed the establishment of the European Union Emergency Trust Fund for Africa to help promote stability in four regions: the Sahel, Lake Chad, the Horn of Africa and North Africa. It was also intended to contribute to better management of migration by acting more strongly on their root causes. It is well known that they reside in the absence of the rule of law, conflicts, insecurity, extreme poverty and climate change. The Sudan is also one of the largest beneficiaries of the Fund, since its projects are financed to the tune of €40 million, projects which have been approved to support the resilience of refugees and displaced persons as well as host committees in the various regions of Sudan. The Khartoum Process, an initiative for the EU-Corne migration route from Africa, was established in Rome on 28 November 2014. It is a process of regional dialogue aimed at achieving a common understanding of the problems of migration and the solutions to them. This process is led by a steering committee composed of five Member States of the European Union (France, Germany, Italy, Malta, United Kingdom) and five partner countries (Egypt, Eritrea, Ethiopia, South Sudan and Sudan), as well as the European Commission, the European External Action Service of the African Union Commission. This dialogue takes place slowly and does not, as such, involve a bilateral link with the Sudan. This country participates in a collective manner. In its June 2015 Communication on the establishment of a new partnership framework with third countries within the framework of the European Agenda on Migration, the European Commission includes Sudan as one of the partner countries. This renewed partnership with third countries will take the form of tailor-made pacts tailored to the situation and needs of each partner country, depending on whether it is a country of origin, a transit country or a country hosting a large number of displaced persons. In conclusion, Europe agreements and many channels of dialogue are under way with several states of origin, whose practices we strongly condemn. Other Member States have practical co-operations of this kind, organising such missions. They are not exceptional. If we want to break the business model of smugglers, we need strong measures that prevent the setting up of relay stages on the way to Great Britain, mainly via the Libyan road. I sincerely want to defend the Brussels police, who, with dignity and respect, have fulfilled their mission and work to ensure public order and respect for national and international laws, not to mention the maintenance of security in an environment that has been very shaken in recent years – also in our country, as we know very painfully. In conclusion, I confirm my great determination to continue my action at European level so that the Union can make further progress, in particular by developing a more proactive and truly common strategy on the issue of transmigration. In the next few hours, if this has not already been done, you will hear strong European leaders expressing their support for strengthening the European Union in key areas that affect the daily lives of our citizens, such as the migration issue. On behalf of Belgium, I intend to play a central role in these discussions on the development of a firm and humane migration strategy. Finally, I appeal – which I do not hope is in vain – for serenity in political debates. We must avoid damaging the image of our country and banishing it, as some have done – perhaps unintentionally. This question is extremely difficult and humanly very painful, I measure it well. Behind statistics are men, women, children, families, a deep humanity of which we are all well aware. I do not accept any suspicious lawsuits that have been brought against me or the services in charge of this responsibility. I ask calmly that, with objectivity and a rational approach, the debate on migration issues can be continued in this Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic729x.u57	Thank you, Prime Minister. We shall turn to the replies, reminding, after Mr Vermeulen, that they are limited to two minutes per speaker.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic729x.u58	Prime Minister, let's get to the point. You have told us about two technical and practical meetings with representatives, you say, of the Sudanese Ministry of the Interior. I would like to point out that a former representative of the Sudanese Political Police (NISS) identified three persons in the Sudanese Political Police Service, among the delegation that was received by Mr. Franken. I recall that the NISS is included in several official reports by NGOs and the United Nations, where it is mentioned as responsible for abuses in Darfur, to take only one example. That's a first element. Your second argument, Prime Minister, is that the others - France, Norway, Great Britain, Ireland and Italy - are like us. Excuse me, but this is a childish answer. This is not a Prime Minister's response. You're the prime minister, not the first "raccuse-popote." Yes, your government is trading with a dictatorship, and that is not legitimate, Mr. Pivin. It is a shame and it is unworthy of a democracy! Yes, Prime Minister, I am sorry, but it is unworthy of a candidate for the UN Security Council.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic729x.u59	For the sake of the serenity of the debate, I would like to speak on one of the points you mentioned, namely the Sudanese who came to carry out this mission. I have indicated this in my reply, and I confirm it, to take stock of it. A screening of these persons was carried out by the State Security and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. This does not correspond to the information you provided.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic729x.u60	Prime Minister, that the State Security does not have these three Sudanese in its file is the truth.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic729x.u61	Do you imagine that the State Security does not speak to its partners when it makes screenings? What a naivety, Mr. Hellings!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic729x.u62	I think you're naive. You entrust our country's asylum policy to a dictatorship. You're the naïve!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic729x.u63	Mr. Hellings, please remain courteous. You must hear this call to serenity, like everyone else.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic729x.u64	Prime Minister, you mentioned the image of Belgium. During your long reply, you realized the prowess of not saying a word from Mr Franken, our Secretary of State who, on Facebook, shakes the hand for an agreement with Sudan and advertises it everywhere, repeating for a month that if the refugees do not submit a request, they are expelled. You have outlined it today, without mentioning it, by saying that we must respect Article 3 of the European Convention on Human Rights. If there's one who played with the fire, who causes it all the time... If there is one person who speaks of "cleaning up" there in Brussels, that is Theo Francken, but today we hear the Prime Minister accuse the opposition of damaging the image of Belgium abroad. Prime Minister, a little serious, please! It's up to you to reframe. It's Mr. Franken who says he can "clean up" all this. It is Mr Franken who makes a great announcement of these agreements. You say that this kind of agreement exists in Europe. I do not know any other European political leader who proudly claims that he is collaborating with dictatorships like the one in Sudan. This is a political communication that is the total responsibility of the government and you do not say a word about it. I come to another very important point. You have just said that the delegation present here today has been chosen by the Belgian authorities. In other words, we've screened and you've given these people permission to come. These people are therefore your political responsibility. You surprise me when you say that the State Security Service does not have information about all Sudanese security officers! I believe that the Belgian State Security Agency does not have a file of all the security services in the world that allows us to know whether or not these people are working for the security services in their country. It's not naivety. You know, Prime Minister, that the State Security cannot answer this question! Finally, you say that only one person submitted an application, implying that there is no real danger in Sudan. You really believe that those concerned can really express themselves about the situation on the ground while working with the Sudanese regime. Prime Minister, we need to be a little serious. At the level of Maximilian Park, the information that is given – it is very clearly indicated on the leaflets in Arabic that are distributed – aims to bring people home. Information is not given to them to apply, but to tell them how to return home, i.e. either through a forced return or in a "gentillary" way. Is that true information, Prime Minister? No. The only goal is to scare. You say that the Dublin Agreement is the solution. In my opinion, that is not true; it is rather the problem. Indeed, these people think that they will at least be expelled to Italy. However, your own Secretary of State said that the reception conditions in Italy were completely unworthy. So you have to know! They are either unworthy and not expelled under the above-mentioned agreement, or they are worthy. I will conclude, Prime Minister, by saying that the well-known democratic European Union that you boast outsources migration policy with Turkey, Sudan...
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic729x.u65	Mr Hedebouw, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic729x.u66	That's unworthy! Our country must be able to guarantee a welcoming policy in a warm manner, as you say, and not by outsourcing and expelling to dictatorships.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic729x.u67	Prime Minister, you just spoke about this information campaign. I know you think it's important for people to be informed. We agree. But I also know, and we have also been able to observe this by the statements in the press, that DVZ said at some point to stop giving information, including in the Maximilian Park, because it makes no sense. That's what DVZ literally explained. So I know that people have stopped doing that. I would ask you to continue to ensure that people are informed wherever they are, whether they are on the streets or in a closed centre. Secondly, it is true, there is a limited group of people applying for asylum and there are those who do not want to apply for asylum because they want to travel to the United Kingdom, but there is also a third category of people, namely those who want to apply for asylum but cannot because they know that Dublin will be applied because they are already registered in Italy. That is why I would like to propose the following. Belgium is not obliged to apply Dublin. If one creates an opening and convinces people to submit their applications, people will be convinced to apply for asylum. Especially for Eritreans, the degree of recognition is very high. This can be agreed at European level. This can mean, for example, a reduction in the number of people we have to relocate from Italy. Thirdly, you said that we respect international law. We have to. That's right. However, I also ask that we really ensure that DVZ motivates the case on a case-by-case basis and ensures that there is no risk of people being tortured. I fear that this is ultimately wishful thinking, that in the end very few, perhaps some, but very few people can be sent back to a country like Sudan, because there are great risks of human rights violations there. I am glad that you say that in some cases there are other embassies working, that you are indeed following the suggestion I made, that people should not be sent back to Sudan but to another country in the region. We really need to walk that slope. We cannot say that everyone can just stay here. There must be cooperation with other countries. Some people may have to go back to a safe country in the region. Finally, it is true that I have also said that in the past there has been cooperation with embassies. Nor is it the first time an identification mission has been launched. However, when it comes to cooperation with such regimes on such delicate matters, it is important that the government takes a decision on them.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic729x.u68	This must be decided in the government and must not be left blue-blue. In this way work is done in both directions and everything does not have to end up on the shoulders of one minister or one secretary of state. However, I believe that such decisions should be borne by the entire government. I understand that this decision was not taken at the Council of Ministers. Perhaps the procedure should be adjusted so that such decisions can be discussed at the Council of Ministers in the future?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic729x.u69	Prime Minister, I share with you the fact that we are experiencing a difficult situation and a migration crisis that we have not encountered, either in Europe or in Belgium for a long time. That is why it must be treated with dignity and responsibility. But this dignity, this responsibility, your Secretary of State has not had them for a long time. We must deal with this migration crisis without angelism – that's not my point – without demonisation either and with respect for rights. In this respect, I agree with the colleagues who stressed it. I do not think that there will be a Calais in Belgium, among other things because Philippe Close today took the courageous decision to requisition a building to make up for the government. Indeed, if dignity is to allow gall and tuberculosis to spread to human beings as it is, without government reaction, we do not have the same definition. Like my colleague Mr Hellings, Prime Minister, I will tell you that you have given us statistics and that you have been very technical. You spoke with a lot of detachment. You tell us: "Circulate. There's nothing to do with it. It's done elsewhere like that." No, Prime Minister, they're people. They are agents of a country who have blood on their hands because they have killed, tortured and because they are going to kill and torture again. These are the people you opened the door to identify people in despair. That, Prime Minister, is what we are talking about today, not figures or statistics. Women, men or their families are at risk. Prime Minister, I hear your call for calm because, indeed, the situation is difficult. I hope that this appeal will be heard because it is not the opposition, the NGOs, the humanitarian associations and even less the volunteers, the whole civil society that today is turning back the sleeves, working and constantly being vilipted by sometimes a small xenophobic film, sometimes a small tweet, sometimes a small cartoon, by your Secretary of State, who does not hear it. They are not the ones who call not for serenity, but for your Secretary of State. As soon as the government wants to clean up, Prime Minister, I invite you to clean up your government!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic729x.u70	Mr Prime Minister, first of all, something about serenity. We of the sp.a fully support your call, but may I ask that you first wipe your own door? The man who communicates so populist, so aggressive, so provocative about deep human problems as the refugee, is a member of your government. He's a populace, and the government will reap what it sows. So when sowing, please be much more careful with the communication of the Secretary of State. Secondly, Sudan belongs to the League of North Korea and Syria as regards human rights violations. On the Human Rights Risks Index, Sudan is at the level of those two countries. I'm really worried because you didn't answer my question. If the government has not given the Secretary of State permission to start that identification process, has he at least consulted you or the Secretary of State? You didn't answer that. If this has not been the case, this means that this operation has been deployed solo in super-sensitive areas by your Secretary of State. I find it unworthy of a government to allow a Secretary of State to leave alone in such sensitive areas. Thirdly, I would like to thank you for your answers to my other questions, but I am left with one major problem. I still don't see exactly what the role, the place, the impact of those five secret agents of Sudan is. Anyone who knows the secret services of Sudan knows that they are mercilessly hunting for political opposition people. I do not yet know how much their impact is, but for my group this is about it. I hope for the members of the government that they also know that this is a very sensitive step. After all, Prime Minister, there are reports from Amnesty International that have already documented what terrible things are happening to people who are being sent back to Sudan. I come to my final point. Prime Minister, I am, with you, concerned about Belgium's image of human rights. I'm not alone with that. I heard Hervé Hasquin. I heard Karel De Gucht. Dit is due geen pure political politician. This is not a pure opposition. What picture do we bring out about the human problem of refugees and about whether or not to apply identification processes to these people? I note that this government has chosen to cooperate with a dictator. Our group would have chosen respect for human rights. I believe that this is also the position of Hervé Hasquin and Karel De Gucht.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic729x.u71	Prime Minister, thank you for your answers. I find that in these debates we forget far too much about the situation of these men, women and children who have often fled horror. You say they did not apply for asylum in Belgium. That's right. But not to apply for asylum in Belgium does not mean, and you know very well, an expulsion permit. There are also other countries to which there are no expulsions, given the significant risks, while there is no application for asylum in Belgium. You tell us that Europe agreements provide for possible collaborations with Sudan, including the Valletta Convention. I mentioned it earlier. It's planned. But at the same time, it's not a white-sing at all, Prime Minister. On the contrary. The Convention explicitly provides that bilateral agreements, from State to State, in this case from Belgium to the Sudan, must be concluded and that very clear guarantees must be provided in relation to the persons who are to be expelled or in relation to the persons who are to be identified and whose family is now in the Sudan. Once the identification is made, their family is obviously at the mercy of the regime. My criticism is that you have reached an agreement with Sudan as if it were any country, without taking into account the gravity of this dreadful regime. Never before had an identification agreement been concluded with such a worrying State as the Sudan. For us, such an agreement is inconceivable without specific guarantees. I cannot even imagine how you, a democrat, could have engaged Belgium without even deliberating the government giving, within a clear framework, the specific guarantees regarding what is Sudan, namely a regime of dictatorship. I shall conclude, if I may, with a slightly different point, but which seems to me to be terribly important. You have a Secretary of State who manages this extremely sensitive matter, Prime Minister. But this Secretary of State likes successive provocations. There's been Doctors Without Borders. There was his presentation as a cleaner. He likes provocations in the verb, in the image, on Twitter and through all possible and imaginable channels. He's getting staged, like Trump. At the United Nations in New York, you rightly denounced Trump's style. But here, you support him in your own government.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic729x.u72	Prime Minister, I thank you for the clarifications you gave us by keeping the problem in context and by reminding us that it is the image of our country vis-à-vis the rest of the world. You were right to say that we must continue the dialogue with states or regimes whose values we do not share - you have repeated it again in New York. It is very fair and you have made it clear that breaking diplomatic relations has never improved or advanced anything. That is the right message to remember. We are and remain a welcoming land. We have demonstrated this through our asylum policy. Let us also recall what was done with regard to pre-reception at the height of the crisis in 2015. We did exceptional things in 2015. We are a host country, but we are also a rule of law. In a rule of law, we must be able to identify illegal residents and use all legal means to do so without the risk of being subjected to criticism. It is important for me that procedural guarantees are respected and that people coming from abroad and in an illegal situation are treated as a Belgian citizen would be. I have all the assurances and guarantees on this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic729x.u73	Mr President, Prime Minister, thank you for your comprehensive and clear answer. In fact, throughout the discussion, I find that none of the opposition is in principle opposed to a good return policy, at least not to the principle of return. Everyone agrees that those who are illegally resident on our territory do so by their own choice, have their own responsibility and thus automatically choose the risk of being returned. So what exactly is the criticism? The criticism is that the identification team helps the Aliens Department to identify the arrested illegals in the Maximilian Park and at the North Station, in order to establish that they are effective persons of Sudanese origin. There's no alternative. I ask the opposition what the alternative is in the context of a good return policy. If people want to return to the illegality they choose, which is the end of a good migration policy. I hear that no one contradicts them, then they are obliged to identify them first. That is the only way our government has to give them a laissez pass, to force them to return. However, there is an alternative to forced return. That alternative is in the hands of the illegals themselves. The Prime Minister stressed it, the Secretary of State stressed it, and I would also like to emphasise it, there is an alternative, in particular asylum applications. Mrs Fernandez, do not paint it as if we were leaving asylum seekers, candidate refugees to their fate. You deliberately create confusion by not distinguishing between illegals and candidate refugees. The illegals can change their status to the status of candidate refugees and then they will be protected by our authorities. So there is an alternative to forced return. Those concerned must not go back, they can apply for asylum here and then they will be protected.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic729x.u74	Mr President, Prime Minister, we have followed with concern the US President's speech at the UN rostrum this week. The words spoken in the rostrum of this organization, which was set up after the Second World War in an attempt to guarantee peace in the world, are far from anodizing. He spoke of the total destruction of North Korea, threatened by Iran, by taxing it as a murderous state, of new military actions against Venezuela, after having already threatened that country with intervention, and of new sanctions against Cuba, which he classified in the rogue states. Fifteen years ago, in the same rostrum, President George W. Bush had the same rhetoric against the "Axe of Evil" and the rogue states. Today we know very well where this has led. This has led to the criminal war against Iraq, which has killed more than a million people and caused chaos throughout the region, with terrible consequences that we are still suffering today. You responded by saying that you welcome this speech without enthusiasm, saying that Trump had done Trump and that "you didn't think that an approach is going to war will contribute to more peace in the world". We do believe that Trump today does not contribute to peace in the world, but on the contrary seriously threatens it. It is a very serious threat that binds us directly, particularly through Article 5 of the NATO Treaty if there is to be a declaration of mutual war between the United States and another country. Mr Prime Minister, do you not think that Belgium should condemn this speech and Mr Trump's policy more clearly? Are you ready for concrete measures at Belgian level not to be linked to its international and military policy? For example, freeze Belgian participation in coalitions with the United States, open discussion on our participation in NATO? I remind you that if a country were to attack the United States as a result of a declaration of war, we would be bound by Article 5.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic729x.u75	Mr President, I am very embarrassed because, for once – it is very rare – I share Comrade Hedebouw's point of view. It's too bad the cameras are gone. This is a special moment in our assembly! More seriously, following Donald Trump's message to the United Nations, we have been a number of Heads of State and Government to mark our dispute over the approach to international and multilateral cooperation. What struck me was that Donald Trump marked his reasoning – it's not a surprise – on the opposition between sovereignty on the one hand, and multilateral on the other. According to him, international cooperation would be secondary. I do not share his conviction that the best way to defend the interests of our people is to make sovereign decisions in our respective countries. I don't agree. For a number of fundamental issues - climate change, terrorism, global economic and commercial development - we need more multilateralism and more international cooperation. This was indeed the thread of the message that I expressed to the United Nations, with some operational examples. To draw up a report - I cannot help but - with another question, I would point out that it is perfectly consistent with my previous answer. Indeed, breaking diplomatically is a cowardly abandonment of those who are fighting in their country for more democracy, more freedoms and more rights. That is why I do not accept the reasoning that we should compare our government's approach to Trump's. That's exactly the opposite! I gave the example of North Korea and Iran. For the latter, the international community has, in part, supported, despite everything, a dialogue with a view to reaching a nuclear agreement with a regime that I am fighting and which I strongly condemn. The objective was to identify some common points of view and to see how to manage our differences. Another is North Korea, because there has not been this channel of dialogue, this space for discussion. The result is a de-escalation in our relations with Iran, contrary to Donald Trump's message. On the other hand, in the North Korean case, we are facing an extremely worrying verbal escalation. I am totally wrong about an approach that, like Donald Trump, would aim to consider a complete break and a will to destroy - it is the words that have been used - as the best approach. I don't think that's the case. This is the worst attitude if we aspire to more peace, stability and security. Multilateralism is an endlessly unfinished work, with frustrations, failures, difficulties and status quos, but it also sometimes brings results. I am thinking of the Paris Agreement on Climate Change, the Iran nuclear agreements, the SDGs. All these conventions have advanced several common ambitions for the future of security and stability in the world.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic729x.u76	Prime Minister, thank you for your answer. We agree with the seriousness of the situation. Climbing on the Korean peninsula is becoming extremely dangerous. We are no longer only in the verbal register. The world order is in jeopardy. Behind North Korea, there is obviously tension with the United States and China. It is time, Prime Minister, for our country to take tangible action. When you talk about diplomatic objectives, we remain bound by many agreements with the United States. It is important to take a clear stand against Mr Trump, and not only in annual speeches at the United Nations. So many military treaties bind us to the United States that, if they decided to pursue their logic goes into war, they would lead us into their escalation. That is why we must give a strong signal and take clear steps to interrupt this almost fusional relationship with this country, especially since Mr Trump is leading it and is actually threatening world peace. I hope that in the coming weeks and months we will hear a very clear signal from Belgium that we will no longer participate in these coalitions under the leadership of the United States.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic729x.u77	Prime Minister, there seems to be a change cup going around between your government and Ghent University about the most amateur decision-making. One time it ends up with you, then another at Ghent University. Today there is good news from Ghent University, there is white smoke coming out of the chimney, because after nine ballots a rector has been elected. Perhaps the time is also right to give clear wine after ten, twelve to fifteen loose ends and incidents, on a few things from your Summer Agreement. I will not just confine myself to a question on the security tax, but I will also ask you my question on pensions. I see no reason why you should answer the first question and not the second. It concerns two issues in the Summer Agreement on which there is still a great deal of confusion within the majority, and this confusion is at the expense of, alternately, pensioners, employees, investors and entrepreneurs. Every single one of them is about the issue of fertilizers that deserve more serious than the scenes of the past few weeks. First, I'll talk about pensions. In that connection, I questioned your party colleague, the trade minister. After a meeting of more than two and a half hours, it turned out to be completely unclear where the decided pension savings should come from. There is a pension measure of 20 million euros and the Minister has provided insight into 53 million euros in pension savings for 2018, but the Summer Agreement still includes a total of 200 million euros in pensions. Since the Minister of Trade has not answered that question, I repeat this question to you. What does the 200 million euros mean? Secondly, the securities tax is called a major trophy on fiscal justice. In our opinion, it is too little and there are potentially many escape routes and bypass mechanisms. Even then, the Minister of Finance says that he does not really want to implement this measure. If Johan Van Overtveldt were equally eager to carry out fiscal justice as Theo Francken in returning war refugees, the world would look different. Last weekend Johan Van Overtveldt stated that that tax is attackable and illogical, he says that that tax is incorrect. That's a very strange way of working. You say, however, that it is decided, and we will do so. I wonder why the Minister of Finance thinks he can afford that. How can such an important measure still be unclear, politically and in terms of content? Prime Minister, the question also arises as to whether it is a good idea for Johan Van Overtveldt to continue to run that file. The chances of success with someone who doesn't really want it to succeed are, of course, decreasing. To conclude, one should not be a great genius. Finally, in the notifications of the Summer Agreement, which I got after your blitz conference in the Chamber, I had to swear for a moment because you did not share much information and read that there are agreements on the scenario in which there would be more revenue from the securities tax. If more than the agreed amount were to be collected, the government agreed that the money would be used to extend the dividend exemption. That's written in black and white in the notes of the Summer chord. My question, especially after last weekend's statements, is therefore the next one. What happens if the agreed return is not reached? I've heard Didier Reynders, among other things, explain last weekend that if it doesn't work out, then so be it. He suggested that capital would be taxed too much. My question therefore arises technically and politically, after reading the notifications of the Summer Agreement and a fortiori after what happened last weekend. I am very curious to hear your answer, in which you can be very brief. You can answer that I am right and that, given the way in which the Minister of Finance is acting, he will no longer be running the file. If that is not the answer, then I am very curious to hear your more concrete and technical answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic729x.u78	Mr Calvo, the Summer Accords will be carried out very loyally. As stated, the legislative texts will come to the Council of Ministers. The opinion of the Council of State will then be requested, followed by interesting debates in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic729x.u79	Mr President, my suspicion is therefore confirmed. If it is to organise a good news show, we may all play along, but when difficult questions are asked, you flee and avoid the questions. I note that you are not answering any questions about the EUR 200 million in pension measures. In this way, you yourself control the chaos and uncertainty. Moreover, you do not answer my legitimate and technical questions about the securities tax. This is how you give the saboteurs in your own government the wind in the sails. A clear substantive and political answer would have been a much stronger message than this meaningless answer. It only motivates me more for the State of the Union. That debate will certainly not end before those questions are answered.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic729x.u80	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Van Hoof's 20730 will be converted into a written question. This has exhausted our agenda.
