ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-06-54-commissie-ic777x.u1	Questions Nos 22039, 22040, 22050, 22144, 22145, 22146 and 22147 by Mrs Ben Hamou are converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-06-54-commissie-ic777x.u2	Minister, I heard from people in the Railway Police that there is an optimization going on. The core task of the Railway Police would then be to ensure safety on the tracks, on the trains and on the platforms. Basic police care in the stations would become a task of the local police. This would leave only five main posts, in Brussels, Antwerp, Ghent, Liège and Charleroi. The remaining posts would then become satellite posts, which will mainly have a supporting role. That would be the case for Bruges, Leuven and Hasselt. It's a good thing you're taking the railroad police back to her core business. I understand that you want to address the migration problems. On the other hand, the railway policemen now act in and around the stations and, for example, in Bruges, they do wonderful work. They are also absolutely necessary. At the same time, some places are no longer filled out today, because there is already anticipating a possible satellite station in Bruges. Is it true, Minister, that the railway police, especially in Bruges, are being phased out and that there would only be a satellite station? That would mean no more interference in the station. What data do you base yourself on to turn the Railway Police in Bruges into a satellite station and not retain it as a main station? Only the main posts would receive more staff. Is that right? How would the optimization work out? Will, for example, protocol agreements be made with all the local police areas of West and East Flanders to ensure assistance? What impact will the optimisation have on the agents currently operating in future satellite stations?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-06-54-commissie-ic777x.u3	Mr President, Minister, in the previous legislature we were already optimising the federal police. As an extension of this, it is logical that we should look at how everything can be as efficient and as quality as possible. In the context of the integrated police, the Railway Police also has a supporting role for local areas. At the moment, the Railway Police are present in ten major stations, but I understand that this would be limited in the future. The focus should be on providing the most efficient service. I understand the concern of certain zones which have a station on their territory. Mr Demon gave an example of this. I also understand the concerns of certain members of the railway police, although I also hear other sounds on the ground. However, I believe that we have a greater interest in ensuring that intervention can be provided as soon as possible where necessary. I believe that, according to a particular letter or protocol, local police should be responsible for the safety of the stations. That is why my questions are mainly about information about efficiency. Do you have an overview of the number of interventions in the various stations during the past year? What is the capacity per station? Are there any deficits? What criteria will be used to determine which stations will be retained as a base of operation? How will coordination of interventions be steered? What will the maximum permitted driving time be?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-06-54-commissie-ic777x.u4	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in the last year's railway police, the reflection has taken place on how to carry out its specialized police mission in the future. We must never forget that the railway police are a specialized unit which can guarantee a more efficient working framework. The Railway Police are currently operating from 11 shifts. You should know that each of these services must now be responsible for organising calls, actions and event management, planning, administrative handling, etc. So that's what happens in each of those 11 places. It is not only my conviction but also that of the police leadership that this can be rationalised by working with a smaller deconcentration and a larger pool of operational staff. In this way, capacity can be used more efficiently and flexibly for targeted actions and for the implementation of its core tasks. Its priority areas are tracks, trains and platforms. That's the job of the railroad police. In concrete terms, therefore, it has been decided to move towards a central management and five devolved main posts, namely Brussels, Antwerp, Ghent, Liège and Charleroi. The other six posts where the SPC staff have so far been housed will still be used as a starting point for administration or targeted actions. Several criteria have been taken into account for the selection of these five main posts, such as the number of passengers, the lines and the main railway nodes, the stations and international connections, the black points on the railway lines and the general safety indicators on rail traffic. In addition, we can ensure the optimum coverage of our services throughout the Belgian rail network through the choice of these five main posts. Mr Demon, on the basis of these objective criteria, the region of East and West Flanders was chosen for Ghent. Your fear that the Railway Police will be removed from Bruges is unfounded. The Railway Police are still present. Only in the future it will be steered differently. Emergency and aid will remain guaranteed throughout the territory, but will be managed from one of the five main posts. The Emergency Service is and will continue to be managed by the provincial SICAD service providers and intervention times will be kept as low as possible by adequate internal service planning. The same quality will be provided and the offer of this specialised police service will not be reduced either. On the contrary, it is precisely the intention that the Railway Police should be more proactively visible in its priority area in order to increase operational impact. The focus of the internal organisation's adjustment in order to improve external services is just as much on focusing and proactive presence on railway sites, targeted actions on known nuisances and targeted deployment on priority national and international phenomena. Mr President, I see that Mr Kir is now present. He has not been able to ask his questions, but with your approval and in the spirit of cooperation in which we work in this committee, I will answer his questions. It also contains part of the answer to Mr De Groote. Mr Kir, as I have just said, since you have just arrived, I will answer your questions. The new concept will be implemented. In this regard, the concerns and interests of staff members will be taken into account. Negotiations are currently under way on transitional measures and possible extinction scenarios. SSC management will then issue the appropriate directives. Even today, the unions were contacted because some points were raised. I said that for those who are currently active in one of the satellite stations, the service begins when they report to the post in the morning. Mr Demon, people living near Bruges, for example, go to the station of Bruges. They can put on their uniform and protective equipment and start their service there, even if they have to go to Ghent by train at that time. In the meantime, they can do their job on the train and on the platforms. I have clarified that today, and that is why the trade unions have withdrawn their strike commitment. In order to implement the concept, we will also recruit additional staff. We have already launched this initiative on Friday, December 1. Indeed, 72 places were published in the 2017/05 mobility cycle. Recruitment will already be carried out to fill the positions for five main posts. These reinforcements are necessary, given that there are currently different deficits within the current 11 services. SPC Brussels has the highest number of planned staff (283) and has an occupation of 82%. Then there is the Antwerp SPC with an occupation of only 62% of the 39 planned staff. In the series of SPC services in the provinces with a planned occupation of 29 staff, West Flanders reaches 72%, Mons at 83%, East Flanders at 90%, and Charleroi. The 29 planned staff members are fully staffed in Namur and Liège. Finally, the Flemish Brabant has an occupation of only 56% of the 27 staff members. In addition, after SSC services in the provinces with 14 staff members, Limburg reached 86% and Luxembourg at 71%. In addition, infrastructure adaptations will also need to be considered. Of course, we will meet around the table with the local police areas to review the current protocols or establish new ones. The same initiative will be undertaken with external partners, such as SNCB.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-06-54-commissie-ic777x.u5	Minister, there are some good things to note, such as your explanation of the people who work there now. That's news to me, that wasn't known to me, but that's definitely good. We need to think for a moment about how we are going to deal with things if they are to continue. We know the problem of transmigration in Zeebrugge, where people try to get as close as possible by train. Wouldn't it be better to think about turning West Flanders into a main post? After all, one must go to Poperinge. If there is an accident on the tracks, I am thinking, for example, of a suicide, and one has to go from Ghent to Poperinge, then one must go a long way.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-06-54-commissie-ic777x.u6	Mr. Demon, these people are on track. They're not in Ghent waiting for a call. That's the thing. We will have continuous operational shifts on the track, well distributed across the territory, so that people do not have to waste their time on administration. That administration is centralised and they can be operationally on track. They're on the trains.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-06-54-commissie-ic777x.u7	That's true. I am in favour of you centralising that administration and of no one being in the desks. I was just passing there today when I left, and I've established that there's no one in that desk. There were some in the station; they were working on those girls' gangs. That is something specific for West Flanders: they are not boys gangs with us, but girls gangs. That'll add up, on top of Terro 3. We have to go to a core business, which is very important, but we are also all behind the proximity police. You're right, they must be on the trail. We may be lucky to have them present in West Flanders at that time. But there is also no guarantee, and there used to be, that the Railway Police will be present in West Flanders. That's why I'd just like to ask you to take another look at it. I think it is a good attitude that the people who work there can start there as well. If I understand correctly, there is an occupation of 56 % today. We must be able to do that.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-06-54-commissie-ic777x.u8	Thank you, Minister, for your answer, which shows that efficiency is central. The debate is going in the wrong direction if we continue to distinguish between a main post and a satellite. That distinction will not bring us much further. I agree that there should be a police force, which is what we have always strived for. In another discussion we wanted "more blue on the street." That is what you are doing now, albeit in the area of rail. However, a train does not stop in West Flanders. A train drives from Bruges to Ghent at twenty minutes already. The aim must therefore be to protect as many people as possible in the best possible way. That doesn't just happen in a desk. After all, several members of the Railway Police have addressed me themselves and have reminded me that they have something better to do than simply note in a desk that a portfolio has been stolen, for example. They must be responsible for safety. In this respect, I have already asked you a question about the mixed patrols on trains, which are even cross-border with abroad. So we need to put more people on the track. The local police know she has to defend security around the stations. We need to sit around the table on that. There are certainly solutions possible. Your action is in the direction of efficiency, which I can only endorse.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-06-54-commissie-ic777x.u9	Minister, thank you for your answers. Since my questions were simple and you answered them in part, I will not go back to them. I would just like to touch on some aspects of this issue again. First of all, the grunt grows among the unions. I didn't hear you talk about social dialogue. However, I would have liked to know whether the reform you are defending has been discussed with the trade unions and also the conclusions of your meetings with them. Still today, I read in the press: "The grunt grows up in the railroad police." We note that a common union front has been formed and challenges certain aspects of your reform. Secondly, I regret the shortage of staff in the railway police. In this committee, we have already had the opportunity, on many occasions, to discuss this matter with you. In terms of recruitment, we asked you to do everything possible to complete the framework. Today, you are presenting a reform that clearly distinguishes the work that will be carried out in the stations and the missions that will be carried out on board the trains. That's why I wanted to know if you had discussed it with the Minister of Mobility. If so, what conclusions have your discussions reached? In addition, have you engaged in a dialogue with local police? I know that, in Mrs Milquet's time, assistance had been provided to the Brussels police areas. As mayor, I would like to thank the Federal for this very valuable contribution – especially in trains, buses and trams. We recall that a serious incident in Brussels had attracted the attention of public opinion and all the authorities in the country. Having said that, I would also like to hear from you about your consultation with the local police and the mayors in order to know whether, as part of your reform, you now want a federal railway police operating outside the railway stations, while the local police would act inside. I imagine there has been a dialogue on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-06-54-commissie-ic777x.u10	Mr Kir, I think I have indicated at the moment that we have consulted the SNCB and the local police. In addition, we will soon review the protocol concluded with it. As I said, the big stations will not be affected. Indeed, the railway police will carry out their duties there as before. Its presence will even be strengthened. At other stations, in most cases, the local police were already carrying out the tasks assigned to them. In particular, in the event of theft of a wallet, the local police were involved in the majority of cases, not in the railway police. Indeed, as Mr Degroote has said, the railway police must work on the trains, on the poles. Theft of a wallet in a mall or station remains, in fact, the same. This is not a task assigned to a specialized unit, but rather a task assigned to the local police. However, as I said, consultation with local police areas has begun to adapt the existing protocols.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-06-54-commissie-ic777x.u11	What about the unions?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-06-54-commissie-ic777x.u12	We're negotiating. As you know, they filed a notice of strike. I therefore contacted them this morning by informing them that their service can begin as soon as they arrive at the stations or satellite stations. I am not saying that my intervention has solved everything, but it has had the merit of calming the tensions. So I think I can say that the strike will not take place because it was their main claim.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-06-54-commissie-ic777x.u13	Mr President, Minister, at the beginning of 2018, a new local security survey will be conducted by the General Directorate for Security and Prevention and the Federal Police. The results are expected at the end of 2018 and can therefore also be included in the policy plans for the years 2019-2024, among others. So this is a good thing. Several municipalities and zones were contacted. Now it is true that my services and my cabinet were not notified until 24 November. That is hardly a week before the deadline mentioned in the letter for this project. Asking our services taught me that there was no prior notification. I therefore assume that other municipalities were informed too late. This is, of course, very unfortunate. I have the following questions for you. How come the municipalities and the ships or mayors responsible were informed so late? Are there any reasons for that? Will the municipalities or zones, taking into account the above facts, be given an additional reflection period after the deadline of 1 December, so that more municipalities and/or zones can participate? How many municipalities or zones are already registered? Which municipalities are already registered? Finally, as a responsible minister, do you urge the services to respond better to deadlines and communication in the future?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-06-54-commissie-ic777x.u14	Mr Top, first of all I would like to outline the context of the Safety Monitor. The Safety Monitor is a population survey on different safety issues. Through this channel, public opinion is questioned about the feeling of insecurity, neighbourhood problems, prevention, victimisation and the quality of police action. The information collected contains valuable indicators for the development of security policy. The file completed by my administration arrived at my office in mid-November, where we first studied it. I then gave instructions to my administration to launch the Security Monitor effectively. The deadline is indeed too short. That wasn't supposed to happen at first. Nevertheless, over the past year, several announcements have been made to the police zones. In addition, it should be borne in mind that it takes time before the Safety Monitor delivers results. Running the samples takes one to two months, and sending and receiving the answers takes more than five months. The introduction of the results takes one to two months, and the results merge and process again takes almost six months. However, I would like the results to be used by the municipalities for their next policy paper on local security. They should get started on that. You know that we have brought the local security notes in line with the municipal elections; so, at the beginning of 2019, the municipalities must have the results so that they can include them in their new security plan. In this respect, and with this objective in mind, I can confirm that the deadline will be extended by one week or two weeks, i.e. that tenders will be possible until 14 December. According to the last census on 29 November, 71 municipalities were registered for the Safety Monitor. There are still 150 police areas to be added. I will ask my administration to have the list of registered municipalities distributed through the website besafe and the Federal Police site once the registrations have been completed. The first communication on the project took place in January 2017. The first channels of dissemination were targeted at the police areas, but also offered the municipalities the opportunity to join the initiative. The co-operation between the federal police and the General Directorate for Security and Prevention on the Security Monitor will be maintained and in the future all different dissemination channels will be used from the first announcement. It goes without saying that such a tool should be maintained. It seems to me to be an essential tool to support the various levels of security in the development of a fact-based comprehensive security policy, since this survey reveals, in particular, the black figure of crime, which we do not have in our police databases. It is also a useful tool for evaluating security policy. That's why I've asked my administration and the federal police to maintain the security monitor.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-06-54-commissie-ic777x.u15	Minister, I am still unclear about the exact moment when the zones were notified. You are talking about communication in the course of 2017. Questioning the area also teaches me that no official commitments were asked to take part in these surveys. So doubt was sown there and uncertainty created. Secondly, I am pleased that the deadline for registration has been extended to 14 December. Let us hope that a number of municipalities still register. Something's not so clear to me. You said that 71 municipalities have already responded positively, including mine, and 150 police areas are added. Does this mean that those 150 police zones have already given their consent? That's 150 out of 187. That brings me to the next point raised in the letter itself. The more municipalities and police areas register on them, the better we get, and the more benchmarking we can do between the different zones and municipalities, as is also stated in the letter. I would therefore like to urge the administration to make good and timely communication at least in the future, so that we can conduct appropriate surveys throughout the country and get proper figures in order to make a good comparison.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-06-54-commissie-ic777x.u16	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Pas 22202 has been postponed. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Demon's 22223 was converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-06-54-commissie-ic777x.u17	Mr. Chair, Mr.Minister, on November 6, the art crime officer in the Federal Judicial Police was heard by our excellent colleagues in the Senate, who met in the Community Jurisdictions Committee. His intervention shows that the rate of elucidation of this category of offences rose from 6 or 7 % in 2015 to 0 % - which is not much! For the past two years, however, the "Art and Antiquities" section has grown from four to one agent. I've already asked you about this problematic situation. There have been regular cases of seized works of art from Syria, Iraq or Libya. It is therefore possible, if not probable, that the revenues of these flights have contributed to the financing of terrorist movements. It was an issue raised by the Committee of Inquiry into Terrorism in this Parliament. Last July, our country was pointed out by UNESCO as "the weak link in the policy against illicit trafficking in cultural property". It was learned at the same time that Interpol and Belgium's databases on stolen works of art were no longer fed by our services. This raises the concern of our colleagues abroad. Minister, can you tell me why the staff of the Art and Antiquities section of the Federal Judicial Police was divided by four? How do you analyze this zero elucidation rate? What answers, above all, do you intend to bring to this harmful situation? Will the section be strengthened and, if so, within what time frame? Do you confirm that the databases have actually stopped being fed? Why? How soon will they be back? You will have understood, Minister, that I was calling for the strengthening of this unit for reasons of combating financial crime and the financing of terrorism.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-06-54-commissie-ic777x.u18	Minister, according to the European Commission, the annual amount of traffic in works of art is estimated at between $3 billion and $6 billion, around the figures for arms trafficking or drugs. However, in 2016, you decided to deconcentrate the "Arts and Antiquities" cell of the Federal Police. I have already had the opportunity to ask questions about this. Under pressure and pressure from the European authorities and Interpol, however, a point of contact would have been kept. For the rest, it would be the boroughs that are in charge of the regular work, i.e. the various judicial and federal police services in the boroughs. However, this seems insufficient in the eyes of field police officers because they are not specialized in this field and the indispensable expertise accumulated by the previous cell is being lost. Minister, do you confirm this information? What is the status of this deconcentration of the said cell? How many police officers are dedicated exclusively to this type of case in judicial districts to date? How does the monitoring of this traffic at the level of Belgium take place in practice? Thank you in advance for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-06-54-commissie-ic777x.u19	Ladies and gentlemen, I do not have the information on which the European Commission's estimate you are quoting is based. The optimisation law of 26 March 2014 - hence of the previous government - is based on three main principles: 1. more operational capacity at deconcentrated levels; 2. a better service, mainly to the local police; 3. alignment with the new judicial organization. The emphasis placed on deconcentrated investigation units means, on the one hand, that choices must be made and, on the other hand, that central services must reorient themselves. The priorities of the central branches of the DGJ are linked to the NSP – the National Security Plan. This is the priority task of the DJSOC. This means that difficult choices must be made, for which account must be taken of the capacity of the police in general and the capacity available for programme work in particular. Theft of works of art has not been taken up as a priority on the basis of as objective a scientific study as possible (National Police Security Image). When a phenomenon is not a priority, it does not mean that there is no investigation in the competent police service. Investigations under the jurisdiction of the federal police must be carried out by the deconcentrated services. If it is a specialized subject, the role of a central management is to maintain at least the expertise, to disseminate it to the units concerned, to provide training and possibly to serve as an international point of contact. A phenomenon as small as the theft of works of art can be handled by a single person. Prior to deconcentration, there were two full-time employees in the cell. One of them has retired and the second is now in charge of the single point of contact. As a result, there was no deconcentration of specialized personnel within the borough units. On the other hand, recruitments were made for vacant posts in the deconcentrated units. For a subject as specialized as works of art, the rate of elucidation is generally quite low, which results in large percentage changes if surveys do not succeed. Since the phenomenon is no longer monitored because it is not a priority, it may be that facts are elucidated by local police but remain unknown to the central service. The evaluation of optimisation is planned for the second half of 2018 (Article 45 of the Optimisation Law). There are no plans to strengthen the section prior to this evaluation. The specialized database has experienced problems that have been resolved by the federal police computer service. The "Artists" database has been functioning since November 2017. The "Art" phenomenon is not a priority in the PNS 2016-2019 and is therefore not followed in terms of permanent image. As soon as there is an investigation, the police service deconcentrated by the judiciary ensures that it is carried out with the single point of contact.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-06-54-commissie-ic777x.u20	Minister, thank you for your answers. This is indeed one of the few laws passed while you were in opposition, and that you continue to apply in relation to this principle of deconcentration that we question, both we consider that the federal police must develop a capacity for expertise, a capacity for coordination, a capacity to support local units and an ability to interface with the police of neighbouring states. The phenomenon of theft and trafficking of antiquities is worrying. Concrete evidence shows that it can contribute to the financing of terrorism, which is one of the priorities of the National Plan. It is not just a question of fighting its most visible effects, but of trying to prevent it by cutting off its sources of funding. I do not see how, with one person within the Art and Antiquities cell, we can do it effectively. I understand that a statistical bias in relation to the small number of cases concerned can lead to very strong and dramatic variations, but I really invite you, in the context of announced evaluations, to pay more attention to this issue and to have the wisdom to strengthen the means of coordination in this area because the situation is really problematic. Several internal and external indicators show this. I regret your lack of proactivity in response to these worrying indications.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-06-54-commissie-ic777x.u21	Mr Minister, the new KB on the status of the Special Guardian, which has just appeared, does not mean that members of the integrated police will have to wait five years to stand for the post of Special Guardian, and I am pleased to see that. This also brings the advantage that policemen can make their knowledge and experience, which is still up to date, available fairly quickly. In 2015, I asked parliamentary questions about the special rangers. For example, I asked whether it was possible to add a third exemption in Article 9 of the former implementing act for courses in law, minutes, interrogation techniques, weapons, arms legislation and deontology. The new Royal Decree provides for basic training, which includes at least the following subjects: the law, the minutes, the special field guard, safe and responsible action and social skills. However, the new KB does not provide for exemptions. Is there going to be a ministerial decision specifying the training? Will exemptions be provided for the subjects of law and record for police officers who have recently left the police and who may be recruited for the post of Special Guardian?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-06-54-commissie-ic777x.u22	On 10 September 2017, the KB was adopted regulating the status of the Special Field Guards. As regards the conditions of exercise, incompatibility with functions in a police or intelligence service remains, but the previously required five-year waiting period between the pursuit of those activities and that of special field guard is abolished. This will facilitate the transition from one sector to another. It is now envisaged that certain aspects of the Royal Decree of 10 September 2017, including training, will be further developed by means of a ministerial decision. In the past, the Implementing Decision of 20 December 2017 already provided for exemptions for first aid for accidents and techniques and practical action in the event of fire under certain conditions. The future implementing decision will also include exemptions for basic training. In this context, your request for former police personnel will be examined. You understand, of course, that it is necessary to determine precisely what level of knowledge police officers have acquired during their training in order to carry out the specific tasks of a particular field guard. It is only after examination of that element that a decision may be taken to grant exemptions. I can tell you in advance that I am in principle in favour of valorising competences in the right circumstances and, therefore, avoiding the possibility of experience and skills being denied recognition, or that people who already have the right competences are unnecessarily asked to take courses and training courses. I will therefore examine any proposal for exemption in that light.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-06-54-commissie-ic777x.u23	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. Do you have a visual on any timing? Or is that question coming too soon?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-06-54-commissie-ic777x.u24	That's being prepared now.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-06-54-commissie-ic777x.u25	I'll wait.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-06-54-commissie-ic777x.u26	Mr President, Minister, last Thursday, workers from the Information and Communication Centre (ICC) wanted to denounce the shortage of staff in their offices located on the road to the Procession, in Mons. Some calls to 101 cannot be handled by the emergency services due to lack of staff. Trade union delegates questioned the FPS Finances and the Federal Police on their very worrying situation. For several years, the services that collect calls to 101, CIC callmakers, have been under pressure. Due to a shortage of staff, employees no longer know where to lead and have decided to question their management. A dozen workers have thus positioned themselves in front of the premises of the call services on the path of the Procession, in Mons, without affecting the services. "We are taking advantage of the annual consultation meeting with the presence of several executives from the internal FPS hierarchy and the federal police," explains Thierry Laune, trade union delegate CSC and calltaker. "It's been over a year and a half since we denounced this situation." He denounces the shortage of staff. Calltakers are neutral, so they do not belong to the police or medical services. Charged with covering the calls of the entire Hainaut, from Comens to Chimay, they are often overwhelmed. On average, the CIC receives 450,000 calls per year, compared to 375,000 calls per year from the Antwerp province. This is the job of employees in dealing with calls that are not previously filtered, unlike other provinces. It goes from the dog crossing a street recklessly to a more serious drama. The federal police, on the other hand, must take 20% of the calls, but they are also unable to do so because of the shortage of staff. Minister, what do you intend to do in response to this alarming situation in the CIC in Mons? Have you had any contacts, in particular, with the staff representatives who demonstrated last week? Are you planning measures but also additional funding to hire new workers in support of the current team?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-06-54-commissie-ic777x.u27	Mr Vanden Burre, the overload of work in the Information and Communication Centres (ICCs), particularly in Mons, is a problem of which we are well aware. My services are doing everything they can to recruit new employees from the authorized budget margins. I referred to the general measures under way in the committee on 29 November last year, in response to questions from Messrs. Delannois and Flahaux. An additional EUR 1 million has been made available to recruit new callmakers at national level. The solution chosen is to recruit 42 calltakers. The overall real deficit in CTM will increase from 32% (from September 2017) to 20%. A total of 42 people will begin basic training on January 3, 2018. This training will take about three months. These individuals will enter their 101 centre in April 2018. They will be distributed among the different CICs according to language needs and roles. The distribution will be made on the basis of the Directorate's calculations for police information and ICT resources, taking into account the deficits of each CIC. In the case of Mons, the current framework is 52 and the actual framework is 49. So the difference is not that big. But it is because of absences, part-time work and illness that there are only about 40 employees present. Additional staff will be added in April 2018. In addition to these, we strive to reduce the number of abusive calls and to better direct calls to the appropriate emergency service: the police, the fire department or the ambulance. I am thinking here of application 112, where we are acting in two ways: to increase staff and to use technological means to reduce the number of abusive calls and calls which amount to almost 30% for numbers 101 and 112. These elements must also help to reduce pressure in the centres. I would like to add another measure. We're gonna connect all the CIC power plants. Thus, if there is an overload on a power station in the event of an incident in a region, one can have a balance of calls, that is, one can direct calls to other power stations which at that time are less loaded. Sometimes it's to give the same message as, for example, "we know there's a storm." In the event of a crisis, this will reduce the workload for the workforce.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-06-54-commissie-ic777x.u28	Minister, thank you for this detailed answer. I think it is indeed important to have been able to respond urgently through recruitment, through the release of additional budgets. This is important given the situation on the ground in many CICs and in particular in Mons. I will look in detail at all your answers. I will come back to that, but the emergency response is already welcome.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-06-54-commissie-ic777x.u29	Minister, the Crisis Centre, in collaboration with the federal services to the governors of Liège and Walloon Brabant, conducted a crisis management exercise on Thursday 30 November. The objective was to test the planned national contingency plan in the event of a simultaneous hostage-taking attack or attack. As reported by the media, the exercise was conducted at Liège airport and at the Nivelles military base and was used to test operational and strategic aspects of emergency procedures on the ground. The scenario, described as complex but realistic, provided for a terrorist attack and hostage taking on a bus at Liège Airport, followed by similar events during a public rally at the Nivelles military base. The feedback from this simulation is positive, according to the press. End-of-year impressions highlight the effective functioning of cooperation between provincial and federal authorities, as well as between police and intelligence services. Moreover, the flow of information would also have been well managed. Do you have any formal conclusions that would have been drawn from this exercise? What are the positive points and those that still need to be improved, as in any exercise? What new mechanisms and protocols have been put in place and tested since the 22 March attacks?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-06-54-commissie-ic777x.u30	Mr Vanden Burre, at this stage, no formal conclusions have been drawn from this exercise. The official debriefing of this exercise is scheduled for the end of December. However, several positive points were highlighted as well as areas for improvement. On the positive side, the transition from the provincial phase in Liège and Walloon Brabant to a federal phase worked very well. The close collaboration between the provincial and federal authorities as well as the contacts relating to police and judicial operations were welcomed by the various actors concerned. The communicators of the various authorities and services concerned were able to test their procedures and actions to inform the population through simulated media and citizen pressure demonstrating the importance of communicating in times of crisis. The ICMS secure portal was used by the actors in the exercise and met their needs. With regard to the points to be improved, debriefing will enable them to be identified accurately. Nevertheless, this exercise highlighted the importance of having an optimal operational and technical infrastructure to manage this type of major attack. The Royal Decree of 1 May 2016 laying down the national emergency plan for the approach to a terrorist hostage-taking or terrorist attack has been tested as well as the special plans for the emergency and provincial "terrorism" intervention of Liège and the Walloon Brabant.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-06-54-commissie-ic777x.u31	Minister, thank you for your answer. It will be interesting to come back to the subject after the official debriefing. We wanted to react quickly about this event that occurred last week, but I also understand that there is a need for systematic action.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-06-54-commissie-ic777x.u32	Question No 22993 by Mrs Kattrin Jadin and the attached questions No 22300 and No 22315 by Mrs Kattrin Jadin and Mr Philippe Pivin are transformed into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-06-54-commissie-ic777x.u33	Mr President, Minister, first of all I would like to apologize for my delay, but my presence was required in the Committee on External Relations. Minister, on Tuesday, November 21, a fire took place in a cooling tower at NLMK, a steel company located in La Louvière. Large columns of black smoke escaped from the sinister. The municipal authorities in Luxembourg have triggered the emergency plan for a communal intervention, due to the likely presence of asbestos in the building. Minister, have the fire department ever provided you with information about the cause(s) of this disaster? Can you tell me, at this stage of the investigation, whether the smoke released by this fire contained traces of asbestos? If so, was the level of asbestos present a danger to the surrounding population? The NLMK plant site is located in the heart of the city. During this intervention, were people intoxicated by these smokes? What about the firefighters present to extinguish this disaster? Does each of the emergency areas have documents indicating that there is a particular risk in all companies? I am thinking here, in this case, of the presence of asbestos? Do the companies responsible for dismantling this building possess all the qualifications required in the asbestos removal? All my questions are explained by the fact that, in my opinion, prevention is better than cure.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-06-54-commissie-ic777x.u34	Mr Flahaux, following your oral question, my administration contacted the Hainaut-Centre emergency zone to obtain information on the fire in a cooling tower at the NLMK company in La Louvière on 21 October. According to the information available to the rescue zone, in the process of disassembly of asbeste-cement plates by a specialized company, the latter would have used a torch to cut the fastening bolts, which would have resulted in the heat source causing the wood to burst and the nearby insulation. According to the on-site experts, in this case significant concentrations of asbestos in the air are unlikely due to their rapid ascent due to heat and high dilution in the atmosphere. Post-intervention air control measures - between 3:00 p.m. and 7:00 p.m. - did not reveal anything. The ground samples revealed small fragments of sheet metal up to 250 m in the wind direction, thus inside the site. As a precaution, and in accordance with the standard operating procedure for this type of fire, the emergency zone has delimited a wind direction diffuse cone. The population beyond the site in the diffuse cone between 1,500 m and 2,000 m from the burning building was confined to its home. Traffic was banned in this area until full control of the disaster and the absence of smoke. As the prevailing winds moved in the opposite direction to the railways, they were in a green zone, that is, in a safe zone. The train traffic was therefore not interrupted but, as a safety measure, the Infrabel representative present at the operational command post requested that the trains run closed windows. All exposed firefighters had respiratory protection equipment and followed the cleaning procedure prescribed during this type of fire. The list of stakeholders was forwarded to occupational medicine for follow-up on their medical records. The number of participants in the exclusion zone has been deliberately limited, in line with the relief operations to be carried out. The aim was to fix asbestos fibres as quickly as possible by washing the maximum amount of smoke. Firefighters from border areas who came in reinforcement - Walloon Brabant and East Hainaut - remained throughout the cold zone, back to the wind. Each company with specific risks on its site must have an inventory and submit it to the Chief Relief Officer upon request, which has been done in this case. This responsibility rests with the owner of the site and not with the emergency zone.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-06-54-commissie-ic777x.u35	Mr. Minister, obviously you've searched the file. This is useful because, unfortunately, it is always necessary to rely on such experiments to improve the operation of rescues. Thank you. That's what I was expecting.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-06-54-commissie-ic777x.u36	Mr President, Minister, I would like to ask a question about BOB campaigns and the controls associated with them. The evaluation of the last BOB campaign clearly led to conclusions and recommendations. I see a change in strategy in the approach to police controls, which are increasing in number. The peculiarity of this year is that these controls will change places every forty minutes. You said that there would be no more big checks, but small teams that change places to surprise motorists. The idea is to prevent drivers from being made aware of controls via social networks. Everyone shares information. Let us admit that we know this principle. These teams will be composed of four to six officers and may arise at any time of the day. Minister, my questions are simple. What are the conclusions and recommendations of the last BOB campaign evaluation? Apart from blood alcohol testing, what types of problems have been identified as requiring police intervention and how often? What objectives in terms of results and effectiveness have you set in relation to these new security measures?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-06-54-commissie-ic777x.u37	Mr Kir, the previous BOB campaign took place from 9 June 2017 to 4 September 2017. During this period, 319,006 drivers were checked, of which 3.1% were positive. We see an annual decrease in the number of drivers under the influence of alcohol, which is a positive trend. Indeed, in 2011 this figure was still 5.2%. The evaluation showed that the number of pre-tests carried out using the sampling device had increased. With this device, people do not touch the device: breathing is enough. These devices facilitate fast and fluid operation in the field, making it easier for drivers to control their driving under the influence of alcohol. Just blow slightly into the device, then it detects if there is alcohol in the expired air and, if so, the usual procedure with the breath tester is started. In the previous summer's campaign, about 30% more pre-tests were carried out. The BOB campaign that usually takes place in summer and winter is now well known and bearing fruit, with an increasing number of controlled drivers and fewer drivers driving under influence. We do not have an overview of the most frequent interventions. The results of the campaign relate to the conduct under influence, since it is a central theme. In addition, police officers are asked to check other things, such as flight documents, the wearing of the seat belt, the correct use of the child seat, accidents, etc. With regard to this winter's BOB campaign, the objective is to control a minimum of 300,000 drivers by paying due attention to the quality of the checks, i.e. making checks at the right place and at the right time. The police zones and the federal police receive a report for each campaign containing information such as the time when alcohol-related accidents took place. Thanks to this, they can adapt the controls to times of risk. We also note that police controls are continually shared on social media such as Waze, Twitter or Facebook. Given the times and places at risk, shorter control devices can provide a response to maintain a sufficiently high risk of being controlled. In addition, in case of significant control, for several hours at the same place, it is noted that motorists are looking for other routes. For example, in the countryside, motorists use small roads frequented by young cyclists, which can increase the risk of accidents. With this approach, we can avoid such dangers.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-06-54-commissie-ic777x.u38	Minister, thank you for your answers. The strategic choice of being mobile to avoid being unmasked on social networks is quite consistent. Meanwhile, there has been a social movement on the Mons-Hainaut side. I will also ask you about this.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-06-54-commissie-ic777x.u39	Minister, with the concern to have an ever more effective police force on the ground, I asked you at the beginning of the year about the use of drones to detect road accidents. I asked you about whether or not there was a legal framework adapted to police practices. You replied that the Royal Decree of 10 April 2006 on the use of remotely piloted aircraft in Belgian airspace provided for an exception for State operators such as the police. The Royal Decree is therefore not applicable to police aircraft or other rescue services. For this reason, the federal police took the initiative, together with the Home SPF, to create regulations in the form of a ministerial circular. Drafting of the circular is under way and it is too early to go into detail, but the royal decree for commercial use is broadly in line with this circular. This will depend on the training of pilots, the register of drones for the police etc. The finalisation of this circular was planned for the summer of this year. Minister, I'll come back to you a year after your answer. What is the status of the finalisation of this circular and its implementation? How many drones are available to the federal police to date? What is your assessment of their use?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-06-54-commissie-ic777x.u40	The circular in question went a long way. The various stakeholders have been consulted, opinions have been collected and services devoted to them and other priorities. You understand that such a decision-making process takes some time. Nevertheless, I can tell you that I will sign the circular again this calendar year. The federal police air support has three drones, one with an infrared camera. Special units also use drones. The road police use two drones made available to them by Vias, the Belgian Institute for Road Safety, which has changed its name. The governor of Limburg also bought a drone shared by the police and rescue services. The implementation of this drone is coordinated by the Office of the Director-Coordinator of the Administrative Police. This same way of working is applied by the Brussels Region. The Director-Coordinator has five drones provided by the Institute of Prevention and Safety. The police have already gained experience at the operational level. In total, it has carried out more than 50 missions in a wide range of fields: judicial investigations, accident reports on motorways, forensic missions and missions in the context of the negotiated management of public space.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-06-54-commissie-ic777x.u41	Minister, I hear your answers. You undertake in committee to sign and publish the circular by the end of the year. I'll take a look at it and come back to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-06-54-commissie-ic777x.u42	Mr President, Mr Jambon, here is another important subject for you, I know, as for all of us: these famous cameras (dash cams) in police cars. I read with interest in the press, that the representatives of the offices of Mobility, Justice and yours met for floor on an amendment of the law allowing the police to be equipped with dash cams. Your comments were reported in the following terms: "The use of cameras by the police for the detection of road traffic offences is regulated by the Road Traffic Act in a very limited manner" and that "it is therefore this law that must be adapted to allow the use of dashcams for the detection of such offences". You also pointed out that a working group had met "in order to reflect on how to adapt the legal text in order to adapt to the needs and reality of the field". What is the status of the amendment to this Act? Have you already planned the implementation of the actions necessary for the use of dash cams? What are the latest contacts you have had with the relevant actors on the subject? Where are we with the working group? Can conclusions already be presented to Parliament? There are still questions about the training of police officers in the use of such tools. Finally, what will be the main traffic offences covered by this scheme?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-06-54-commissie-ic777x.u43	Mr Kir, the finding of offences by the police services using dash cams is not allowed at the moment. Only offences included in the Royal Decree of 18 December 2002 determining offences whose finding based on physical evidence provided by apparatus operating automatically in the absence of a qualified agent is authentic until proven otherwise, may be detected by means of certified devices. An Act amending the Traffic Police Act should allow the use of mobile cameras, such as dash cams, to detect other traffic law violations, such as the use of mobile phones. This issue has been the subject of a unique consultation between my office, that of my colleague from Mobility and the police services. Concrete proposals for adaptation have been made in order to be able to meet the needs expressed. It is the responsibility of the Minister of Mobility, who is responsible for these matters, to take initiatives to amend the law. I must therefore refer you to him for further information on the progress made in this matter. The needs of the police have therefore been taken into account, but it is Mr. Bellot who must complete the work.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-06-54-commissie-ic777x.u44	Mr President, if I may, I would like to ask the minister an additional question. With regard to the nature of the offences, are the projects developed by your firm and the administration intended to be limited to a finding of road traffic offences or will these measures be extended to other areas of application?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-06-54-commissie-ic777x.u45	At first instance, they will be limited to the road police, but we can learn from them.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-06-54-commissie-ic777x.u46	Minister, have the inter-cabinet meetings or working groups discussed other objectives that you could set? So at this point, the only offence to be investigated is this one, if I understand correctly.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-06-54-commissie-ic777x.u47	Yes.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-06-54-commissie-ic777x.u48	Perfect! I will not fail to question Minister Bellot about the bill to amend it.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-06-54-commissie-ic777x.u49	Mr Minister, according to a European report on drugs published last November by Europol and the European Monitoring Centre for Drugs and Drug Addiction, drug trafficking on the hidden face of the Internet, the darknet, represents a growing threat against which Europe must deploy more resources. According to the European Commissioner for Home Affairs, Dimitris Avramopoulos: "We need to be a step ahead of criminals. That's why we're stepping up our efforts to fight illicit drugs and we're focusing on cybersecurity." According to the Director of the Drug Observatory, Alexis Goosdeel: "With just a few clicks, buyers can easily obtain any type of drug, be it synthetic drugs, cannabis, cocaine, heroin, or a series of new substances, which poses a threat to the health and safety of citizens." I admit I don't know much about it. I don't even smoke. But I think it's pretty scary. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, have you been aware of this report? If so, what measures are included in the national cybersecurity plan? I know it's a Prime Minister's project. I've already had the opportunity to interrogate him. But this subject is directly related to your police skills. At the level of the police, what are the budgets and personnel set up to strengthen the means of investigating and combating drug trafficking on the Internet? According to your services, what is the estimated cost of Internet drug trafficking in Belgium during the period from 2014 to the present? Did you see a decrease or increase in traffic during this period?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-06-54-commissie-ic777x.u50	Mr Kir, the police have recently received the report. It still needs to be analyzed. There is no national cybersecurity plan in Belgium. There is a strategic cybersecurity that has been developed by the Centre for Cybersecurity and a 2016-2019 National Security Plan. This strategy focuses on cybersecurity, i.e. the security of computer systems and the response to a cyberattack, and has nothing to do with internet crime. Terminology is not always well used. We need to make a difference between internet crime and cybersecurity, which is used to protect our facilities from outside attacks. The Internet as a facilitator of crime has been identified as a cross-cutting theme in the National Security Plan because of its importance. This means that it must be an important focus for all the phenomena to be addressed by the National Security Plan, as a matter of priority in the phenomenon of drug trafficking. In the context of this phenomenon, the police approach is oriented in such a way as to reduce supply both on the Internet and on the street. In order to tackle Internet or darknet traffic, units are supported by the Computer Crime Unit (CCU). In the event that the report highlights important new trends – traffic on the darknet is not a recent development – the management of this phenomenon will obviously be adapted accordingly. With regard to the federal police, there is a staff budget for the entire federal police force. The distribution of the staff within it is governed by the Royal Decree of 27 October 2015 laying down the distribution of the personnel of the Federal Police. Only the broad lines have been defined by Directorate, but the number of persons per Directorate has not been defined in order to give managers some flexibility in the mobilization of their staff. Within the deadline, it proved impossible to obtain the correct number of people working within the Directorates decentralised in the context of the fight against drugs. There is no overview of local areas. This question should be addressed to the Standing Committee on Local Police. In addition, for one or the other drug investigation, assistance is possible through other sections such as the Heritage section – to seize the property benefits – or the Computer Crime Unit of the Criminal Police for the darknet part. The latest report of the European Monitoring Centre for Drugs estimates drug trafficking in Europe at more than EUR 24 billion. The share of Internet traffic still accounts for only a small part of this traffic, but we must be aware that this share will tend to increase in the coming years. On the other hand, police services are well aware that certain types of products, mainly new psychoactive substances, are almost exclusively transmitted via the Internet. Previous judicial reviews have led to the closure of clandestine drug sales platforms. It also appears that many visitors to these platforms were looking for drugs.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-06-54-commissie-ic777x.u51	I hear your answers, minister. You want to take full notice of the report that has been transmitted to draw conclusions. I imagine that you will take initiatives in this area and that the Security Plan is already proposing concrete actions. In the context of the Security Plan, I assume that you will take into account the report drawn up by Europol and the European Monitoring Centre for Drugs and Drug Addiction. I suggest you come back to this when you take new initiatives.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-06-54-commissie-ic777x.u52	Mr. Jambon, I heard from the press that you visited the Milipol show in Paris. This gesture seems useful to me. Whether you're a minister, mayor and/or zone chief, you need to be able to get in touch with the equipment to better understand what it's going on. To this end, such a trade fair is an essential forum for exchange. This is where we discover innovations. In this way, one can put one's action in modernity. Milipol Paris is the global meeting of actors in the internal security of states. This is how public opinion perceives it. The opportunity is thus offered to exhibitors to develop their business and to showcase their innovations with leading suppliers, decision makers and buyers in the security sector. Mr Jambon, I will not ask you about the purpose of your visit, which I fully agree with. I would simply like to know what lessons you have learned and what initiatives you intend to take as a result of this visit.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-06-54-commissie-ic777x.u53	Mr Kir, I was indeed invited by Agoria. This federation brings together Belgian companies inspired by technology who want to contribute to universal progress through the development and implementation of innovations. I would add that this organisation represents more than 1,750 companies and about 300,000 workers. Its organizational structure is based in particular on industry teams, which provide advice, workshops and networking events in sectors such as "Security & Defense Industries". Agoria-owned companies are active in the field of security and defence equipment. They are key players in this sector, developing services, products and systems with other national and international groups. I visited the following companies: Centex in Tilt: producer of high-tech materials used in protective clothing and equipment of the security services in particular; FN in Herstal: producer of firearms used by the police, among others; BATS in Liège: producer of advanced technological solutions (thermal cameras, radars, optical sensors especially for the protection of critical infrastructures); Sioen in Ardooie in Flanders, manufacturer of high-tech materials for the protection of people; Teledyne ICM in Andrimont: manufacturer of a portable X-ray solution for scanning suspicious objects; Pitagon in Brussels: innovative in threat management with in particular a unique system of anti-camion barriers. It has been nominated as one of the five innovation awards. She didn't win, but she was one of the top five. She invented a very flexible and efficient device to use to stop trucks.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-06-54-commissie-ic777x.u54	Red and yellow. This does not arise in a cross-cutting manner. The device switches as soon as a truck arrives. The truck that touches him is lifted. It's a very innovative system but they haven't won. I also visited Nex Tech in Saint-Nicolas: the designer of satellite communication modes and satellite infrastructure for emergency services in particular. Then, Elbit Systems, an Israeli company with a Belgian representation. In particular, it is the designer of information systems in emergency situations and for internal security. I have seen on the spot that these companies are extremely innovative in what they undertake and that, thanks to their products and services, they offer genuine added value in the fight against terrorism, the maintenance of law and order, the protection of vulnerable targets and critical infrastructure, as well as in many other security-related areas. In short, these leading companies, each in their own field, contribute to making Belgium - and other countries, because I assume they are present in the international market - safer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-06-54-commissie-ic777x.u55	It is a fairly positive and positive report from the Minister of the Interior. Belgian state-of-the-art companies, sometimes Walloon, sometimes Flemish, sometimes Brusselsish, who are present in a global meeting of security actors and who show all their know-how and innovation. A Brussels-based company has been nominated among the five most innovative companies. I find all this to be positive, and I believe that the minister's travel to this type of event is important. Companies need to feel that state representatives support them and I am very pleased to see Belgian know-how developed in the field of security. We don't have to blush when we hear everything you just told us here. This is proof that Belgium has a know-how to export abroad. That's very positive. Thank you for all the answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-06-54-commissie-ic777x.u56	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Thiébaut's 22331 was converted into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament 22336 by Mrs Lahaye-Battheu was postponed.
