ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic634x.u1	Mr President, Minister, on Thursday 9 March, you announced in De Standaard that you were in favour of the introduction of double voting rights in SAs and SPRLs and hoped for an agreement in the Council of Ministers before next summer. You made this statement following the debate in the Netherlands with the hostile offer of the US PPG group to buy the Dutch chemical group Akzo Nobel, an offer rejected by the Dutch company and the Dutch Finance Minister. The right to vote twice exists in the Netherlands. The aim of this instrument is to reject hostile ownership. He allowed Akzo Nobel to reject PPG's offer, as you will probably confirm. In Belgium, the debate on double voting has reappeared for several years. As far as it is concerned, the Ecolo-Groen Group supports this principle in order to encourage stable ownership with a long-term vision and to protect our companies from hostile predatory behaviour. That said, our proposal goes further than yours because we want to make this double voting right mandatory for listed companies, the main targets of financial predators and speculators. However, the general meeting of these companies will still be able to oppose this obligation by a 75% vote, as is the case in France under the Florange law. Minister, what double voting system do you intend to propose to the Council of Ministers and how? Do you intend to introduce a different system for publicly traded SAs, which are particular targets of hostile behaviour? In what timing do you intend to table a text in parliament?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic634x.u2	Mr Vanden Burre, without wanting to correct you too much, I did not say anything to the De Standaard. De Standaard wrote something but I didn't get in touch with the journalist in question. I didn't want to advertise. I want to correct the shooting in the official response because I want to go to the government first. In the reform that we are considering, multiple voting rights would become legally possible in the SPRL as well as in the non-listed public limited liability company. In listed public limited liability companies, the statutes could provide a maximum of double voting rights for loyal shareholders. The general meeting could introduce such a voting right by a majority of 80%. The sanction would be the suspension of the exercise of the right to vote related to the shares on which no payment, regularly called payable, has been made. The dual or multiple voting right could only apply to loyal shareholders in listed companies, i.e. shareholders on whose behalf the shares have been released and who have held those shares continuously for at least two years. When any form of takeover of the company begins to run a new period. The double or multiple voting right could, however, be lifted by a 75% majority with the participation of shareholders with this dual or multiple voting right. I hope that the draft law on companies can be approved by the Council of Ministers at first reading by the summer. If this timing is respected, the text can be discussed in Parliament at the end of autumn.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic634x.u3	Minister, thank you for your answers. What you said or didn't say in the Standaard doesn't make much difference to the debate, but that's what allowed me to bounce back on my question. I take note of your answer and note that we are not very far from the text of the bill that our group recently tabled on the subject. I hope that the Council of Ministers will be able to follow you in what you have proposed here, even if we wish for the listed SAs to be stronger, that there really is an obligation. We can discuss it when the text comes to parliament. This is really an important initiative because unbridled globalisation has extremely worrying effects for our economy, especially for the companies that are anchored in us, in our regions, and certainly small and medium-sized enterprises and listed companies. It is important to be able to put in place mechanisms that can preserve not only the local anchoring of enterprises but also the employment associated with them. This type of measure is part of a set of tools that need to be developed to protect themselves. We therefore look forward with great interest to the text which will be approved by the Council of Ministers, I hope as soon as possible. We look forward to having this debate with you in committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic634x.u4	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Van Cauter's 17234 will be converted into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Van Vaerenbergh's 17317 will be converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic634x.u5	Mr President, Minister, I'm going to talk to you about a project that bothers me a lot. You know that I am engaged, like you, in the fight against terrorism. We must be effective and it is clear that safety is a fundamental right of our people. On the other hand, we cannot, of course, take advantage of this struggle to challenge our plural democracy and our fundamental rights and freedoms. I believe that this is what is happening, particularly in the context of the BELFI project. This is a project created at the end of 2014, which brings together the Federal Judicial Police, the Public Prosecutor's Office, the Auditorate General, ONEM, FAMIFIED and the Social Inspectorate. Its aim is to identify social frauds committed by persons who are parties to join the ranks of the Islamic State in Syria. It appears, however, that this project has gradually evolved and that the faithful of the mosques visited by BELFI and the children attending the prayer schools annexed to these mosques are being systematically ignored. We have been warned of this by several witnesses. The Union of Mosques in Brussels alerted the authorities. If what they say is correct, it would be a challenge to our constitutional values and rights. Article 19 of the Constitution enshrines freedom of worship and article 6 of the Law on the Protection of Privacy prohibits "the processing of personal data which reveal racial or ethnic origin, political opinions, religious or philosophical beliefs, trade union membership". Minister, how do you coexist these lists of believers with the Belgian Constitution and in particular its Articles 11, 19, 22 and 22bis? Is it in conformity with the law of 8 December 1992 that a person sees his personal data collected without his consent and only because he attends a religious association, a mosque, a prayer school? Are people informed of the processing of their data? By whom and how are the data collected processed? Who has access to it? What confidentiality does this data cover? Under what conditions are these personal data stored? How long? In this context, how many people have seen their personal data processed because of their religious practice? Can this personal data be communicated to another government department? If so, which or which? And under what conditions? This is a question that I think is very important and very topical.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic634x.u6	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, within the framework of the BELFI project of the Brussels General Prosecutor's Office, which focuses on the Brussels Court of Appeal, and the Canal Plan, which focuses on the municipalities of the Brussels Canal area, integrated control actions are carried out with ASBL and other legal persons. They are carried out by the police, the social, fiscal, regional and communal inspection services, each acting within the framework of its own powers. With regard to the BELFI project, 23 ASBLs and 13 other legal entities were checked between September and December 2016. In this context, 28 criminal offences, 31 administrative offences and 14 illegal residents were reported. The same observations were made within the framework of the Canal Plan. Integrated controls demonstrate their significant added value. The illegal economy is also being combated, which increases social cohesion and security in neighbourhoods. Article 10 of the Act of 27 June 1921 on non-profit organizations requires each person to keep a register of members. In the event of an oral or written request, such associations shall immediately grant access to the register to any judicial or administrative authority. Article 6(2)(d) of the Law of 8 December 1992 on the protection of privacy allows the NSOs to keep lists of their members and persons with whom they maintain regular contacts, in which information of a philosophical and religious nature is included. Such data may be consulted and requested under strict and determined circumstances. In accordance with articles 23-28 of the Social Penal Code, social inspectors may enter all places in which they assume that work is carried out, check identities, carry out any examination, inspection and hearing, and collect information, for example, the aforementioned lists. In addition, they may be provided with all information media containing any data the establishment, maintenance or retention of which is prescribed by legislation. Articles 54 and 55 of the same Social Penal Code specify that they may communicate the information collected to other services. Article 61 of the VAT Code and article 315 of the Income Tax Code confer comparable powers on tax administrations. Police services may intervene in the assistance of others, but may also, of course, intervene ex officio in their administrative and judicial police missions. In this case, the police are subject to the conditions laid down in the Police Function Act or the Code of Criminal Investigation. Article 26 of the Police Function Act provides that police officers may always enter places accessible to the public in order to ensure the maintenance of public order, compliance with police laws and regulations and the detection of offences. On this occasion, they can also verify the pieces they discover there. Judicial information may be provided to the administrative department in accordance with Article 21bis of the Code of Criminal Investigation.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic634x.u7	Minister, I am not satisfied with this answer. You confuse the list of members of an ASBL with the faithful who will simply develop their religious practice in a place of worship. For example, I do not see how children who are in school could be assimilated to members of the ASBL. I think that for the moment we are completely deviating our fundamental rights and freedoms, including freedom of worship, to which you should pay particular attention. Let us imagine that this is done in a synagogue, in a Catholic church, in a center of secular action. It's unbearable. I therefore ask you to review with BELFI what they are doing exactly. I say and repeat that there is a difference between the register of staff members, which must be made available, and simple faithful who practice their religion, which is still accepted in our country. As far as I am concerned, I will continue the work of reflection on the subject. I have asked a constitutionalist linked to the Committee of Inquiry into Terrorist Attacks to examine the issue under constitutional law. We will look at how to prevent this drift that challenges our fundamental values.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic634x.u8	Minister, police judge Peter Dohndt has been complaining for some time that he has not always been given correct information about the criminal record of the offenders who have to appear before him. Recently he received a traffic offender who according to the municipal criminal record had nine convictions, but according to the central criminal record had a blank criminal record. You will understand that it is very difficult to judge someone correctly if they receive false information. Mr Minister, if the municipal criminal record is correct, why are the convictions not listed on the central criminal register? Is there any possibility of automatically including all judgments in both criminal records, so that there can be no further discrepancy?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic634x.u9	Mrs Lambrecht, in the case in point, made the mistake of consulting the central criminal record by an employee of the Dendermonde prosecutor's office. The search was done on the basis of the data Y X, born in 1968, while the person was actually born in autumn 1965. Since the search criteria entered were incorrect, the result obtained was also incorrect and different from the result obtained by the municipal criminal record, questioned by him on the basis of the correct identity. In the event of a subsequent review of the criminal record, the convictions in question were indeed recorded. The creation of the Central Criminal Register was intended to eliminate the decentralised criminal record. The latter is only possible once the central criminal record contains all the information. In recent years, therefore, the focus has been on updating and digitizing the information in the central and digital criminal records. Since 1 January 2015, the convictions of police courts have been automatically introduced into the Central Criminal Register. My administration is now focusing on the automatic introduction into the central criminal record of the convictions of the correctional court, the second source of convictions for the central criminal record after the police courts. From 1 January 2018, municipal services will be able to rely exclusively on the central criminal record to deliver extracts from the criminal record to the citizen. My administration is currently focusing on the creation of the link between the municipal registers and the central criminal register. Almost 400 municipalities have already been linked to the Central Criminal Register and thus have the possibility to provide extracts to citizens on the basis of information from the Central Criminal Register.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic634x.u10	Thank you, Minister. I think I understood, but I'm going to check again, that the municipal criminal record is supposed to disappear and that there is one register left from 2018.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic634x.u11	Mr Minister, this is a question that I have also asked your colleagues in the interior and in health, hoping that it will also enrich my information on the statistics on which I am working. More than ever, the fight for respect for women is important and necessary in our country. It is not only a fight for more respect, but also a fight against discrimination and inequality. The latest figures on the abuse of women in the Walloon Region are interesting: 18 rapes committed every day, with only 16% of victims reaching the authorities. In these situations, the aggressor is mainly a man and the victims are minors. In addition to sexual assault, some women live in hell in their conjugal lives where they experience physical or sexual abuse. In addition to proven violence against women, it is also the fear of talking about it and the sense of guilt that binds their freedom in our society. Minister, according to the FPS, how many women are victims of violence every day in our country? How many women were victims of rape in 2016 in Belgium in particular? With which entity(s) are complaints of physical assault recorded? What was the total number of physical assault complaints filed in 2016? Can you provide us with statistics by judicial district of physical and sexual assault complaints filed in 2016? What is the average time to process a complaint of assault? What is the percentage of complaints initiating prosecutions? Do these complaints generally result in a conviction?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic634x.u12	Mrs Jadin, I share your concern about the importance and necessity of fighting for women's respect. The information you request is of a purely statistical nature. The College of Attorneys General replied that it was impossible to provide the requested information within this short period of time. On the other hand, if you ask me for this information through a written question, I will ask the statistical analysts of the Public Prosecutor's Office to provide me with data, as long as they are available, as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic634x.u13	Can't we pretend I didn't ask it and turn it into a written question? Would that be possible, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic634x.u14	You can reintroduce it with a variant, in written form.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic634x.u15	Mr President, Minister, a second survey carried out by the Flemish Health Inspectorate reveals many positive issues, but also two problems with regard to the FPC Ghent. A bottleneck is the staffing, you know. There is not only a problem to ensure the care and safety of patients, but also the high workload of the staff remains striking. The FPC Ghent itself says that it is not able to do much about the staff standard because it is defined in a KB. A second bottleneck concerns the solitary cells. For the FPC Ghent, a technical maintenance contract was concluded with Denys, but the repair works are not carried out so that the isolation cells cannot be used. Minister, do you think that the staff standard for the FPC Ghent and in the near future for the FPC Antwerp should also be adjusted via KB? If no, will you provide a different solution? Or is there no solution? How will the problem of isolation cells be addressed? Will you take action against Denys for not carrying out the maintenance contract, possibly together with Minister Jambon and the Government of the Buildings? Will these problems be taken into account when installing the FPC Antwerp?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic634x.u16	Mr President, Mrs Uyttersprot, I have to refer you to my colleague Mr De Block and Mr Jambon, in view of their competence in this matter, for your comments and questions on staff standards and on the necessary repairs. I can give you an explanation. The need for care of the interned varies. They should not all be seen as high care and not all need the same standard of care. There is a phased treatment pathway within the different departments. In addition, the infrastructure is specially designed to modulate the occupation. As treatment progresses and the patient evolves, less guidance is needed. The FPC was a start-up organisation in 2015. A number of aspects of the operation had to be rolled out even better after the start-up. Many of the start-up problems have now been eliminated. The remaining problems are being addressed. After the start-up of the FPC, it was found that the separation areas were not sufficiently resistant to damage. Many adjustments were made in the course of 2016 at the expense of the Buildings Management. Despite these improvements, it was found in autumn 2016 and spring 2017 that a further number of damages were made. At the moment, a separation room of the eight is unusable. The remaining seven are functional but smaller repairs must be carried out in five which do not impede their use. The necessary repairs are now in progress. This is done under the supervision of the follow-up committee with representatives of Justice, Public Health and the Government of the Buildings. There are indeed difficulties with the maintenance contract. In order to resolve this problem, an arbitration procedure is being prepared in consultation with the Buildings Management, the operator and the maintenance company. In order to avoid such problems in the file for the FPC Antwerp, maintenance will be part of the operating agreement.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic634x.u17	Thank you, Minister. At the same time, this question is now being put effectively to Minister De Block. It will be a question of staffing standards in particular. I note that in the meantime seven isolation rooms can be re-used. It is a pity that this has been delayed. It is indeed a good thing that lessons are drawn from the bottlenecks that emerge and that exploitation and maintenance will now be included in one contract for the FPC Antwerp.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic634x.u18	Minister, over the past few months I and many other fellow Members have asked you several times for figures. Traditionally, this is done through written questions, including on judicial decisions, complaints lodged, dismissals, proceedings, subpoenas and the like. It concerns both correctional figures as well as civil law figures, including non-compliance with rights of access, family abandonment, maintenance contributions, disenfranchisement from parental authority and so on. In your answer to a question from the beginning of 2015, you indicated that almost no figures could be made available, as the statistical project was still under development. A year later, in February 2016, you announced that a Nomenclature Committee was being set up to examine the nomenclature of the parquet statistics, linked to quality codes. The purpose of that committee is to ensure a harmonised integrated nomenclature for criminal statistics. You would refer the problem I raised to that committee and ask it to take appropriate action. We are now again a year later, hence the following questions. Have you been able to put my question to the committee? If so, can my question of keeping figures be answered? If so, from when? If not, for what reason? Will this be possible in the long term for civil statistics and not just for criminal statistics?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic634x.u19	Mrs Uyttersprot, as I replied to your oral question in February, a nomenclature committee was set up at the College of the Public Prosecutor's Office to examine the nomenclature of public prosecutors' statistics linked to the codes of qualification. This committee was re-established last year and should ensure a more harmonised and integrated nomenclature for criminal statistics. The agreement has been made that this should be done for all forms of criminal law, including special and social criminal law. Ten additional lawyers have been appointed to the support service for this purpose. They are currently working on qualification codes through a global and chain-oriented approach. The most advanced is general and military criminal law. Traffic criminal law, special and social criminal law will then come into play. This is a long-term work which should be completed in the course of next year. For civil statistics, the College of the Public Prosecutor and the College of the courts and courts will work together to apply uniform codes there as well.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic634x.u20	Thank you, Minister. In the era of computerization, we can expect these things to be a little easier than before, when writing was still being done. If I understand correctly, the intention is to maintain this nomenclature for all forms of criminal law by the end of next year and, in the long term, something is also in the pipeline for civil statistics. It is very important that these things can be kept up to date in order to learn from them.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic634x.u21	Mr President, Minister, I could limit this question to one sentence, but I will formulate it in its entirety. In Belgium one can only become magistrate after an examination organized by the Supreme Court of Justice. Public prosecutors and referees are not magistrates and therefore do not have to pass an exam through this board, but do pass an exam written by the FPS Justice, in which the first selection is organised by Selor. The chances of success of the magistrate exam are of course increasing, after the performance of the function of parquet lawyer or referendary for a certain period of time. The final exam for parole lawyers and referees dates back to 2011. The recruitment reserve remained valid for five years. In January 2016, that reserve was extended by one year. In addition to this list, they are also recruited on old lists for the recruitment of lawyers from other federal government agencies, including the FPS Finance. The latest appearances in the Belgian Official Gazette on vacant places mentioned exams at the FPS Finances of 2015. Meanwhile, the parquets complain that they're undermanned. As far as I know, there's still no exam coming up as a parole attorney, hence my next questions. First of all, is it true that in 2017 there will be recruitment on a list for which interested parties registered in 2011? What's the reason for that? Secondly, the personnel department of the judicial order can only advise applications to follow Selor's website. Isn't it possible to make those exams public by another route? Finally, and this is the most important question, when is a next exam scheduled for parole lawyers and referees?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic634x.u22	Mr President, Mrs Uyttersprot, since December 2008, Selor has been responsible for the organisation of comparative selections for public prosecutors and referees. The Royal Decree of 10 November 2006 on the statute, career and remuneration arrangements determines the organisation of selections for the judicial system. However, this regulatory provision is linked to the selection methodology which is also applied to federal administrations. For reasons of efficiency and optimum use of reserves, the above-mentioned KB allows Selor to open up existing recruitment reserves, the competence profile of which corresponds to the position to be taken up, in this case a court lawyer, to use within the judicial order. In concrete terms, following vacancies announced in 2017, in addition to the own reserve of the comparative selection of courts and courts, which dates back to 2011, more recent jurist reserves for all federal government departments and the comparative selection of jurist for the FPS Finances were also used. These last two selections were opened by Selor in view of the competence profile in line with the vacancies for parquet lawyers and referees. The yard reserve of the selection organised by Selor for the judicial order from 2011 is not completely exhausted and therefore still potentially allows candidates to apply to fill in a number of vacancies within the judicial order. In general, a formal notice of selection is published in the Belgian Official Journal and also the mentioned KB of 10 November 2006 provides that the notice is published in the Belgian Official Journal for selections specifically organised for the judicial order. The entry on Selor's website is an additional form of publication. By the way, via the My Selor system, candidates can register to receive the announcement of selections by e-mail according to their level. There is currently no specific selection of parquet lawyer and referendaris. I understand, however, that Selor intends to organise a new comparative selection for all federal administrations in the short term so that it seems more efficient to join this general selection, rather than organise a parallel selection, before the courts.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic634x.u23	Mr Minister, if I understand correctly, those interested who have not participated since 2011 should register for the general comparative selection, not specifically for the job of a public prosecutor. They can be informed via Selor and they can also be informed according to the publications in the Belgian Official Journal. However, that does not seem to me to be the best way to find a job. We certainly advise people to go through the comparative selection.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic634x.u24	Mrs Lahaye-Battheu is absent.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic634x.u25	Minister, last month I asked you a question about the Commission's report on maintenance contributions. That committee was installed with delay in January 2016 and will develop a generally accepted system for an objective calculation of maintenance contributions for children of divorced parents. The need for a uniform and objective system was the basis for this. The Law of 19 March 2010 providing for the establishment of the Committee states that a report must be submitted by 31 January of each year. That report would be delivered to you on 24 February after its adoption. Hoping that you have already been able to take note of the report, I have a number of questions on this subject. Can you give an update on the committee already? Has a concrete working plan been drawn up and what is its content? In February, you said that the extraordinary costs will be included in the evaluation. Can you tell me how they are defined and what exactly is covered by them? By what time do you intend to be able to transpose the specific opinions into legislation?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic634x.u26	Mrs Uyttersprot, also referring to my answer to oral question No 1, by Mrs Uyttersprot, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). 16466 I regret to inform you Following your oral question, however, my services urged the committee to complete the report as soon as possible. According to the law, this should be done before 31 January of the year following the civil year, but you will understand that the delay is due to the fact that the committee was only launched in January 2016 and that attention had to be paid at that time to the appointment of a chairman and the drafting of a house rules. In any event, the Commission has informed me that it is making every effort to submit the annual report to the Court at the end of April, after which I shall, as a matter of urgency, submit the report, supplemented by my observations, to the Court, in accordance with Article 1322, §1 of the Court's Code. I am therefore waiting with you for the content of the annual report to see whether any recommendations made in this report should be transposed into legislation.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic634x.u27	Minister, it is a pity that the committee's first report, which has already been prepared with a delay of five years, should have been prepared in 2011 and will have been delayed for four months. The uniformity of maintenance contributions is important. Moreover, the numerous conflicts about the interpretation of extraordinary costs can easily be avoided if the committee produces a good report and provides workable elements that can lead to legislation. Distinctiveness will also lead to a reduction in work for the courts. Just think of all the discussions that are currently under way in the courtroom on the interpretation of extraordinary costs. We are waiting with you for the report by the end of April.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic634x.u28	Minister, people with financial difficulties often pay back their outstanding debts on a spread basis. Creditors or debtors usually charge interest and/or court fees for this. The payments are then initially allocated to the court costs and to the current interests. Where the debtor can pay only limited amounts, this means that the outstanding amount of the principal will not be reduced or will only be reduced very slowly. The slow phasing-out or lack of phasing-out of the outstanding principal will result in interest always being calculated on the initial amount due or on a very slowly declining amount. This may lead to a spiral of debt where the debtor no longer gets out and which, so to speak, only benefits the debtors, concluding that the injured parties have no or no recollection of the original debt. Article 1254 of the Civil Code now provides that payments cannot be allocated to the principal amount until they have been allocated to the interests. This can be reversed only with the creditor's consent. Mr President, do you think it would be appropriate to rely first on the principal and only later on the costs and interests, so that the debt spiral can be stopped more quickly? What initiatives will you take in this regard?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic634x.u29	Mr President, Mrs Lambrecht, as you may know, several working groups are currently discussing the recodification of the Civil Code. The purpose of this exercise is to give the Civil Code its central place in private law. To this end, the exercise aims to regulate, as far as possible, all property relations between citizens in a systematic, rational and comprehensible manner, making the law more accessible to citizens, and in a way that meets the needs of citizens and is supported by views that live in society. The right of commitment is central to all property rights in these reforms. Your question concerns precisely one aspect of this contract law, in particular the nullification of commitments by payment, and was therefore addressed to the working group on the reform of contract law. This working group indicated in an initial reaction that Article 1254, to which you refer in your question, states that the provision made on capital and interest, but which does not cover the entire debt, is primarily charged on interest. The costs incurred by the debtors are equivalent to the interests referred to in this Article, the working party seems to be a very and perhaps too wide reading of Article 1254. This seems to be a separate problem in essence, which may be dealt with in a separate provision of the Revised Civil Code. The working group will consider it. The Working Group also points out that your question concerns one aspect of the delicate balance between the rights and obligations of creditor and debtor, which was established by the current Civil Code. The working group will continue to study the idea that you are suggesting, namely that the abbreviations should be based first on the principal and only afterwards on the interests, in the context of the search for a new balance between the rights and obligations of creditor and debtor, which should ultimately be reflected in a recouped Civil Code.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic634x.u30	Minister, I would like to thank you and the working group.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic634x.u31	Mr Minister, the rates used by bailiffs in judicial recovery are currently regulated by the almost 40-year-old Royal Decree of 30 November 1976 fixing the rate of civil and commercial bailiffs' deeds and the rate of certain allowances. The rates are from the period when the bailiff had much less technical and electronic tools to facilitate his or her work. Modernisation and simplification of the tariff system therefore seems to be an imperative. Minister, are you considering a revision or reform of tariffs? If so, in what sense?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic634x.u32	Mrs Lambrecht, I do not intend to reform or revise tariffs in the short term. However, I am considering and studying an adjustment of the Royal Decree to achieve greater transparency and comprehensibility of the costs charged. This is in line with the draft law which was co-signed by your colleague Mr Bonte and presented and explained by you yesterday in committee. I share your concern for greater transparency around the costs charged, but I am not yet convinced that a legislative amendment is necessary. I have therefore commissioned a technical check to see whether a legislative amendment would be necessary. If so, I will be happy to support your legislative proposal, possibly amended. I am also looking forward to the written opinion that the committee has requested or will ask the National Chamber of Court Bailiffs. Reducing debt recovery costs is an important priority in my policy. The costs are ultimately borne by debtors who, apart from those who are negligently negligent, already have liquidity problems. The new procedure for recovering undisputed debts is an example of this. More than speeding up the recovery of undisputed debts, it reduces the costs for the debtor, as there are fewer interventions by the bailiff and thus lower costs. I hope to be able to discuss in committee this year the draft law on the modernisation of collective debt mediation. Here, thanks to the extensive digitisation of the work of the debt intermediary and the court, we must be able to reduce the costs borne by the debtor.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic634x.u33	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic634x.u34	Mr President, Minister, your rationalization plan for the country's justice system provides for the closure of a few seats (notably those serving as duplicates), the organization of joint registries in certain areas and, finally, the abolition of a few justices of peace. This third stage worries the judicial world and particularly appeals to me, in view of the future of the landscape of justice of peace in my region of Picardy Wallonia and especially that of Ath. Indeed, with this reform, this justice of peace will receive more litigants (it is still referred to as an additional 20%) and, therefore, if the means in terms of staff and infrastructure do not follow, risks causing judicial arrears. Two weeks ago, you answered the main questions on the reform of the justice system, but let me ask you further questions, Minister. Will the consequences of this reform be accompanied, for Ath's justice of peace, by additional means at her disposal so that she can best manage her local justice missions? Furthermore, what types of adaptation are envisaged for those who have difficulties in moving to municipalities that will lose their justice of peace? Finally, could you give me a more precise timetable for the actual move of the Kingdom's justices of peace?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic634x.u35	Mr Minister, my question is also about the rewriting of the judicial cantons and, more specifically, the peace courts, but it focuses on a peace court, on a smaller region in this whole. The aim of this reform was to increase efficiency and at the same time to allow a balanced distribution of the workload between the different cantons without the need for people to move much further. After all, a peace judge is still a real right of proximity, which is actually the case in the way in which he deals with a lot of things. A question which arises as a result of the redrawing for the Meise and Grimbergen cantons relates to the workload distribution. The peace court of Grimbergen was founded about fifteen years ago and would now be added back to the canton of Meise. It is also true that the municipality of Merchtem used to be with Asse and then came to Meise because of the reform as a whole. If one makes the addition of the number of inhabitants in the various regions of the Community, I think that this is one of the parameters, then one would go to some 114 000 inhabitants in a redrawing, with Grimbergen and Kapelle-op-den-Bos being added to Meise, while this would be a 74 000 for the canton of Asse. If the canton of Merchtem were to be added back to the Asse peace dish, as was the case in the past, a more balanced distribution could be achieved. In addition, it is a personal reflection that one also has a psychiatric center in Grimbergen, Saint-Alexius. I assume that there will be a greater number of provisional regimes than in municipalities where there is not such an institution. This also brings with it a serious workload, given the new legislation that we have adopted ourselves. We want to work much more tailor-made with this, which involves a great involvement of the peace court. One element that I was given, which I had not thought about, is that we are also in a peace canton where we are dealing with bilingualism, in the sense that we are a community of facilities. Of course, the justice of the peace is supposed to be completely bilingual. You are, Minister, but I do not know whether you would make judgments in French as quickly as in Dutch. That also brings with it some extra workload. From a certain chauvinism, but above all with a view to a good service for whom to use the services of a peace court, if I may put it that way, and a balanced distribution of the workload, is my question whether this can be considered? I therefore have the following questions, Minister. What criteria do you use to divide the workload between the cantons? Does the number of people play a role in this? Is there a target number of inhabitants per canton used? As part of the reform, will the composition of the municipalities which form a canton be reviewed with a view to achieving a better balance in terms of population? Are you considering placing the municipality of Merchtem in the canton of Asse?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic634x.u36	As regards the general statement on the justices of the peace plan, and in particular the third phase, including the timetable that is yet to follow, I would like to refer you to the detailed answer I gave two weeks ago in this committee. The main reason for this is that we are preparing a draft bill which will be submitted to your committee at the appropriate time, because the cantons' borders need to be changed in the annex to the Judicial Code. We are currently only in the announcement phase. I think that in that committee a few weeks ago I explained sufficiently what criteria were taken into account and that the population figure was not the only one but only one of the six criteria. Of course it plays a role but it does not always give a correct representation of the workload. You know that. As I said, the intention is not to save money or to increase the distance with the citizens. On the contrary, the intention is to allocate available resources more efficiently. This also means that justices of the peace, whose workload is currently lower, will indeed be allocated here and there a larger territory or that the boundaries of the canton will move in order to follow a certain sociological logic. This exercise was carried out for Hainaut and therefore for Ath and Fontaine-l'Évêque. The closure of the justice system will free resources and staff. My administration is discussing with the appropriate president where the needs are greatest. Of course, when possible, consideration will be given to the wishes of the staff themselves. As far as mobility is concerned, each municipality does not have its own justice of peace. People are already forced to move. It must be borne in mind that it is rare on average for citizens to go to justice of peace. Finally, I would like to point out that, in some places, hearings "under the tree" will be scheduled, in order to meet some of their concerns as well. The concept of "under the tree" is defined in the draft law pot-pourri V, whose amendments, inter alia, on "under the tree" will be submitted to the Council of State for consideration. Mrs Becq, on your specific question of transferring Merchtem from the Canton of Meise to the Canton of Asse. During the third phase, the composition of the municipalities was indeed reviewed. I have recently received a specific opinion on this subject, in particular on Asse, Meise and Merchtem from the chairman of the Dutch-speaking court of first instance in Brussels, who, as you know, is the Dutch-speaking chairman of the peace judges. The question is currently being examined.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic634x.u37	Mr President, thank you for that answer. I hear that staff may be moved to other places. I asked you about the specific case of Ath. You did not answer exactly, but you leave a door open, and I thank you for that. I simply ask you to take into consideration this justice which seems to have very real needs.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic634x.u38	Mr President, I would like to thank the Minister for his reply. Do I understand correctly that the question of the Canton of Meise and the recast is supported by the chairman of that group of peace judges? I therefore hope, Minister, that you will take a favourable decision.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic634x.u39	Mr President, Minister, in 2005, Belgium committed itself to signing and ratifying the Optional Protocol to the United Nations Convention against Torture (OPCAT), through its resolution adopted on 20 July 2011. It thus listened to the international community, which urged it to do so. The protocol was established as part of the fight against torture and inhuman and/or degrading treatment in places of deprivation of liberty. In particular, OPCAT provides that all States that have ratified this Protocol shall establish a National Mechanism for the Prevention of Torture (MNP) whose requirements and conditions shall be respected. It should be noted that Belgium has already been visited by the European Committee for the Prevention of Torture of the Council of Europe (CPT) and has been lobbied for numerous violations of fundamental rights in places of deprivation of liberty. On 24 October 2005, Belgium signed the Convention. But to date, it has not ratified it, which has given it a call to order by the United Nations Human Rights Committee during its universal periodic review. Belgium is lagging behind! A number of other practical problems arise. In particular, on the application of the law of 25 December 2016 amending the legal status of detainees and the supervision of prisons. First, the law confines itself to organizing supervision of prisons only. However, the United Nations Paris Principles require that this field of application be extended to all places of deprivation of liberty, since inhuman and/or degrading treatment does not only take place in prison. Questions also arise about the Central Supervisory Board. As a reminder, the task of this body is to monitor the treatment of persons detained in relation to the relevant requirements. In other words, it is an external control independent of the prison administration. With regard to this Central Supervisory Board, questions arise in terms of budget and competence. I would therefore like to ask you the following questions. Does the Chamber intend to follow up on the above-mentioned resolution in order to ratify OPCAT? If so, do you have any idea the timing? Will Belgium comply with its international commitments by providing for monitoring of all places of deprivation of liberty? If so, within what time frame? Will the Central Prison Supervision Board also be competent for other places of deprivation of liberty under federal authority, such as police stations? Consider, in the more or less long term, whether it is also through the conclusion of cooperation agreements for places of detention depending on the other levels of power, e.g. closed centres for juvenile offenders, public institutions for the protection of young people, etc.- Is that what you're saying? If so, again, within what time frame? What is the budget envisaged by the Central Supervisory Board? What about the one proposed by the House? Finally, how will the recruitment of the new members of the Central Council be organised? Will current members be able to re-apply?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic634x.u40	Mr. Vanden Burre, the federal government is currently preparing the legislative package for ratification of the Optional Protocol to the Convention against Torture. This protocol has already been the subject of standards of consent adopted by the various federated entities. The legislative dossier for the adoption of a law of assent is currently being prepared at the level of the Government and is expected to be submitted to the Committee of Ministers for approval shortly before being submitted to the Council of State for its opinion and subsequently forwarded to the House. The Protocol requires the State to establish a competent National Torture Prevention Mechanism to monitor the treatment of persons deprived of their liberty in all places of deprivation of liberty. The establishment of the National Preventive Mechanism will have to precede ratification. The pot-pourri IV law of 25 December 2016 strengthens the Central Prison Supervisory Board by transferring it to parliament. In order to guarantee the independence of this council, the competence remains solely with regard to the monitoring of conditions of detention in prisons. The mechanism must cover all places of deprivation of liberty covering institutions under both federal and federal jurisdiction. The establishment of the national preventive mechanism will therefore require the adoption of a cooperation agreement or other legal norm. Other institutions currently having competence to monitor deprivation of liberty, such as the College of Federal Ombudsmen, Myria, etc., will play a role in the future establishment of a national mechanism for deprivation of liberty. To date, the building blocks of the national preventive mechanism have not yet been finalized, such as the form of the mechanism or its place in the Belgian institutional structure. With regard to your question on the Council's budget, I refer to Article 126 of the potpourri IV Act, which provides that the House of Representatives shall fix the remuneration of the members of the bureau and the allowance of the members of the Central Council and of the members of the committees. An allocation will be included in the General State Expenditure Budget to finance the operation of the Central Council and the Supervisory Commissions. Pursuant to Article 122 of the same Law pot-pourri IV, the Central Council is composed of twelve members and an equivalent number of alternates who are appointed and dismissed by the House of Representatives. The law does not preclude former members of the Council from applying.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic634x.u41	Minister, thank you for this long and detailed answer. Of course, I will read the text in order to be able to analyse it in depth. I take positive note of Parliament's forthcoming ratification of the Protocol.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic634x.u42	Question No 17451 by Mrs Vanheste is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic634x.u43	Mr. Chair, Minister, we have recently had the opportunity to examine considerations that would have been held by some judges who shared their experience and sometimes some pitfalls encountered. We have, of course, seen judges who may have put more theatricality into presenting things than others. I am thinking, for example, of an investigating judge who complained that, for lack of resources, it had not been possible for him to carry out a rogatory commission which could have led to the seizure of certain accounts opened abroad; from memory, I think it was in Shanghai. This may merit further questioning by the investigating judge, who has been confronted, in a somewhat frustrating way, with a passivity due to budgetary reasons. Such considerations are, of course, very important, because he was talking about millions that were easily seizable and which, as a result, would have escaped the public treasury. I was particularly surprised by this, considering that if at some point it had failed to provide resources for a budgetary year, it might have been possible to postpone this rogatory exercise to the following year. Surprisingly, and wanting to ask you the question before moving further on this eventuality that would be taken into account in the recommendations that will be made in the coming months, I wanted to ask you the following questions. Do you confirm that? Are you aware of any other similar facts? If so, do you have any statistics to inform the Special Committee on the number of letters rogatory which have been refused for budgetary reasons in the last five years?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic634x.u44	Mr Scourneau, in relation to the statement made by the investigating judge, I need more details about the case in order to be able to check with my services. After a first quick examination by my administration, I was confirmed that she was not aware of such a case. In addition, I would point out that, although I am attentive to the cost of letters rogatory, I am not aware of the fact that there have already been refusals for budgetary reasons. There are sometimes discussions about the presence of the clerk of the investigating judge, the presence of police officers or the prosecutor's office at the same time as that of the investigating judge, but this does not result in a refusal to execute the rogatory commission outright. This subject is regulated by a circular dated 1 October 2013. The latter provides that if the estimated costs remain below the €2,500 threshold, the authorization will be given by the Attorney General or the Federal Prosecutor. If they exceed this amount, authorization will be given by the FPS Justice, with the advice of the federal prosecutor or the Attorney General. This opinion concerns in the first place the interest of the rogatory commission in relation to the current case.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic634x.u45	Minister, this is an answer that I think is quite clear, objective and panoramic about all the boroughs. I imagine that we will be able to take this into account in a pragmatic way in the course of the recommendations that will be made.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic634x.u46	Questions Nos 17491, 17492, 17493 and 17494 by Mrs Kristien Van Vaerenbergh are transformed into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic634x.u47	Minister, serious and challenging events took place in Antwerp on Thursday, March 23rd, which brought to mind a potential new attack on our soil. I will briefly recall the facts. I also asked your colleague Jan Jambon in the Committee on the Interior yesterday, because it concerns your powers and his powers. Last Thursday at 10:45 a.m., a French-registered Citroen break car drew the attention of a military patrol travelling on the Meir in Antwerp. The vehicle moves at all speeds, forcing pedestrians to step aside so as not to be affected. The military is trying to intercept the car without success. The local police in Antwerp finally managed to immobilize the vehicle on the Sint-Michielskaai, more or less 1.5 km further. Under the influence of alcohol or drugs, the driver will not oppose resistance. Man is known in France in cases of carrying prohibited weapons, but is not reported for terrorism or radicalization. In the trunk of his vehicle, the deminers then discover a riot gun, several white weapons and a can containing a product still to be analysed. At 1:30 p.m., the mayor of Antwerp, also president of the N-VA, called the media to keep them informed of the police intervention on the Meir earlier in the day. He did not hesitate to speak of a "fouled attack" to evoke the facts. The Federal Public Prosecutor's Office had, however, advised him not to speak because he did not have enough information. Moreover, the Federal Public Prosecutor's Office was still concerned that possible accomplices of the arrested man (Mohamed R.), take advantage of it to disappear in nature or, worse, act in haste, like the suicide bombers of 22 March 2016. The security services apparently did everything they could to dissuade Mr. De Wever to speak, up to ten minutes before his presentation to the press. They felt that it was far too dangerous, in the interests of public safety. But the mayor of Antwerp overstepped these opinions and held his press conference. The following day, the suspect, who had been arrested, was interviewed in the morning by an Antwerp investigating judge. He would not have explained his behaviour. According to reports in the press, this man was under the influence of alcohol, also appearing to be a regular drug user. He made no claims and would deny even having been on the scene on Thursday morning. A search was conducted at his home but did not allow investigators to link the events to any terrorist threat. The man was ultimately charged with attempted terrorist assassination, attempted terrorist assault and infraction of the arms legislation. Nevertheless, the Federal Public Prosecutor's Office confirms that there is no indication that this person has engaged in the Meir shopping street with the intention of mowing pedestrians. I quote Eric Van Der Sypt, spokesman for the Federal Prosecutor's Office: "For the moment, this terrorist attack has not been confirmed at all." So I wanted to ask you the same questions I asked the Minister of the Interior. What are the latest updated information on this folder that you can provide us with? What directives do the mayors have to follow in this kind of situation? Do they have an obligation to follow the prosecutor's recommendations in terms of communication to the general public? Here, it is clear that the mayor of Antwerp did not take into account the recommendations of the prosecutor's office. This raises questions in terms of guidelines. What are they? What are the uses? We can question ourselves by always having in mind the idea of as optimal a communication as possible in the field of public safety and that of our fellow citizens. Do you agree with the attitude of the mayor of Antwerp, Bart De Wever, who communicated against the opinion of the prosecutor's office and the competent authorities when not all the elements were known? Do you approve of such a communication with any impact it might have had on safety and public order? Do you intend to talk to him about these events or have you ever done so? If so, what has emerged?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic634x.u48	Mr Vanden Burre, I cannot give details of the facts themselves, since the investigation is still under way. With the agreement of the Federal Public Prosecutor's Office, however, additional elements may be provided in relation to what was previously reported. At 1055 hours, the driver of the vehicle, Mohamed R., was stopped at the Saint-Michiels wharf without resistance. During his arrest, a Riot Gun rifle, unarmed and unarmed, an Airsoft gun, various white weapons and a box with unknown contents were discovered. The individual was clearly under the influence of alcohol and narcotics. Mohamed R. is not known to Belgian services or French services for radicalisation or acts of terrorism. He was, on the other hand, known to the French police for acts of violence, drugs and possession of prohibited weapons. After an analysis of all the elements, the OCAM could not conclude that this was a terrorist incident. OCAM also did not see any justification for adapting existing threat levels. As far as the role of the Federal Public Prosecutor's Office is concerned, I can confirm that he federated the case around 1:00 p.m., after telephone contacts with the local Public Prosecutor's Office. The investigating judge was brought before him later in the afternoon. On the basis of Article 28quinquies, § 3 of the Code of Criminal Investigation and Circular 7/99 of the College of Public Prosecutors and in accordance with the COL of the College of Public Prosecutors, the Prosecutor's Office, through its spokesman, explicitly requested the local police not to communicate. The Federal Public Prosecutor's Office states that, according to the rules in force, this was indeed a prohibition on disclosure which could, if any, constitute a breach of professional secrecy. With regard to the mayor, the Federal Prosecutor's Office informed his spokesman that there could be no communication on matters relating to investigation and that, in the light of that, a press conference was to be discouraged. The prosecutor's office cannot, of course, prohibit the mayor from holding a press conference on matters relating to public order. At 1.50 p.m., the Federal Public Prosecutor's Office received a message from the local police spokesman indicating that a press conference would be held. At 2:02 p.m., the Federal Public Prosecutor's Office, in an interview with the mayor's spokesman, again advised him not to communicate. At 1418 hours, the Federal Public Prosecutor's Office finally received a text from the local police spokesman, indicating that the press conference would begin. Meanwhile, the spokesman for the Federal Public Prosecutor's Office made several contacts with his colleague from the local prosecutor's office in Antwerp, who confirmed that she had also explicitly asked the local police not to communicate. While the file had been federalized, and the federal prosecutor's office had prohibited the local police from communicating, the local police again contacted the local prosecutor's office to consult on a file that was no longer within their jurisdiction. Neither the Federal Public Prosecutor's Office nor the local Public Prosecutor's Office gave their prior consent to the press conference. Communication is always very sensitive in such cases. On the one hand, the first hours are crucial in a judicial case. On the other hand, the information that is communicated to the population through the press must be accurate. At the time of the communication, Mohamed R.'s intentions were not yet clear, and it was therefore difficult to estimate the exact nature of the incident. There are recent precedents, including the stabbing attack in Charleroi on 6 August last year, in which two police officers were injured, and the communication took place only the day after the incident. The Federal Public Prosecutor's Office notes that too quickly reacting may reveal crucial information to a possible terrorist organization, such as information about the arrest of a single person when it is possible that it may be more than one, or about the interception of a vehicle when several vehicles may be involved. Mohamed R. was indicted on Friday by the investigating judge for attempted terrorist murder, attempted terrorist assault and breach of arms legislation. He was placed under arrest. On 28 March, that is, yesterday, he appeared before the Chamber of Counsel, where his arrest was confirmed under the same charges. At the hearing, the Federal Public Prosecutor's Office had requested an extension of the arrest solely on the basis of offences under the arms legislation. In the meantime, the accused has appealed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic634x.u49	Mr Minister, I thank you for this detailed answer, much more than your colleague from the Interior yesterday. Frankly, I can only surprise myself once again and take note of your remarks. In summary, the mayor of Antwerp - Bart De Wever - against the opinion of the OCAM (which did not conclude a terrorist act) and against the opinions of the public prosecutors (local and federal), holds a press conference where he explicitly says that it was a foiled attack - and I can understand that on the events around the Meir, a mayor communicates with regard to public security and panic in the population. An explicit link is made to terrorism and the disastrous impact of panic among the population is well known. Again, against the opinions of all the competent bodies, against the opinion of the entire judiciary and the OCAM, Bart De Wever does nothing but his media show - I cannot say otherwise - for what reason. You don't condemn her communication, but I'll do it for you. This is unacceptable! We cannot break all the rules and recommendations, as if nothing were happening. We know the context in which we bathe. We are one day after the commemoration of the March 22 attacks. I really don't know what went through Bart De Wever's head to make such communication, such strength building, probably wanting to play the sheriff but it's totally unacceptable and inappropriate! I was telling your colleague from the Interior that if it had been another mayor of another municipality - at random, Brussels - I think the reactions of the Minister of the Interior and the Minister of Justice would have been different. If I take note of the details of your response, it seems clear to me that a stronger condemnation would have been in good form on the fact that, at this point, all the recommendations of all the country's security and justice services had been ignored.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic634x.u50	Mr President, Minister, I come back to a question I asked you on January 11. In the Royal Decree published in the Monitor of 30 December 2016, I found that the amount of the Belgian contribution to Interpol of 748 991 euros was paid into an account opened at HSBC bank. I reminded you at the time that this bank was threatened in France in one of the most important cases of tax evasion in recent years. This amounts to billions of euros. I reminded you, but it was not necessary either, of Interpol's role in combating financial crime, which is clearly stated on its website. I was surprised that HSBC was entrusted with the management of the funds necessary for the operation of Interpol. As part of your response on 11 January 2017, you committed yourself to this: "For your questions concerning Interpol and Eurojust, I will bring them to the attention of our representatives at the governing bodies of these organisations so that they can collect, as far as possible, the requested clarifications". I promised to ask you again, what I'm doing. Minister, what is the result of your consultation with our representatives at Interpol's governing bodies? Do you not think, with me, that the main police cooperation body in Europe has as its banking operator an establishment too regularly cited in cases of money laundering and tax fraud, namely HSBC? What are the criteria used by Interpol to choose its banking operator? Are there standards of good repute and ethics? Has a blacklist of banks involved in tax fraud or money laundering been established? What about the other international organisations in which Belgium is involved, such as Eurojust? Finally, could Belgium, through its representatives in Interpol, put this question on the table and suggest to the leaders of Interpol the choice of a more coherent banking operator with its own objectives in the fight against financial crime?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic634x.u51	Mr President, Mr Gilkinet, I confirm that contacts have been made with Interpol and Eurojust. As far as Eurojust is concerned, this European agency does not have an account at HSBC. The choice of banking institutions used by Eurojust stems from a decision of the European Commission based on a specific evaluation carried out in accordance with the Financial Regulation. As far as Interpol is concerned, the police cooperation organisation informs us that it also selects its contractors on the basis of a financial regulation which provides that the Secretary-General shall ensure that deposits or investments are made with banks which offer guarantees of morality and reputation. HSBC was selected in 2007 on the basis of this regulation and after competition. Interpol followed the HSBC situation and a due diligence officer carried out a detailed assessment. Interpol stresses, however, that, according to its information, the HSBC investigation has not yet reached a conclusion. As for your request regarding the use of a black list of banks involved in tax fraud or money laundering, Interpol recalls that it works with 190 countries that contribute to its budget. Interpol therefore makes payments to suppliers in most of these countries to carry out its tasks, as required by the General Assembly. Some of these countries are only targeted by a limited number of banks. In order to best serve its members, Interpol must ensure that all countries have the same level of access to its services and activities.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic634x.u52	Minister, I see that few banks in the world are capable of allowing payments in so many countries. I also understand that in 2007 an assessment was carried out and that it brought all the reassuring elements to Interpol. But pretending that HSBC is a bank today above suspicion or that we cannot act as long as the investigation that concerns it has not been successful is a little weak in my view. You could testify to Interpol that in Belgium, for example, in the case of diamond files, it is thanks to files from HSBC, via a whistleblower, that we have been able to identify facts of tax fraud or money laundering. I think Interpol should be more an example in the selection of its banking operator. I know that it is not only up to Belgium to decide this, but I ask you to come back to the burden, via our representatives at Interpol, and to plead for a new evaluation of this banking partnership because it is a bad signal that is given. I will try to mobilize other environmental parliamentarians in other countries on this issue because it seems to me symbolically significant and important.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-29-54-commissie-ic634x.u53	Question No 17378 by Mr Dirk Van der Maelen is postponed. Questions Nos 17155 and 17156 by Mrs Karine Lalieux, question No 17547 by Mr Koen Metsu, question No 17563 by Mrs Kristien Van Vaerenbergh and question No 17564 by Mr Philippe Goffin are transformed into written questions.
