ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic655x.u1	We'll start. The minister is here, as well as a few colleagues. Mrs Grovonius has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic655x.u2	Minister, since December 2016, SNCB has aligned the opening hours of the Public Lobby of the Andenne-Seilles station with the opening hours of the windows, from 6:00 a.m. to 13:15 a.m. on weekdays and from 7:15 a.m. to 10:30 a.m. on weekends. This action was taken following the departure of Infrabel's personnel from the signalling booth, which provided for the opening and closing of the no-lost room. It has not been coordinated with the municipal authorities in any way. The municipality of Andenne wrote to you about this on February 27. You would have told them that you had asked SNCB not to change the opening hours of a station until you had found a solution to keep access to the waiting room, in agreement with the local actors. Mr Minister, I would therefore like to ask you about this point. Do you intend to enter into a dialogue with the municipality of Andenne on this matter? And if so, on what schedule? How do you justify that the train station in Andenne does not enjoy the same treatment as a station in the same category, namely 10,000 passengers a week, such as the Ciney train station?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic655x.u3	Dear colleague, in the Andenne-Seilles dossier, as in other dossiers on the same subject, I have asked SNCB to analyse various tracks in order to be able to extend the opening beaches of the rooms of the not lost outside the opening hours of the windows. The local representatives of SNCB, direction Station, will meet the mayor of Andenne on May 12. The purpose of the meeting is to define the modalities of the collaboration between SNCB and the city in order to allow the accessibility of the station's waiting room beyond the opening hours of the windows, as it could be organized at other stations where a similar situation was known.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic655x.u4	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic655x.u5	Minister, Infrabel's investments have been reduced compared to the 2016-2020 plan. One of the very concrete consequences of this measure is the cessation of plans to abolish crossings and the creation, in parallel, of bridges and tunnels allowing easier mobility. In Tournai, the project to create a tunnel under the railway lines, at the road level of Allain in Ramegnies-Chin, to replace the crossing, was stopped. Minister, if the budgetary aspect forces Infrabel to revise these projects downwards, on what criteria did the infrastructure manager of the railway network choose to maintain certain works rather than others in the field of tunnel or bridge construction? When will the project to build the tunnel under the tracks at rue d'Allain be rerouted? Thank you in advance for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic655x.u6	Colleagues, Infrabel informs me that with regard to the construction of a tunnel below line 75A at Allain Street in Ramegnies-Chin, the budgetary context requires Infrabel to make certain choices regarding these investments. Infrabel, as infrastructure manager, reviews and selects investment projects based on the safe operation of the rail network, the punctuality of trains and, finally, the capacity extensions of the network. Although the investment had to be postponed, Infrabel assures me that the construction of equipment allowing the abolition of level crossings will remain in the new multi-year investment plan, certainly a major concern.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic655x.u7	Minister, I would like to ask you regularly about the access of the PMRs to the station in Tournai. In June 2016, you explained that, for reasons of accessibility, the stations will have to see their docks upgraded. You told me that SNCB had opted for the standardization of dock edges at 76 cm. However, for technical reasons, these edges were tolerated at a height of 55 cm in specific cases. Minister, could you tell me what the height of the docks at Tournai station is right now? Does it meet the standard you set yourself? If not, will enhancement work be planned in the short or medium term?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic655x.u8	Ladies and gentlemen, the station in Tournai currently has low docks at the edge of 28 cm. This is the case for the vast majority of stations and stop points in Belgium. In order to facilitate the embarkation and disembarkation of passengers, SNCB, a dock manager, opted for the standardization of dock edges at 76 cm. However, for technical reasons, 55 cm dock edges are tolerated in specific cases, for example in order not to bury an existing station building. I would remind you that SNCB is piloting applications for investments in stations that affect customer service and is giving priority in its investment plan project to projects that improve the traveller's comfort, including the upgrading of the docks. Infrabel remains legally responsible for any investment in the structure of the wharfs and is therefore responsible for the execution of the structures of the wharf upgrades requested by SNCB. SNCB also remains responsible for the coating, equipment and remediation of the wharfs that form part of this work. Currently, SNCB is finalising with Infrabel the choice of stations, where the upgrade will take place in the next investment plan.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic655x.u9	Minister, both in the first question and in the first question, I answered from the outset that I was happy; as much here, I have a reflection with choices...
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic655x.u10	I don't have the specifics.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic655x.u11	In this case, I will come back later in order to obtain more information on this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic655x.u12	Minister, the transition to a more sustainable society that takes into account climate, environmental and public health issues requires a change in our transportation habits. The responsibility of the public authorities in this challenge is undeniable, since it is up to them to organise and promote alternatives to private cars. In this context, state aid for company cars is becoming less and less sustainable. It should be directed directly towards sustainable transport. However, the mobility budget announced by the government does not seem to meet these requirements at all, as it offers no guarantee that the means will be allocated to sustainable transport. This is the observation made by the social partners, employers and trade unions that the mobility budget must be used primarily for mobility and cannot be limited to the granting of a net amount of tax and contribution to the worker against the abandonment of the company car. This opinion follows the interprofessional agreement approved by the government. Moreover, the Council of State has been very clear: to remove the conditions for the grant, use and purpose of an advantage treated differently from a fiscal and/or social point of view is "problematic with regard to the constitutional principle of equality". Could you take another look at this case? Will you respect the unanimous opinion of the social partners? Finally, how will you guarantee the equal treatment of our citizens?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic655x.u13	Minister, Mr Devin has outlined the context. On 7 April, both the NAR and the CRB issued a unanimous opinion on the mobility budget, which can be granted as an alternative to workers who are not entitled to a company car. It is also important that the social partners pay a great deal of attention in their text to a sustainable mobility policy, which they put forward as a priority, given the problem of congestion. The opinion divides the mobility budget into four components. A proposal is made for each component in the context of fiscal and parafiscal treatment. A first part shall be spent, where appropriate, on a company car. A second part is spent on public transport and/or bicycle subscriptions. A third part shall be devoted to other sustainable and shared transport modes and services. The fourth part is not spent. What is your view on the unanimous opinion of the social partners on the mobility budget? Do you agree with the concern of the social partners that transposition should be part of a sustainable mobility policy? Will the government implement the unanimous opinion, which is part of IPA, in its entirety?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic655x.u14	I have taken note of the advice of the social partners. I share their concern to draw up a mobility budget. This would be part of an integrated policy on sustainable mobility. However, the modalities of the mobility budget still need to be determined. At the initiative of my colleague from Finance, a study was carried out, with the aim of establishing a regulatory framework to compensate the company car, in whole or in part, by a cash amount to be allocated in particular to means of transport. This will contribute to the increase in household purchasing power. A working group is currently considering this issue. I would therefore refer you to my colleague in the finance department if you would like to know more about the content and the state of the study.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic655x.u15	Minister, thank you. You're sending us back to the Minister of Finance. But I am speaking here to the Minister of Mobility.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic655x.u16	It's a Finance decision.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic655x.u17	Will there be nothing else? You, as Minister in charge of Mobility, what do you think?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic655x.u18	I refer you to the Minister of Finance who will be able to present the study, with all the aspects related to the replacement of the company car by the mobility allowance.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic655x.u19	Minister, I am doing everything I can to make your voice heard on the record. Understand that I am at your side to ensure that mobility is properly supported, also by the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic655x.u20	Minister, as a courtesy I thank you for your answer, that there was no such thing, even if I could have expected it. As mobility is too important, however, every citizen is faced with still traffic and with its economic costs, you should not just leave that to the Minister of Finance, with which I do not judge that minister in any way. After all, the impact of the dossier is very large. That is why I have addressed my questions to you as Minister for Mobility. By the way, in other files, for example on speed pedals, I asked questions to you and also to the Minister of Finance. But the latter replied that he did have a note with a calculation, which was also discussed in the interkabinets working group, but that I did not get it. The same thing is happening here: studies and proposals are discussed about the mobility budget in an inter-kabinets working group. I assume that the Minister for Mobility is taking part in that debate and is indicating how resources for mobility are being used, especially because there is a turning point in civil society thinking about sustainability in mobility. I hope, Minister, that you will take a more active stance on the dossier than you have suggested with the answer you gave today.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic655x.u21	Madam President, Minister, on 21 March last, the United Kingdom and the United States announced their intention to ban certain electronic devices on certain flights from countries in North Africa and the Near East. The regulations issued by the two countries differ according to the size and nature of the objects concerned, as well as according to the countries and companies concerned. In particular, the US government argued that it was concerned about "the continued interest of terrorists in targeting commercial aviation". For their part, and this is in the interest of my question, Brussels Airport, as well as regional airports, regularly receive flights from countries covered either by the new United States regulation or by the one issued by Great Britain or both. Today, this raises even more questions because, since mid-April, this incomprehensible measure could be extended to certain European countries or companies, which could harm their citizens and companies wishing to trade with the United States. In the press, some experts doubt very strongly the relevance of the measure and the credibility of the threat. Minister, are you considering such measures at the national level? This question, while legal, is as much about efficiency as it is about opportunity. Initially, I had addressed my question to the Minister of the Interior, but it was redirected to you. I would therefore like to ask you, minister, and I look forward to your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic655x.u22	Colleagues, following the recent decision by the United States and the United Kingdom to ban large electronics in hand luggage on a number of flights, the Air Transport Directorate-General of the Mobility FPS, in its capacity as the competent authority, has adopted the following position. This position was defined after consultation with the Belgian authorities concerned and in consultation with the Member States of the European Union, during an aviation safety meeting convened exceptionally with the European Commission and the European External Action Service. In view of the aviation security measures already in place and the information currently available in relation to the threat level, three things have been decided: no additional measures will be taken today in the area of aviation security; laptops and other large electronic devices will continue to be carried out in hand luggage, which is in full compliance with the International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO) international recommendations, which do not recommend a significant concentration of batteries in hold baggage for security reasons; the situation will be monitored on a continuous basis and further action will be taken if the risk assessments reveal the need for such measures. In theory, it is possible to ban large electronic devices in hand luggage from certain destinations at national level and outside the European framework, but this can have a significant diplomatic and economic impact. In addition, the requirement to carry out an on-the-spot verification of an imposed ban in the countries concerned is not easy to organize, particularly on cabotage flights in our country.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic655x.u23	Thank you, Minister, and I welcome the common sense of the Belgian and European authorities in their decision-making.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic655x.u24	Madam President, Minister, this is a short but, to my mind, important question. During the attacks of 22 March last year, the station Brussels-Central was evacuated. Then it became painfully clear that the counter-terrorism plans for Brussels stations are much needed. Firstly, what procedures does SNCB have in the event of a bombing in Brussels stations? Secondly, to what extent were the procedures discussed with the parties concerned? Which parties and competent services have already discussed this? If there have been procedures since 22 March, when have they been in operation?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic655x.u25	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, in the event of a bombing, the existing fire prevention legislation procedures will come into force. In this case, SNCB's staff will have to comply with the orders of the competent officer of the administrative police or fire department. In the event of a bombing, internal emergency planning will also be activated. A federal phase is announced in accordance with the Royal Decree of 1 May 2016 establishing the national emergency plan to deal with a terrorist hostage situation or attack. The measures to be taken in the context of the re-evaluation of the threat shall be continuously prepared. In the context of the designation of its critical infrastructure, SNCB says that the situation on certain sites is currently being analysed. However, given the confidentiality of this dossier, I cannot provide any further information on these drafts. In the context of fire prevention there is consultation with the fire department. The emergency planning for the entire railway domain is always aligned with Infrabel. In the context of tackling the phenomena of terrorism and radicalisation, SNCB is in contact with all parties in the security debate, such as the OCAD, the Crisis Centre and the FoD Mobility. The National Railway Security Authority is an appropriate platform for this. Following incidents, such as bomb notifications or suspicious packages, with a major impact, feedback and consultation is orchestrated with all parties involved and exercises are organised.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic655x.u26	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. I'm distracting two or maybe three things from your answer. First of all, you refer to the general plans and procedures of the fire department and the security services. You also point out that people from the railways must comply with the orders of the officers of the administrative police. Secondly, you refer to a number of measures currently being analysed. You are hiding behind the confidentiality of these documents. I did not ask for its content, but I did ask for a state of affairs. The bombings date from 22 March 2016. Well, 15 months have not yet, as I understand it, put in place any specific measures or procedures to keep this under control. It's a shame you're hiding behind confidentiality. After all, I would have liked an update on the follow-up to the new measures to be taken in the area of station security. I will continue to press for at least a state of affairs. I will, of course, continue to insist on having proper anti-terrorist plans for all stations in Brussels as soon as possible. On this point, Minister, I urge you to have clear anti-terrorist plans for all Brussels stations as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic655x.u27	Mr President, first of all I would like to ask you a number of questions on the issue of the re-use of the Iron Rhine, but I would also like to take advantage of the opportunity to remind you that, in connection with the dossier, an important study has been carried out on behalf of the Intercommunal Development Company for the Kempen (IOK) in the light of mitigating measures when the historic route was to be put back into operation. The railway lines 15 Lier-Mol and 19 Mol-Neerpelt are part of the historic route, the IJzeren Rijn. Flanders has been arguing for years for a reactivation of that route as a freight link between the Antwerp port and the Ruhr area. As a function of this reactivation and as a function of updating the file, the IOK carried out that study a number of years ago at the request of many Kempense municipalities located on the railway line in order to be able to proactively mitigate measures in function of that reactivation and also to solve the mobility problems in village cores of, among others, Yellow and Herentals through slot formation, sound screens and tunnels. In this way we do not want to burden mobility in the village centres more heavily because of the still traffic when the railway cars stand in front of longer goe-deren trains. These measures were unanimously accepted by the entire region and the management of the IOC. They're worried about Flanders and the federal government. Flanders has also recognised this study. As a relatively recent Minister for Mobility, I would like to ask you to link the dossier of the mitigating measures to the paper on the re-use of the Iron Rhine. That is why, Minister, I would like to ask you the following questions. What is the current state of play on the reactivation of the Iron Rhine? In view of the budgetary situation and the reactivation of the Iron Rhine, what measures will you select to mitigate the consequences for the municipalities on the historic route? Can you confirm that the chosen mitigating measures will be part of the Iron Rhine file?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic655x.u28	Ladies and gentlemen, I can tell you that there is currently a study on the reactivation of the Iron Rhine and the possible alternatives to the route, the so-called 3RX study. This study is carried out by the consortium ART Ecorail on the initiative of the Flemish Region and with the full cooperation of my policy cell and my administration. In addition to the Flemish and Belgian Federal levels, the steering committee consists of representatives of the Netherlands, the German Federal Government and North Rhine-Westphalia. The European Commission is contributing to funding. The study includes a social cost-benefit analysis for the possible different routes. The effects on the various municipalities along the Iron Rhine are discussed in terms of noise, vibration, safety, fauna and flora, and social effects such as fragmentation of village cores. The necessary and desired mitigating measures are described with their technical feasibility and associated cost. The proposed measures are: noise shields, increased verges, groundwater protection, low vibration rail structures and ecoducts. The reactivation of the Iron Rhine and the choice of the route will take account of mitigating measures. Awaiting a final decision, no specific measures can yet be laid down.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic655x.u29	Minister, I am pleased to hear that mitigating measures are taken into account in any case in the conditions of the reactivation dossier. The thrust of my question was also not to lose sight of that. The file of the IOK from a few years ago and the ongoing study in part commissioned by the Flemish Region should be taken as the basis for a reactivation.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic655x.u30	Minister, I would like to ask you about access to the stations in Walloon Brabant, especially to people with reduced mobility. At the time of the presentation of the 2017-2020 transport plan, it turned out that at present no station in Walloon Brabant has permanent access for people with reduced mobility (PMR). Therefore, Minister, I would like to ask you the following questions. Work will be carried out at several stations in the Walloon Brabant in the months and years to come. I am thinking in particular of the station of Ottignies, of Rixensart or even of Braine-I'Alleud. Can you tell me if permanent access to PMRs will be provided? Do you find it normal that on the 10 stations and 18 stops on the territory of Walloon Brabant, only four stations allow people with reduced mobility to request assistance 24 hours prior to their travel? Do you therefore intend to remedy this situation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic655x.u31	My colleague, as part of the discussions on the development of the future management contract for SNCB, the criteria for ensuring that a station or stop point is in line with the accessibility of the RMPs are as follows: first, all docks have a height of 55 or 76 centimetres; second, all docks are accessible directly through the public space, via the station buildings or via a CSV or a bridge equipped with an elevator or RMP ramps; third, all docks are equipped with guide lines, podotactile paths; and fourth, there is at least one accessible ticket sales machine. On the basis of these criteria, the province of Walloon Brabant does not have an unguarded station or stop point that meets these four criteria simultaneously. SNCB undertakes, through its management contract, to improve the accessibility of stations for PMRs during the construction or renovation of stations and stop points. The accessibility of RMPs is always taken into account in order to ensure that the facilities meet the minimum standards and obligations in force, regardless of the importance of the station in terms of use. With regard to the number of stations accessible to PMRs by reservation 24 hours in advance, SNCB informs me that it has determined the stations where the management of PMRs is organised, not by province but by considering the entire network. The selection was made taking into account the importance of passenger flows and therefore the number of PMRs actually making use of this service. Other tracks are currently under consideration to equip, as a pilot project, certain stations to facilitate accessibility for people with reduced mobility. It is clear that during the modernization of the Ottignies station, all technical arrangements will be made for adaptation to the PMRs. Whether the station is small or large, when there are works, we adapt!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic655x.u32	Minister, thank you for your answers. I dare imagine that when work is done at stations, it is taken into account. I am more concerned when I hear that on 28 points (18 points and 10 stations), there are only 4 points that are actually accessible. I hear we're studying, but we're not really doing anything about it. Things can be improved in some stations and I ask that this be one of your priorities for future investments in stations and stops in Walloon Brabant.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic655x.u33	Minister, the students of the superior resident of the Picardy Wallonia and residing in Brussels or Louvain-la-Neuve during the week must at the present time arm themselves with patience when they take the train on Sunday evening to join their student accommodation. I am thinking in particular of the Mouscronnois and the Tournaises who, if they want to go to Etterbeek or Louvain-la-Neuve on Sunday evening, have to take two to three matches, which lengthens the journey time. To take a concrete example, the Moscronese student who has to travel to Louvain-la-Neuve on Sundays must make a trip of almost three hours on public transport. Minister, SNCB announced through its 2017-2020 Transport Plan that a direct train linking Mouscron to Louvain-la-Neuve via Tournai and Etterbeek would be in place as early as December. This measure, if applied, is in the right direction, as it will allow students to reduce their travel time and not have to take multiple matches. Minister, this Transport Plan has yet to be validated by the Council of Ministers. So my questions are as follows. Is it the government's intention to approve this measure? In the future, could several such trains be put into circulation for students in Picardy Wallonia?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic655x.u34	My colleague, the Transport Plan is to be submitted shortly for approval by the Council of Ministers. I confirm that the train connecting Mouscron to Louvain-la-Neuve via Tournai and Etterbeek is well planned in the SNCB's draft Transport Plan. Besides, I don't know what could call him into question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic655x.u35	Not me...
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic655x.u36	I see only Infrabel who could still do it, but I understand that she will not question SNCB's requests. Before we think about other trains of this type, we must have some success. It is therefore through an assessment of the success of this train that I propose you to undertake the reflection and, why not, to associate yourself with its promotion to the student population of your region.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic655x.u37	Minister, I'll take your word. I won't miss it. Anyway, that's great news. Thank you on behalf of all the students. Indeed, spending three hours on a train to get back to his kot is quite painful. Thank you for taking this issue into consideration.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic655x.u38	There's a happy man!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic655x.u39	I still need a toilet in Tournai station.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic655x.u40	Mr Delannois, we will remain here for today.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic655x.u41	Madam President, we'll say it by singing.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic655x.u42	Mr Minister, this is a follow-up question about the ticket sales at SNCB. SNCB has granted a monopoly to a service provider, Olympus, to develop an application in which the sale of tickets from SNCB can also take place. In the meantime, in the light of the mobility budget and in view of all the useful applications that are possible to combine all kinds of modes of transport in applications, several other young companies are waiting for cooperation with SNCB in order to be able to offer those tickets, without a competitive disadvantage from an undertaking which has had a monopoly for a long time. You formally replied to me that I was right, that SNCB could not grant a monopoly to a service provider and you would discuss it with SNCB. You were going to ask SNCB, if necessary, to suspend or terminate that contract with that one service provider in anticipation of fair competition with other competitors. Minister, how did that go? Did you get a chance to talk to SNCB about that? What's society up to? Will SNCB in the short term allow other Olympus competitors to sell tickets, for example through an application?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic655x.u43	Minister, Mr Lachaert has already mentioned a number of elements relating to the possibility of selling tickets, subscriptions or accounts to SNCB. I think that in the long term we will simply move towards a system where an account is sent at the end of the month, indicating the use of the train, tram, bus, bicycle, car parts. It must, of course, be made possible to develop such platforms. These platforms are unthinkable if SNCB is not included. That is why it seems essential to me that SNCB should be open to such cooperation and that it should join such innovative initiatives as they are. Olympus was a forerunner who invested a lot in it and today worked out a nice offer. I do not think, however, that the supply can only be made by them and that other companies will be held back in their initiatives and development of apps, applications, multimodal applications, etc. I have the following questions, Minister. What is the status of SNCB's strategy around these new sales channels? Has a decision been taken on this strategy and the vision on the use of third parties in sales channels? If not, when can we expect this? What conditions will one have to meet in order to be allowed to sell SNCB tickets and subscriptions? What will the criteria be? Did SNCB receive any requests in this respect? How much? In what way will you ensure that other providers of multimodal mobility applications will also be able to obtain facilities from the railway company to sell tickets?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic655x.u44	SNCB informs me that there is no ground or legal basis for temporarily suspending or withdrawing the agreement with Olympus. However, the current commercial agreement with Olympus will have to evolve in the long term into the type of contracts that SNCB will use for the sale of its tickets by third parties so that all market actors can work on the same conditions. As previously communicated by SNCB, both the technical and the legal framework will be fully ready during the second semester. SNCB recently wrote to the various actors who have shown a concrete interest in selling SNCB tickets digitally in the past with a proposal to test the technical developments carried out in the coming months as a friendly user. In the meantime, there is also close cooperation with some actors to provide a temporary technical and contractual solution as soon as possible to bridge this period. However, I expect more detailed explanations on the implementation of the strategy for better information for travellers announced on 2 May. Technical developments require time because SNCB is working on a completely new IT distribution system for domestic tickets. That system must replace the old system which dates back to 1992. However, I will ask SNCB to inform me in any case of the planning of the work envisaged in the framework of this project.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic655x.u45	Minister, I understand that you are here to play the messenger of SNCB, but I am absolutely not satisfied with your answer, or indeed with the answer that SNCB gives you, and I think you know it. I think that, in fact, by moving everything forward with regard to the other service providers, she is destroying the company's services. That's what she does. You know that the government has just been asked to work on a mobility budget. It's supposed to be here soon. Then one firm will be done with her application and her card and that will be Olympus. The other will therefore not be able to work with SNCB and will have an irretrievable disadvantage vis-à-vis one competitor. It's often about young companies starting up, with young people, who don't have a lot of capital yet, and that actually destroys those businesses. I wonder what the purpose of SNCB is? Does SNCB want to have a successful business model in which they recruit customers, or is it intended to privatise one person by blabbering with one firm? I think this is absolutely impossible, and I will not let this go. I'll keep asking questions about this until it's okay. I also think that it is not possible to transfer that to the second half of this year. There have been discussions with these other companies for years. I think that is absolutely unacceptable.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic655x.u46	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I understand from your reply that an interim solution would be possible, by working with interim contracts pending the final agreement with the framework to be worked out in the second semester. I see a positive opening to other initiatives. I think that's important. I hope that other players will be able to continue with that.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic655x.u47	Président: Jef Van den Bergh.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic655x.u48	Mr President, Minister, you have not failed to communicate around the green light granted by your government around the famous "virtuous" billion, which should allow the RER to be completed while largely compensating Flanders for this effort made in the interests of the citizens of the whole country. While several avenues have been suggested for the practical modalities of this loan, it is now apparent that the State would not borrow this sum from a block, but as needs arise. Having said that, there are still questions that need clarification. Will the State provide Infrabel with a provision that will allow it to pay the claimants as they progress, or will Infrabel be "reimbursed" a posteriori for the expenses incurred under the RSP? In the second case, would there not be a risk that lnfrabel would not have sufficient means to start this work? What guarantees will Infrabel have that the State will honour its commitment? How soon will it recover the sums committed from the State? Will lnfrabel have to be in debt for the time to be reimbursed by the State? When exactly will Infrabel begin to dispose of the amounts of this loan? I think it has been linked: the sums are given to Infrabel at the beginning of the work. When will work be restarted for lines 161 and 124?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic655x.u49	Dear colleague, in the context of the implementation of the additional resources for the financing of strategic railway infrastructure, several solutions are being studied within the various technical working parties: either by providing in advance sufficient financial resources to Infrabel, such as a working capital fund with ex post audit to enable it to finance the work in question without soliciting its own funds, or by the State borrowing and paying directly the invoices. In both cases, this remains pure state funding, as I have already had the opportunity to say. We are currently studying measures to ensure that the RER work is restarted as quickly as possible, at the earliest possible time.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic655x.u50	As I understand it, we are still at the working group stage. We're still talking about that billion. It is a financial technique, but without finance, there is no work. Do we agree, minister?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic655x.u51	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic655x.u52	If I hear your answer correctly, there are two techniques. The good news for society is that we will not touch Infrabel's equity and it will be a working capital. Advances will therefore be made to Infrabel in the case of the first hypothesis. The second assumption is that the loan would be a direct loan from the State. I imagine you'll hand it over to Infrabel. When will a decision be made? Without a decision on financial technology, work will not begin. Will the work begin? Can you tell me when?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic655x.u53	Once the technical teams have submitted technical dossiers to launch tenders.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic655x.u54	Apart from the financial technique?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic655x.u55	Until then, it will be clarified whether the government pays the invoices directly or whether working capital is provided to Infrabel.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic655x.u56	All right. I'll come back to find out the deadlines.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic655x.u57	Questions No 17880 by Mrs Jadin and No 17925 by Mr Cheron are transformed into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic655x.u58	Minister, SNCB has just received a EUR 600 million loan from the European Investment Bank (EIB). This long-term loan at favourable rates will partially cover the renewal of SNCB's railway fleet by the acquisition of 445 new cars, delivered between September 2018 and December 2021. We are already looking forward to that. This loan only finances part of this order estimated at €1.3 billion. Minister, what is the current state of the SNCB railway fleet? When the last piece was delivered in 2021, how many cars will the SNCB have? What are the other avenues envisaged by SNCB to finance the remainder of its order for 445 new cars?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic655x.u59	Dear colleague, the SNCB fleet currently comprises 776 motor vehicles, 273 locomotives, 94 rail cars and 1,509 cars. In December 2021, the SNCB will have 1,483 cars. The future development of the park will depend on the expected evolution of the number of passengers transported. The framework contract covers a maximum of 1,362 M7 cars over a 10-year period. December 2021 corresponds to the delivery date of the last cars of the first option of 445 cars. The contract covers 1,362 cars, of which 445 must have been supplied by December 2021. The basis for financing the acquisition of rolling stock is the State investment allocation to SNCB. This is the route currently envisaged for the financing of the rest of the order, while not excluding the other possible ways of the SNCB, including recourse to the EIB.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic655x.u60	Minister, thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic655x.u61	Mr President, Minister, Le Soir reports in an article published on 13 April 2017 that the United Kingdom will have to renegotiate, following Brexit, the freedoms of airlines on the British register. Business rights would be reprocessed country by country or globally with the European Union. The majority of airlines operate several flights daily across different destinations within the European Union. According to Le Soir, a "hard" Brexit would lead to round-trip flights between the United Kingdom and only one other European destination. Minister, what is Belgium's position on this? Is a renegotiation between the United Kingdom and Belgium on the freedoms granted to British airlines possible?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic655x.u62	Dear colleague, the negotiating strategy with the United Kingdom is currently under discussion with our European partners. The objectives would be towards an agreement between the United Kingdom and the 27 European countries as a whole, similar to that ratified today with countries such as Norway, Switzerland or Iceland. However, the air situation is strongly linked to the overall Brexit negotiations. Such a renegotiation of countries to countries will only be envisaged if the Brexit talks fail, which would not lead to a comprehensive agreement. Eventually, the European Commission could still request a mandate to negotiate an agreement at a later stage on behalf of the Twenty-Seven.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic655x.u63	Minister, thank you for your answers. All this is just beginning.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic655x.u64	Mr President, Minister, in the past I have already asked two written questions relating to the underground parking of SNCB in Roeselare, in particular, question No. 387 of 23 April 2015 and Question No 1999 of 22 December 2016. I had to wait a long time for the answer to that last question, which I only received on Tuesday 18 April 2016. I received a very minimal answer to the second question on income, in my first written question of 23 April 2015. On the second question I received the following short but clear answer: "The total revenue from the parking is currently 229 euros per day. No forecasts of parking revenues had been made in advance. The objective is that revenues cover operating costs. Currently, the capacity utilisation rate of the parking is still too low." End of the answer I received. In my written question of 22 December 2016, I actually asked the exact same question as in 2015. However, I did not receive an answer to my question concerning the revenues of the parking. That's why I'm asking you again: how much is the total revenue from the parking per day and per month since January 2015 until now?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic655x.u65	Mr President, I believe that the honourable Member understands that it is not appropriate to publish detailed figures here on activities taking place in a commercial environment. This also applies to figures relating to the occupation and revenues of the parking facilities managed by SNCB. What SNCB can do is communicate about the major trends. Specifically for the underground car park of Roeselare, the occupation and revenues of the car park have increased since it was put into service. SNCB predicts a break-even situation by the end of 2018. I repeat that the objective to cover operating costs with income is not an objective per parking lot, but at a global level. The cost of a parking building is higher than for a parking lot. The business plan shall be calculated over several years. SNCB informs me that it is convinced that the costs will be covered by the revenue.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic655x.u66	Minister, I am listening to this answer with a great deal of surprise and even horror. My question was very simple and then I hear that it is not appropriate to give a figure. Apparently last year it was appropriate to give a figure, but I communicated that it was apparently not a good time and that they were bad figures. They refer to a commercial environment. I invite you to Roeselare, where you've probably never been before. Together we will visit the paying parking lot and you will see that it is not in a commercial environment at all. Fortunately, there are commercial agreements to improve that. SNCB can communicate about the major trends. I already got that in a first answer. I could also see that there was an increasing number of users. Except I don't know how much money is being paid. If you and SNCB refuse to answer a simple question with a simple figure, I find that contempt for Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic655x.u67	This will undoubtedly be continued.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic655x.u68	Mr President, I am sorry to disturb the order of business somewhat, but I am also in the Kazakhgate Committee. Minister, I come back to you on line 130A, which connects the cities of Charleroi to Erquelinnes via Marchienne-au-Pont, Landelies, Hourpes, Thuin, Lobbes, Fontaine-Valmont, La Buissière and Solre-sur-Sambre. Today, there is no longer a question of talking about a possible connection from Erquelinnes station to Paris, which would be a very good alternative to the Thalys Wallon, but which you have decided not to follow. Today, we are talking about the threat of closure on this line yet linking the large stations of Charleroi-Sud and Erquelinnes. There are three major problems on this line: the obvious ageing of the various points in this section, the downward review of speed, already limited to 60 km/h aimed at slowing down the ageing of the infrastructure and finally, the single-tracking of part of the line. Therefore, if work is not planned quickly, the line could be closed in the long term. However, these new measures run counter to the new SNCB 2017 transport plan, which aims to improve punctuality, speed and connections, as well as to increase the frequency of services. However, the single-tracking of line 130A will considerably slow down its traffic; 30% of switches will be removed and this will have a significant impact on traffic. For Infrabel, the lack of financial resources makes it impossible to maintain all the lines. In addition, the Government has requested significant savings. Line 130A is a consequence, and without concrete political choices, it becomes complicated to find funds for work. However, the 130A line is very important for small towns around Charleroi. Already affected by the number of inconsequential trains during peak hours, the closure of the line would cause the inhabitants of these underserved municipalities not to be able to attend, among other things, the cultural activities carolo, not to be able to take evening classes or not to give the opportunity to the workers on break to return by train. Therefore, Minister Infrabel believes that without a concrete political choice, he himself cannot support the maintenance of all the lines. Are you going to make the right decisions so that line 130A can be rearranged? Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic655x.u69	Dear colleague, I don't know where that rumor that echoed came from and I think if I put one over the other, all the letters I received, it would be a good binder. As I explained to the mayors concerned by the 130A – which I continue to do, since I still signed documents this morning – in a letter dated 27 April, the SNCB will not remove a train on this line as part of its next transport plan. SNCB confirms to me that its transport plan 2017-2020 does not foresee any changes on line 130A leading to reductions. It is important not to confuse SNCB's transport plan with Infrabel's multi-year plan. Infrabel informs me that the single tracking of part of line 130A is the subject of internal discussions. At the present stage, SNCB further states that the single-tracking of certain sections would have no impact on the service of the trains provided for in the December 2017-2020 transport plan. Infrabel adds that its draft multi-year investment plan does not call into question the viability of the line. It is therefore time to put an end to this unnecessary controversy. In any event, I would point out that, in accordance with Article 90 of Infrabel's management contract, the company must maintain the level of capacity of the network at least equal to that recorded on the date of signature of the management contract in 2008. Any modification must be subject to an analysis showing that the capacity is sufficient for the implementation of the rail offer provided by SNCB, with a possible margin of increase, knowing that on this line also convoys of goods are running. This analysis has yet to be performed by Infrabel. Finally, contrary to what you claim, the alternative to Thalys Wallon via a classic dessert is not buried. On the contrary, the implementation of alternatives is seriously analysed. Thus, among the tracks to be operated, I asked SNCB to analyse, in close cooperation with SNCF and in consultation with Infrabel, the feasibility of a Namur-Paris relationship with conventional vehicles such as Benelux trains to the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic655x.u70	Minister, thank you for these answers. In fact, it is sometimes necessary to cut wings to a duck. Perhaps these are misintentional rumors. I don't know. At least we now have clear answers. Considerable work has already been done on this line. The repair of several works of art was carried out in what is none other than the corridor of entry of goods into our territory. You had already told me about the feasibility study of lines facing France from Namur and Charleroi – via Mons or Maubeuge and Erquelinnes. Of course, I support such a measure. From then on, I was quite surprised, just like you, by these rumors. That is why I am delighted to hear your answers. On the other hand, I hope that investments can be made so that the goods can still pass and that this international transport becomes a reality. In this way, the operation of line 130A in its current state will be confirmed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic655x.u71	Minister, a while ago I was contacted by the VFG and other associations about the mobility of people in a carriage, especially those who travel with a scooter. Scooters are three-wheeled, four-wheeled or even five-wheeled and have an electric drive and are mainly used by persons with reduced mobility because of their disability and more and more also because of age. The scooter itself has undergone a major innovation in ten years. This has to do with the social trend that people want to be mobile for as long and as much as possible. According to the VFG, there is also a problem at De Lijn. According to De Lijn, the scooter can no longer be transported safely. This was based on an opinion and a study by a Dutch research centre. We have also recently seen another tendency that was not there before. In the case of SNCB, the policy was always to allow the scooters. We are now, however, that people in a scooter too long or too heavy are no longer welcome at SNCB. SNCB today applies the following guidelines. The wheelchair shall not be more than 75 cm wide and 120 cm long and the wheelchair including the user shall not be heavier than 300 kg. The trend is now that the appliances are heavier, longer and wider because of mobility. Minister, what is the policy on the access of the mobile scooters to SNCB today? How many people on a scooter have already refused to use the train? Have any complaints been made to SNCB? I found an article from someone who wanted to take the train in Hasselt and was refused. Are the number of complaints rising in 2015, 2016 and 2017? In the past, SNCB served with the National High Council for Persons with a Disability. Is SNCB prepared to adapt its policy to the growing number of users of this type of wheelchair?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic655x.u72	SNCB lets me know that it applies the standards that Europe imposes in its technical specifications and interoperability. These standards for a transportable wheelchair serve as a basis for making stations, station toilets, trains and ramps accessible, not only in Belgium but throughout the European Union. If scooters are longer than 120 cm, the chance is real that they will face a problem at some point during their journey due to their length. Moreover, SNCB's ramps and lift platforms were not designed to get scooters longer than 120 cm on the train. This requires a manual intervention of the staff. In the case of heavy and motorised appliances, this poses a serious safety risk both for the user and for the staff. In the transport conditions of SNCB, therefore, the following text was also included, I quote: "Persons with reduced mobility and an electric wheelchair operate their wheelchair themselves and bear the full responsibility for this.' It is therefore technically impossible for SNCB to change its policy. SNCB can therefore only allow scooters on its trains in so far as the dimensions allow. No figures are kept on how many times SNCB refuses such devices on its trains. The customer service also does not keep records of complaints.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic655x.u73	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I know that there are technical standards laid down in European legislation. The safety risk to both staff and other travellers must indeed be taken into account. However, I do think that the debate should be conducted because we are dealing with a new social trend. It should be a social obligation to guarantee everyone's mobility for as long as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic655x.u74	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Demon's 18017 was postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic655x.u75	Mr Minister, my question concerns a debate which is, of course, being discussed on a regular basis in our committee for at least ten years. It is noted that there are still four networks, four tariffs and four timetables. Efforts are now being made by the various companies to enable connections to each other's networks, but there is still a long way to go. In the Senate, recommendations were adopted on 20 May 2016 to strengthen integrated public transport. In political terms, therefore, there is certainly the will to strengthen and improve this. Initiatives are also being taken in the field. I mention the ticket Hi Belgium Pass, an air ticket-train ticket that can be used throughout the country. So we already have a form of tariff integration through this cooperation between Brussels Airport, Brussels Airlines, SNCB and various tourist centres. We also see, at local level, for example in Antwerp, the launch of a pilot project to make this possible there too. What is your view on an integrated tariff and ticketing system that SNCB is developing together with the regional transport companies? Is there already an agreement on the roll-out of the pilot project in Antwerp? When will it start? Has it been discussed at the Inter-Ministerial Conference for Mobility Ministers? When will the evaluation take place so that further enlargement is possible to the other regions of our country?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic655x.u76	Mr Minister, the MOBIB card has become a well-known and common carrier for, for example, a joint subscription from STIB and SNCB, but it is still a long way from what was intended eleven years ago. It was then agreed in a protocol agreement to evolve towards a unique ticket and carrier for all public transport companies in our country. Ticket integration and tariff integration go ideally hand in hand. In order to make it as easy as possible for the traveller, it would also be best to work towards tariff integration where each operator receives a fair share of the income on the basis of a fair distribution, depending on the cost of the registered journeys. The Senate's Information Report on the necessary cooperation between the Federal Government and the Regions in order to achieve a more integrated public transport plan and offer makes that clear again. As Mr Geerts said, the prices and the distribution of income within SNCB and De Lijn are discussed in the context of the offer in Antwerp and Ghent. Mr Minister, I have the following questions. Will one only work in Antwerp and Ghent via the MOBIB card or are there also possibilities to pay tickets via bank card or smartphone? What is the vision regarding mobile carriers, such as smartphones? How are the discussions between SNCB and De Lijn on tariff integration going? How does the implementation of the central system CenSy proceed with the MOBIB card? What's the status? In your previous reply, you said that the transport companies are working on a common mobile application that should be available in the autumn. Is the development of this on schedule? Will the deadline be met? What is the ambition of the various public transport companies to achieve further ticket integration outside these cities, so on the whole network? What is the ambition of real tariff integration so that we no longer have to buy separate tickets for the various public transport companies, but that this can happen in a movement?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic655x.u77	SNCB informs me that negotiations with De Lijn on the joint subscription for agglomerations are very constructive and that both companies intend to introduce an integrated subscription for the agglomerations of Antwerp and Ghent this year. According to SNCB, September would be the target date for drafts. Currently, SNCB and De Lijn are preparing a concrete proposal on tariffs, including financing. Following internal approval by De Lijn and SNCB, this file will be submitted to the custody authorities for approval. The joint subscription for the agglomerations Antwerp and Ghent will only be offered via MOBIB. MOBIB is the common mobility card for the four Belgian operators. As regards the state of implementation of the CenSy system in the MOBIB maps, SNCB informs me that CenSy is a tool for exchanging data between the IT systems of the operators. It facilitates after-sales service by enabling the publisher to create a MOBIB card removal loading and hence all tickets loaded on cards. Secondly, it provides for the possibility of charging combined tickets sold by a particular operator on the equipment of the other operators involved in the ticket, action listing. However, the development of CenSy, which has been completed, is not sufficient to operationalise these services. Each operator must also adjust its own system to process CenSy's data flow. The remote loading function is already operational between SNCB and the TEC in both directions and between SNCB and STIB, including in both directions. De Lijn announced this function by 2018. The action listing function between SNCB and the TEC, as well as between SNCB and STIB, is now ripe and is already being tested. It is expected to be put into production in the coming months, depending on the results of these tests. De Lijn announced this function by 2018. The mobile application intended to consult the contents of a MOBIB card with a near-field communication smartphone will be developed by Belgian Mobility Card before the end of 2017. BMC is a subsidiary of the four Belgian transport operators working, inter alia, on the development of the MOBIB card. The application will then be made available to the operators. It is up to each operator to market this application and/or to integrate its functions into their own mobile application. This is foreseen for SNCB during the first semester of 2018. These projects of tariff integration and increased interoperability between public transport companies have already given rise to decisions at the ECMM meeting of 8 November 2016 and will be held at the two forthcoming ECCM meetings.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic655x.u78	Mr President, I would like to thank the Minister for his reply, which this time contained a great deal of content. Once the file's gone, they're working on it. The difficulty was mainly to start. When I hear now that technical support in the field of software is in place, I believe that nothing can stand in the way of roll-out.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic655x.u79	I would like to join with Mr Geerts in his reply. I believe that there are a lot of positive elements in the answer. Indeed, there is a rapid pace of tariff integration and the different applications on mobile devices. We are all looking forward to the day when we will be able to use this effectively.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic655x.u80	Debates of the European Parliament 18033 of myself is converted into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Calvo's 18034 is also converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic655x.u81	Minister, the 2017-2020 transport plan provides that the IC linking Mons to Liège will no longer stop at the station of Auvelais, the administrative, commercial and cultural hub of the entity of Sambreville. In addition, the same IC will no longer stop at Jemeppe-sur-Sambre. It is therefore the whole of Lower Sambre that will no longer be served by a fast train, if we exclude the station of Tamines which, it will always be served. In addition, the service to Ham-sur-Sambre station by the omnibus train will only take place at three stops per day and only on weekdays. Mr Minister, I would therefore like to ask you about this point. Can you confirm this information? At a time when European and Walloon authorities have decided to support the Sambrevilles project portfolio, how do you justify this choice of no longer serving certain stations, whereas the main objective of this European portfolio is the socio-economic redeployment of the Val de Sambre?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic655x.u82	Dear colleague, the information you provide must be nuanced. If it is a fact that the IC Mons-Namur-Liège train will no longer stop in Auvelais and Jemeppe-sur-Sambre, there are two L Charleroi-Namur-Jambes trains per hour instead of one. These two stations, instead of being served by an IC and an L, will be served by two L trains.There is therefore no decrease in the supply. You will also note that at both stations, almost all travellers are heading towards Charleroi, Namur and Brussels. SNCB informs me that the number of travellers to Mons and Liège is very limited. With respect to the Ham-sur-Sambre station located 600 metres from the Jemeppe station on Sambre, or eight minutes on foot, it must, in accordance with the SNCB management contract, be served by four trains per day. SNCB provides six today: three in the morning and three in the evening. In December 2017, the offer will remain unchanged, and SNCB will continue to provide six trains per day for the fourteen daily travellers attending this stopover. On the contrary, SNCB's approach seems to be part of Sambreville's deployment, with an offer more adapted to the needs, since the Basse-Sambre will be connected twice an hour to its natural hinterland, Moustier and Franière to the east, Aimeau and Farciennes to the west. It will also be connected twice an hour to Jambes, one of the main administrative centres of the Walloon Region. Today, there is only one train per hour to this destination, despite the stopping of the IC train. This redeployment of the offer therefore presents itself as an opportunity to allow the inhabitants of the Sambre basin to reach the poles of Auvelais, Tamines or Jemeppe-sur-Sambre, since the frequency of the connection from all unguarded stopping points (PANG) to these poles will be two L trains every hour. Today, only the cities of Namur and Charleroi are connected twice an hour to the three stations of the Basse-Sambre. Finally, I would like to remind you that through this service, the SNCB responds to a Walloon demand to benefit from a rapid relationship between the major cities of the Walloon dorsal. This will be particularly the case between Charleroi-Sud and Jambes.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic655x.u83	Question No 54, by Mr De Pasquale Point 18041 by Mr Yüksel and others, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. Mr Van den Bergh's 18042 were converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic655x.u84	Mr President, Minister, in my last question about the Park and Ride project planned in Stockem, you told me that a "300-seat parking lot could indeed be planned in Viville in 2017". You added that "the schedule of work can be set at the end of 2017, depending on the budgetary means". We're almost in mid-2017 and I'm coming back to you a little skeptical. Indeed, recently, the Luxembourg press echoed an interview with your Luxembourg counterpart in which he referred to the Park and Ride project in Stockem. According to François Bausch, Minister of Sustainable Development and Infrastructure of the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, "the project would not progress well due to "too much bureaucracy" in Belgium, given the lack of coordination between lnfrabel, the railway system manager and SNCB, in charge of passenger transport". He also explained that "the study of the project would, however, be completed and a contact was made with the Belgian Minister of Transport, with a view to moving it forward". The Park and Ride project in Stockem is intended to capture some of the drivers who use the E411. This artery is congested from the locality of Weyler during peak hours. It is indeed imperative to lighten the road network to Luxembourg. I hope that the project will come to fruition quickly and, all the more so as you have confirmed to me that "in terms of road infrastructure, there is no immediate need to develop access to the new Park and Ride". Minister, what is the status of this case? Is there a problem? When can we hope to see a Park and Ride in Stockem? What capacity? Has the study of the project been completed? If so, what are the conclusions? Have you recently had contact with your Luxembourg counterpart on this matter? If so, what has emerged? Do you confirm a lack of coordination between Infrabel and SNCB on this issue? If so, what is it due to? Should parking spaces in Stockem be set up in the near future, do you intend to improve the supply of trains to Luxembourg in order to attract more commuters? Has SNCB actually made contact with TECs? Are the new docks at the Viville stop finished?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic655x.u85	Dear colleague, the issue of the Park and Ride in Viville was discussed at the beginning of March at the meeting of the Belgian-Luxembourg Administrative Commission. On this occasion, Belgium reiterated its willingness to work with the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg to achieve the Park and Ride as soon as possible. At this meeting, the Grand-Ducal representatives asked to phase this Park and Ride with 250 seats this year. After carrying out a potential study, SNCB finalized a final study focusing on the technical-railway elements, with the constraints of infrastructure and rolling stock, mainly financial and commercial. IDELUX, responsible for the mission, submitted a first report in mid-April 2017 and SNCB is studying the operational and commercial impact of the demand for a Park and Ride solution in the Arlon region. In this case, there is a question of a Park and Ride at the Viville stop point and not Stockem. Parking spaces will be arranged according to a phase. Approximately 200 parking spaces could be made available as of December 2017. A meeting on the Park and Ride in Viville was held on April 18 in the presence of representatives of Minister Bausch's office and representatives of my office. I would point out that, contrary to what has been portrayed in the press, there are no particular problems of coordination between Infrabel and SNCB in this case. SNCB needs an additional infrastructure - signalling and catenary - to ensure an offer in Viville; Infrabel is studying the cost of this infrastructure and its sustainability as part of the 25 000 volt switchover in 2019. With regard to the supply of trains, SNCB informs me that several technical difficulties must be overcome in order to achieve an ambitious offer in the short term. On the one hand, the infrastructure is under construction and single track between Lavaux and Habay, until December 2019 and, on the other hand, the capacity is reduced on the Libramont-Arlon section. Then, another and not the least, without the fact that Minister Bausch has told me so far, which I am surprised to see, a total cut in traffic is planned for several months, in 2018, between Arlon and Luxembourg. This cut will be done by the CFLs to equip the line in 25,000 volts, on the Grand-Ducal side. However, this appears to be a very tough measure for commuters from Belgium to Luxembourg. So far, I have not received official information from my Grand-Ducal counterpart. I would suggest that he draw on what is in force in Belgium, that is, a single track instead of a total cut-off. This last possibility risks diverting thousands of passengers to a bus service that Luxembourgers are planning. This measure is significant enough that it can be negotiated with my counterpart and the CFLs in the near future. The stock of SNCB and CFLs does not currently allow for an increase in supply for this reason. Registration of AM08 Desiro and CFL equipment is likely to be required to change the situation. In addition, the TECs put into service their new depot on the site around the Viville and Stockem stops. In the future, they will be able to set up a hub at the point of Viville, as it is located near the bus depot. This means that a bus service can be arranged in the parking lot of this municipality. Finally, the current wharfs are recent. Having served for several years, they must therefore not be changed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic655x.u86	Minister, you are bringing us good news. As for the scary information, it is not your responsibility. This is the first time we've talked about a traffic breakdown on this stretch. This can cause a snowball effect.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic655x.u87	I was speaking very well on the Luxembourg side.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic655x.u88	Yeah, I got it. The commuters, both passengers and motorists, should be warned of this; it is still quite terrifying! In view of the current situation, which is catastrophic, if such a rupture were to occur, the situation would then be very serious on our motorways.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic655x.u89	I know that Parliament has the last word, but I do not hope to be able to convince the CFLs and my colleague Bausch of the possibility of working towards a single road, even if the deadline for completion of the project is set back. Either you make a total cut, and it takes a few months, or you make a partial cut, and it takes more time. Infrabel chose a slightly longer but one-track break. In my view, we must give priority to this solution. I don't know any more about the reasons for the total cut.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic655x.u90	Minister, as I understand it, you are going to speak to your counterpart to try to establish a dialogue to move in that direction. This is a good initiative. Perhaps we could refer to other lines, but I do not know enough about the Luxembourg network to form an opinion in this respect. In any case, I thank you for this information.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic655x.u91	Mr President, Minister, this is an interesting subject: the national inquiry into the autonomous car. The IBSR, the Belgian Institute for Road Safety, conducted a survey among the Belgians to find out how the Belgian driver appreciated the arrival of autonomous cars, these vehicles capable of driving in traffic without the intervention of a driver. The range consists of several stages, from the current level 0 to level 5, the fully autonomous vehicle, where a driver is not even required. Fears are real, and four out of ten Belgians fear loss of freedom. Nevertheless, the arrival of the autonomous car is irremediable for two out of three Belgians. If the experts cited by the IBSR estimate that autonomous cars will be the majority in traffic in 2035, only 23% of Belgians make the same estimate. And for 34% of Belgians, the autonomous car will not arrive until 2050. What is your analysis of this investigation? Have you drawn any conclusions? What will be the impact of the generalisation of autonomous cars on energy consumption, safety and road infrastructure? Will this survey lead to concrete actions, projects or political initiatives? How many people in Belgium were selected to participate in this survey? Could you disaggregate these choices by age, sex and region?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic655x.u92	Dear colleague, we must not wait until 2050 or 2035. Indeed, technology is evolving and autonomous vehicles, at least for certain uses, will be able to take place on the public highway within five years. However, the autonomous car will only be adopted by the public if there is complete confidence in this technology. For some, the autonomous car still seems to be science fiction, but we must not forget what is in the balance: fewer accidents, fewer injuries, fewer human losses. This will be the greatest progress in road safety in recent years, not to mention the potential for mobility or reduction of vehicle emissions, thanks to better control of accelerations and decelerations. In terms of road safety, we are faced with essential opportunities to achieve our objectives. Tomorrow, emergency braking systems, automatic speed regulators or detectors in case of inattention or deviation of the trajectory. The day after tomorrow, the car is automated and connected. As far as road infrastructure is concerned, traffic flow could be greatly improved. Autonomous vehicles can follow at a reduced distance - platooning - and the vehicle will choose the most efficient path on its way. I continue my policy on two fronts. On the one hand, I have created a clear framework for experiments on the public road, with a code of good practice. I want to make Belgium a European laboratory for autonomous and connected vehicles that is integrated into an ambitious vision and a multimodal system. On the other hand, I would like these experiences to help improve international legislation. I call for the United Nations to allow all countries to market Level 4 to Level 5 autonomous cars by 2020. A thousand Belgians participated in the IBSR survey. The results can be broken down by age and gender, but not by the three regions. The ventilation can be found in the annex. Thus 496 men and 504 women: under 34, 290; between 35 and 54, 375; over 55, 335.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic655x.u93	Minister, thank you very much for your answers. You are talking about making Belgium a European laboratory with a multimodal vision. After this pilot project, do you intend to set up a plan? Do you already have a schedule in mind? With which rolling stock do you plan to start this experiment?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic655x.u94	Experiments have begun. Tests were carried out, in closed circuits – as for Ford, in Lommel – and on the road, in full size, with trucks and cars. The tests are ongoing and evolve according to the technologies. Autonomous vehicle technology could be ready by 2020. The current hindrance is legal and international. We must work within the framework of the Vienna Convention, which defines responsibilities and, in particular, the entire insurance framework. The difficulty today is that when you have a self-contained category 5 vehicle, going through phases 2, 3 and 4, when you have an accident, since there are no more drivers, who will be responsible for the accident? Will it be the manufacturer of the vehicle, the one who maintains it, the one who makes the software or the one who maintains the software or an external element? There are two types of brakes. There is a brake on the international legal context (Vienna Convention) and a psychological brake that is obvious. For testing semi-autonomous vehicles even of category 3, I can tell you that when you have to enter the tunnel, for example under Meiser Square coming from the E40, and you are told to let go of the steering wheel and pedals and that the car will do everything, the first time, you quickly take the steering wheel back into your hands. The second time, you're told to be reassured and let go. But as you are in the traffic in real life, I can tell you that it will take a famous psychological mutation, in any case as far as I am concerned, to agree to sit in the back of a car and say that she is leaving alone in traffic. I think that will be the case for most people. We'll either need test circuits, test cities. At noon, I was at a conference on mobility in the world's major urban cities where this issue was on the agenda. There were people who were even more experienced than we were in this area. It was said that the big challenge today is not the modal shift, it is not the technological leap, it is the mental leap in which we will have to register. This revolution will be 100 times more powerful than that of the advent of gsm. First of all, I can tell you that the people at the Auto Show have told us that a complete palace will be dedicated to the vehicles of the future in terms of technology, guidance, information, clean vehicles, electric vehicles. Symposia and working groups will be organized at that time. That's what I can tell you. There are tests, and I have just explained to you the difficulties of an international and legal nature.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic655x.u95	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic655x.u96	Questions Nos 18063 and 18067 by myself are converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic655x.u97	Mr President, Minister, the Flemish Government intends to ban all use of the chemical propellant for private individuals until there is scientific clarification of the health risks associated with it. This decision follows on the disclosure of the possible manipulation of the study of arthropods by the company Monsanto, which would have wished to prevent its weedkiller Roundup, the main ingredient of which is satsumas, from being referred to as a carcinogen. Infrabel's so-called weed train also uses products that contain fertilizers. Despite initiatives to limit the use of chemical exterminators, the weed train continues to spray several hundred thousand litres of water with diluted pesticides and herbicides every year. For this reason, in a resolution, I called on the Federal Government to set up a special working group to develop a plan of action for the sustainable and financially portable weed control along the Belgian rail network. This resolution was adopted at the beginning of July 2016 in the plenary session of the Chamber. In reply to my previous written question No. 2019 you informed me that Infrabel wanted to cooperate with this working group, which would be set up in early 2017. Minister, it is now May 2017. Were the working groups put together? If so, which actors are represented? If not, what is the reason for the delay?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic655x.u98	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, my cabinet has asked the FPS Mobility and Transport about the evolution of this dossier. The composition of the working group is currently being studied. When their potential members are identified, the FPS Mobility and Transport will contact them. They will be proposed to cooperate. The working group will then meet as soon as possible. I will follow this file and keep you informed of its evolution.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic655x.u99	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. (...) I understand that one cannot go over one night ice to start with the working group. The FPS Mobility and Transport would therefore be bringing together the experts to invite them to participate in the working group. In the meantime, however, it is May 2017. Before we know it, we'll be a year away. In any case, from the point of view of my role, I hope that from your role, too, I will put pressure on the Mobility and Transport FPS to move urgently, almost a year after the date, to take concrete action now and to bring the working party effectively around the table.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic655x.u100	Mr Minister, in several cities and municipalities, including my own city of Geel, there are complaints about waste and slurring in the rivers and surroundings of the railway lines outside the stations. Cleaning up that litter outside the stations is the responsibility of Infrabel. The work is carried out occasionally, for example following a yard or a request. Infrabel, however, does not seem to be keeping statistics on these occasional actions, but has started a reflection on its waste policy, which also includes the problem of landfill and litter near the tracks. The clean-up of the stations and the tracks in the stations is done by SNCB. For this purpose, SNCB supplies the cleaning staff and Infrabel is responsible for the necessary safety measures to protect these personnel. The procedure used is a temporary working procedure set up through the Permanent General Supervision of Infrastructure. In order to have the work carried out by SNCB's own staff in the immediate vicinity of in-service tracks, an adaptation of the 2013 Royal Decree is required, so that the personnel concerned are assigned a safety function which enables them to directly vouch for the required procedures with the Infrabel signalling posts. The adaptation of the relevant KB by the Safety and Interoperability Service of the Railways and the FPS Mobility and Transport should appear to be arriving soon, I hear from the services. In practice, it is not always easy to coordinate the maintenance of these railway lines when a municipality, city or citizen complains to Infrabel or SNCB. It's important to have an eye for this. I would therefore like to ask you the following questions about Infrastructure. In what way does Infrabel respond to the complaints reported by the municipalities concerned? Is there a fixed procedure to be followed in this respect? Does Infrabel work with the municipalities in this respect? What is the state of play of Infrabel's reflection on waste policy? Which output does Infrabel want to achieve with the thinking exercise? What measures does Infrabel intend to take to reduce litter? How many tons of litter did Infrabel collect in 2016? What is the estimated cost of cleaning it up? As far as SNCB is concerned, I have the following questions. What is the status of the amendment of the Royal Decree of 2013? What's the timing? How many tons of litter did SNCB collect in 2016? What's the estimated cost of cleaning it up?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic655x.u101	Mr President, Mrs Smaers, Infrabel organises punctual clean-up operations on the basis of its own findings or reports. The cities and municipalities can go to the Local and Resident Affairs cell or to the environment@infrabel.be for reporting complaints. Infrabel organises a consultation with its stakeholders in the context of the environmental policy plan and had a specific consultation with OVAM in the context of the policy Mooimakers. Infrabel does not currently hold specific consultations with cities and municipalities. Infrabel further develops its waste policy as part of the environmental policy plan and carries out actions for the re-use, recycling and selective waste collection of its waste streams, the further development of its container parks and awareness raising of personnel. Infrabel is working with the competent public authorities to shape its policy. As part of Mooimakers, a number of pilot projects in the framework of the public awareness campaign were discussed with OVAM in September 2016. Infrabel placed communication signs at locations where frequent spills are detected. Data on the disposal of landfills and litter are not available separately, but are part of waste contracts. As far as SNCB is concerned, the FOD has made a proposal to provide for a safety function with SNCB which allows for the application and application of security for work in the danger zone. This security function is reserved for the infrastructure manager Infrabel in the current Royal Decree. The FPS is responsible for handling this. No timing has been set. The amount of litter collected per year is not accurately recorded, but the amount collected by SNCB at the stations is roughly estimated at 30 to 50 tonnes per year. I'll get you the annual cost of that.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic655x.u102	Mr Minister, I hope that the adaptation of the Central Bank to the security function can be done quickly, so that we may be able to deal more flexibly with the occasional maintenance of the stations' surroundings. This is important, also for the good image of Infrabel and SNCB among the citizens and the municipalities. So I would ask you to put more emphasis on that.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic655x.u103	Mr President, Minister, we have learned from the press that a collaboration between Test-Achats and SNCB is being planned to improve the compensation system for commuters in the event of train delays. As a reminder, in 2016, 193 000 applications for compensation for long-term delays were submitted to SNCB, compared with 55 000 in 2015 and 66 000 in 2014. Minister, can you give us more information about this collaboration? How will it improve the situation of commuters? What are the modalities envisaged? When will this collaboration come into effect?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic655x.u104	Mr Devin, I am pleased that SNCB and Test-Achats are working together to improve the compensation system in case of delay in order to make it even more intuitive for customers. From now on, the traveller will receive 30 days instead of 15 days to apply for compensation. The system also allows the payment of compensation by bank transfer to the account of the delayed traveller. We will continue to work with Test-Achats and see how we can formulate a new proposal that better fits the needs of travellers.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic655x.u105	Minister, thank you for your answer. I will be attentive as a result of this collaboration.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic655x.u106	Mr. President, Minister, 281 Montois railway workers working in SNCB's workshops in Cuesmes are concerned. Since 2010, they fear that the activities of their workshops will not be sustainable. The main part of their work is the maintenance and maintenance of the M5 and M6 cars, which will end in 2021 since SNCB will soon acquire new equipment, M7 cars. The concern of the workers is that they do not have the guarantee to be able to review these new cars. Minister, can you confirm that the activities of the SNCB workshops in Cuesmes will continue in the future? Are recruitments planned?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic655x.u107	Dear colleague, the Cuesmes workshop is currently in the process of revising the M6 cars and will undertake the revision of the M5 cars from 2019 onwards. The M5s will be subject to a major revision. SNCB informs me that no closure of the facilities is envisaged and that the evolution of the purchases of the central workshops beyond 2021 would be the subject of a global analysis, taking into account the maintenance cycle of the equipment, the evolution of the park, including the acquisition of the new M7 equipment, which is scheduled to be delivered from the end of 2018-2019.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic655x.u108	I thank the minister for his answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic655x.u109	Mr.President, Minister, following the incidents of April 9, 2017, you asked SNCB to improve its crisis communication and to put in place a mechanism that would allow the faster deployment of local relief services. Can you tell us the status of the discussions on this subject? What short- and medium-term measures do you intend to put in place to improve crisis communication within SNCB? What are your plans today to speed up the deployment of local relief services in the event of a problem?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic655x.u110	Dear colleague, SNCB assessed the April 9, 2017 incident. In this regard, it has been clearly established that the SNCB's internal response plan and crisis communication functioned appropriately. I have already described the facts at the committee on 19 April. On the other hand, SNCB is currently examining how this real time communication in the event of an incident should be optimized to the client. To this end, it is mainly the lines of communication between the regulatory bodies and the intervention bodies in the field that are being studied. To clarify my response, crisis communication between the actors of the crisis worked well. On the other hand, between the actors of the crisis and the outsider, there were concerns. The designation of a leading customer info team at different levels where collaboration takes place in real time must also contribute to better communication. All of this has to come. In the coming weeks, SNCB will reconsider collaboration with the local police of relief services and administrative authorities at the local level. In addition, the lines of communication between the Security Operations Center (SOC) and the Information and Communication Centres (ICC) to travellers will be examined. Agreements between local authorities and local police services will also be evaluated in order to achieve better harmonisation between SNCB's internal intervention plans and local and communal intervention plans. So, basically, in-house, it works well, but as far as travellers and local actors are concerned, improvements have been identified and need to be implemented.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic655x.u111	We all realized, minister, that it works well in-house. You're saying it. Now, there's not just the transmitter, there's the receiver. And there's a gap here. Once this process has been completed, I will ask you again about it. Can you give me a specific date?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic655x.u112	SNCB/Infrabel is currently reviewing the entire process of communication to travellers. Indeed, there are regular discrepancies between the iPhone, the verbal message, and the sign. All of this is being evaluated. So I'm not in a position to give you a specific date. Depending on the last contacts I have had and if my memory is good, she wants to achieve results and have a strategic plan within three months. This implies a reorganization in the Traffic Control Center, SOC, ROC, etc. If it were to go faster, I'd give you a signal.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic655x.u113	Minister, thank you for that clarification.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic655x.u114	I imagine SNCB will communicate about this.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic655x.u115	Since you are the appropriate minister, I will come back to you at the end of June or the beginning of July because I imagine that SNCB will be preparing for the big holidays and the big flows.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic655x.u116	Look at the communication that was made during the weekend while work was being done on April 29, 30 and May 1. It worked very well. There were still people who were surprised, but they often came from outside. Communication at the level of important facts works well. Communication remains in the event of a crisis, incidents where efforts still have to be made.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic655x.u117	Mr President, Minister, you have announced your intention to study the introduction of an anti-start ethylotest system in all Belgian buses and buses. In concrete terms, a bus or bus driver will have to "blow in the ball" and be negative on the test, otherwise he will not be able to start his vehicle. This measure has already been studied in the Walloon Region in the past and has been considered ineffective and disproportionate. Indeed, the introduction of such a measure would cost millions of euros, while there have almost never been alcohol problems at the wheel of Belgian drivers. Minister, can you give us more details about this project? Do you have an approximate idea of the cost of such a measure? Do you have any figures on the number of Belgian car drivers or buses that are positive for the influence of alcohol? Has the IBSR submitted a study on the subject?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic655x.u118	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, your question mentions that the setting up of an anti-start ethylotest has already been studied in the Walloon Region in the past and has been considered ineffective and disproportionate. If such a study exists, I am not aware of it. While it is true that the available data do not reveal any particular alcohol-related problems for drivers of buses and buses, the IBSR study on reducing the permitted alcohol level for novice drivers and drivers of large vehicles has shown that they face a higher basic risk because of the potential severity of accidents involving these vehicles and the long distances travelled by their drivers. I also note that in France, buses used for the transport of children must be equipped with anti-start ethylotests since 2010, a measure extended to other coaches since 2015. That is why the question of a study seems to me a useful step before drawing conclusions. If other studies have already been carried out, they will have to be attached to the file in order not to do the same work twice. Given the division of responsibilities in this matter, I put this item on the agenda of the next Executive Committee of Ministers for Mobility. I therefore intend to know the official position of my regional colleagues in order to carry out a possible joint project, which would concern both occasional and international transport, which is a federal jurisdiction, and regular and regular specialized transport, which is a regional jurisdiction. Finally, I would add that companies can already equip their vehicles with an anti-start ethylotest as a preventive measure in order to make their personnel aware of road safety if they so wish. I must say that the Belgian Coach Federation wants this device for its vehicles, because companies do not always have the capacity or the ability to control their staff at all times and in any place, especially when drivers are far away in Europe to transport children or others on purely touristic and irregular missions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic655x.u119	Minister, thank you for your clarification. I will keep an eye on the development of this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic655x.u120	Mr President, my question is in the same vein as that of Mr Devin. Minister, in France, since 1 December 2016, anti-start ethylotests proposed by the prefectures have been applied in three departments: Drôme, Nord and Marne. In the course of its evaluation, this operation will be subject to a review as to whether it should be extended to the entire territory in 2019. In Belgium, since 1 October 2010, drivers under influence or intoxication may be sentenced to the installation of an anti-start ethylotest. This measure is always accompanied by a mentoring programme, as stipulated in the Royal Decree of 26 November 2010. This is an alternative to the pure and simple withdrawal of the driver's licence. However, to date, the record has been rather meagre, as the system is very little used by the judiciary. Minister, how many convictions have been handed down to date for placing anti-start ethylotests in the Belgian legal system? What are the reasons why, in practice, little use is made of this penalty? What are the problems? How can this be addressed today?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic655x.u121	Since its introduction in 2010 in the Law on the Road Traffic Police, the IBSR has followed 42 people sentenced to an anti-start ethylotest, which, it must be admitted, is very weak. Currently, imposing an anti-start ethylotest is optional for the judge, from 0.8 g of alcohol per litre of blood. It must be noted that the alcolock is not a success in Belgium. Both judges and offenders are more likely to resort to the deprivation of driving rights for a variety of reasons, including the cost of the alcolock, the fear of installing it in a professional car or the fear of the eyes of the entourage. Both judges and offenders make greater use of the deprivation of the right to drive and also the obligation to pay fines ranging from €2,000 to €4,000 at the same time. An alcolock costs 3,000 euros. I am therefore fully aware of the weaknesses of the current system. A bill will soon be submitted to the government to remedy it. We must not be mistaken about the debate. The main objective is to reduce the number of deaths on our roads. The bill under discussion therefore intends to fight more severely against driving under the influence of alcohol. In particular, it is foreseen that, in some cases, such as recidivism or in cases of severe alcoholic intoxication – that is, beyond 1.8 g/l, which makes more than 18 beers – the imposition of an anti-start ethylotest will have to become the norm, not the exception. In 2015, on the basis of police reports, it is estimated that about 10,000 people were verbalized with a rate of more than 1.8 g, while the risk of accidents is two hundred times higher with this level of alcohol than with a sober driver. It is therefore high time that the legislator again showed his will to counter this phenomenon firmly, if he wants to achieve in 2020 the goal of limiting the number of deaths on our roads to 420.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic655x.u122	Minister, thank you for all these clarifications. I will of course come back to ask you about the implementation of the plan.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic655x.u123	Minister, following the Bruges accident last month in which a boy fell under a truck, I received a lot of questions from Bruges schools about authorised supervisors. Certain issues would be unclear in the current legislation. I would have liked to have heard from you which of the following things can clearly describe you so that there is no confusion. What matters will you include in the discussions on the approximation of legislation on authorised supervisors? The current legislation allows authorised supervisors to cross groups. However, the definition of a group is unclear. What exactly is a group? Are two people, for example, already a group? Can children and students arriving at the school gate in a time span of about half an hour be seen as a group? Who exactly can allow the authorised supervisor to cross? Are they also authorized to cross mixed groups or parents with children? Is it desirable to change the rules so that cyclists can also be left? Delegated supervisors only have powers in the municipality where they are authorised. If they want to exercise that authority in a neighbouring municipality, for example when they are out with a class, they must ask permission. Can you see if it is possible that an authorised supervisor is competent throughout the country? Because there is a difference in the powers of a road captain and that of an authorised supervisor, there is often uncertainty. Is it desirable that there should be a single statute for both or should the authorised supervisor and the road captain continue to exist side by side? If so, why and can't both be coordinated anymore?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic655x.u124	Mr Demon, in the ministerial circular of 5 July 1999 on authorised supervisors, the question of the number of persons to be included in a group is addressed under point 3.7.1. However, the exact number for a group is not determined. That is also logical because it would only give rise to more discussions. Therefore, a group is described as a coherent set of multiple persons of a certain size. It is not intended to consider two persons as a group, but this does not mean that the authorised supervisor should not help those children to cross, either by giving advice without stopping traffic or by effectively stopping traffic if the traffic situation so requires. The tenor of the letter is that authorized supervisors should operate with common sense. Too strict a framework would be counterproductive and would not improve the safety of children crossing the border. Article 3.7.3.3 of the circular quoted above states that accidental persons with children may cross under cover of the instructions of the authorised supervisor. Adults have in fact the choice: either they switch independently, or they wait for the authorised supervisor to cross a group of children, with or without adults. I am aware that traffic conditions and mobility have changed considerably in recent years. More children cycle to school, the school environment is accentuated, the police cannot do all the traffic tasks, there is more freight traffic and so on. Work on the revision of the traffic rules has already covered the status of authorised supervisors. Among other things, it was provided that authorised supervisors may also help children crossing by bike. Because authorised supervisors nevertheless perform a somewhat specific assignment and usually only in certain places perform that task, usually at a certain school entrance, training is necessary. Thus, through the practical part of the training, they can also become familiar with the location and the specific traffic situation in which they will act as authorised supervisor. In the revision of the Road Code, the intention is to retain only one term, being the signaler. As already mentioned above, due to the specific mission of the signalers employed to ensure safety when crossing or accompanying children crossing by foot or by bicycle, persons with disabilities and/or older persons, training will continue to be provided.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic655x.u125	Thank you, Minister, for your clarification. I have not yet received an answer to my third question. From the city of Bruges, for example, one goes on a trip to the municipality of Oostkamp. According to my information one is in the city of Bruges then the authorized supervisor, but if one goes on a trip to a nearby village or city is not. Can we not achieve more uniformity so that we are everywhere authorized supervisor? Otherwise, this seems a little absurd.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic655x.u126	I'll look into that. I don't have an answer to that right now.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic655x.u127	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Poncelet's 18092 question was converted into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament 18110 by Mr Van Hecke is converted into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament Question No 18126 by Mrs Poncelet 18137 of myself. Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Lalieux's 18143 was postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic655x.u128	This question has a very long history, Minister. You may remember the Fyra that drove over us and across the Dutch rail network for several weeks, at the end of 2012-early 2013. Following the removal of that train, it was decided that the old Benelux train would run back between Brussels and Amsterdam, temporarily via line 12 and Roosendaal, but in the long run it would have to run over the high-speed line. In May 2013 it was already agreed between the Belgian and Dutch railways and governments that as of December 2016 the train would start to run on the high-speed line already a few months ago. That date was clearly not reached because today that train still runs over line 12 and the perspective of December 2017 is pushed forward. From then on, that Benelux train would go on the high-speed train and would also stop at the station Noorderkempen in Brecht in such a way that they would also get their long-awaited connection to the Netherlands. At the moment the travel time between Brussels and Amsterdam is 3 hours and 20 minutes. It is important that within the framework of the 2017 Transport Plan that travel time would be reduced. The switch to line 4 is also important for the station Noorderkempen, as mentioned above, and for the link Antwerpen-Breda. However, more and more rumors are popping up that it will be tight to reach the new December 2017 deadline, which is the third deadline, after December 2016 and April 2017. Hence a series of questions. What agreements were made between SNCB, NS and Bombardier, who must supply the train equipment in order to be able to drive over the high-speed line, line 4? In what way and when were these agreements made? What was the agreed timing? What are the implications for the parties involved if the agreed arrangements and timing are not met? The planned timing of December 2016 has not been achieved. Will the supplier be punished or fined? What are the further steps in this respect? Can you give more information about the scenario where the switch to HSL 4 can be made in December 2017? What does that mean for travel times? The road shows show that it is not yet certain whether the second L-train will run to Roosendaal or Essen. What are the plans? Is that related to the operation of the Benelux train? Can you give more information about the scenario where the switch to HSL 4 cannot happen in December 2017? What does the alternative scenario mean? What does that mean for travel time? What implications does this have for the operation of the station Noorderkempen? If that is not possible, I personally believe that the planned train hours that the Benelux train would offer for the station Noorderkempen should be filled in in an alternative way. What are the implications for the Antwerp-Breda connection?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic655x.u129	In 2014, SNCB signed a contract with Bombardier for the adaptation of 12 track locks for the trains on lines 4 (L4) and HSL-South. The homologation and adaptation of the locks on L4 are the responsibility of Bombardier. It was intended to deploy the modified locks from December 2016 on L4 and HSL-Zuid. Today it is objective to achieve that placing in service by 2017. By 31 May 2017, Bombardier shall submit the authorisation file to DVIS and to IL&T in order to obtain the approval of, inter alia, the ETCS software. The compatibility tests of the locomotives with the different types of infrastructure have been completed. Bombardier is now preparing the technical file. Legally, DVIS then has four months to carry out its analysis. If the switch to HSL 4 can take place in December 2017, the journey time between Brussels and Amsterdam will be 2 hours and 53 minutes, if not passed The Hague, as Mrs Dijksma asked by letter. The journey time between Antwerp and Breda will then be 33 minutes. As far as the second L train from Puurs is concerned, it is currently limited to Essen. To take the second train to Roosendaal, an agreement is needed at the operational and financial level with the Dutch Railways. If the switch to HSL 4 is not possible in December 2017, SNCB will rely on the penalty clause against Bombardier, which is contractually foreseen. The result is that the Benelux train will continue to run on line 12. He then keeps his current path, without reducing the travel time between Brussels and Amsterdam. As a result, the IC train 15 continues to run between Antwerp-Central and the Noorderkempen. This offer remains complemented by three P-trains back and forth, both morning and evening. A connection between Antwerp and Breda can only be realized once the Benelux train runs through the L4. Apart from the question of whether an alternative supply would be economically viable, this is certainly technically impossible because SNCB does not have equipment that can drive L4 and is allowed on the Dutch network.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic655x.u130	Thank you very much for your reply, Minister. It's May 3rd today. I understand that Bombardier still has until 31 May to get the file through. If that works, everything could be fine by the end of this year. I'm a little surprised that the penalty clauses only apply from December 2017 and not from December 2016, the original timing. It seems logical to me that, if the original timing is not met, the penalty clauses apply immediately. Now, of course, I don't know the contract, but it seemed logical to me that this would be the case. Thirdly, if the timing is not met, I find that once again a particularly painful case. However, for the time being, let us assume that it will be achieved. However, I would like to point out that the decision to build high-speed line 4 was taken in the mid-1990s and that the region of Brecht and the Noorderkempen at the time had a connection with the Netherlands in the prospect, as it were in exchange. It was said in the mid-1990s that this would be something for the first years of the decade 2000. I have been in Parliament since 2004. From the first few weeks I have asked questions about this, 13 years later I still have to ask questions about it. I find that very, very frustrating. I really hope this can be done quickly.
