ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-02-54-commissie-ic649x.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, at the beginning of this sitting I have a communication of service. Several fellow Members have asked me to invite the Prime Minister and the Minister for Development Cooperation to this meeting. We have both been told that they will not be able to join us. Deputy Prime Minister De Croo has declared himself willing to dialogue with him on this matter next week, if the committee so wishes. I have received no further news from the Prime Minister, except that he cannot be here today, as he is currently receiving Mrs Aung San Suu Kyi. I propose that we begin the meeting with the Minister present, the Minister for Foreign Affairs, who will give us an explanation. I shall first give the floor to Mr Calvo for a point of order.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-02-54-commissie-ic649x.u2	Mr President, I would like to get some more feedback from the Prime Minister. Together with Mr De Vriendt, I have spent an entire weekend trying, through the President of the Chamber and through you, to ensure that the Prime Minister is here. That seemed logical to us because the statements he made in Parliament on Thursday do not correspond to new information. You have made yourself very available to Mr De Vriendt. I did not receive feedback from the President of the Chamber until 10 a.m. yesterday. You speak of a different arrangement, but it seems logical to us that the Prime Minister would have been here today, during the day, because it is no longer just a matter for the Foreign Minister but also for the Prime Minister. I would therefore like to check whether there has been a little more feedback. Is the Prime Minister available in the course of the day? Or has another appointment been made? It seems to me quite logical that Members should have the opportunity to question the Prime Minister on this matter in the short term. I do not think we are dramatizing the situation when we say that this is also a matter for the Prime Minister, quite the contrary.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-02-54-commissie-ic649x.u3	Mr President, I would like to recall the facts as they happened. At the end of the plenary session, where you were not present – therefore, Mr President, I hope you have been told the facts – we proposed that the Committee on External Relations should meet with Mr Didier Reynders, Minister for Foreign Affairs, so that he could answer any questions that might still be asked on this matter by Members. The members of the House unanimously agreed on this meeting. There was never a question of hearing the Prime Minister, who had spoken, Mr Calvo, a few hours before. In the light of the latter's statements, if you had wished to hear it, I think you should have, as agreed, discussed it in plenary. The agreement that has been reached is that this committee should be held with the Minister for Foreign Affairs. You had an idea during the weekend, very well, but I would like us to stick to what was unanimously approved. This seems to me to be absolutely in line with what we said on Thursday.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-02-54-commissie-ic649x.u4	Mr Ducarme, it is true that Thursday evening an appointment was made in plenary to hear the Foreign Minister. That's right. This was done after a question from the opposition, but, of course, a great deal has happened in the meantime. In the meantime, what the Prime Minister has said there is not in line with the new elements. Between Thursday evening and today, new elements have emerged, so it was very logical that the Prime Minister should be here today. The least he could have done is to be transparent, Mr President-in-Office. I don't really think that's serious. It is a serious matter, a question of a Deputy Prime Minister and a Prime Minister, a question of human rights and women's rights, whether or not to tell the truth in Parliament. The fact that the Prime Minister is not available to Parliament for a whole weekend does not seem to me to be a good thing. I would not like to delay the sitting any longer, because my fellow Members also have a lot of questions, but I would like to ask what his availability might be during the day. After all, I do not rule out, even more so, our group believes that it is very likely that the answers of the Deputy Prime Minister will have to lead to the presence of the Prime Minister. It seems to me to be a very good idea that you are looking at his availability over the course of the day and that the Prime Minister is responding to it a little faster than during the weekend.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-02-54-commissie-ic649x.u5	Mr Calvo points out his arguments to us without developing or supporting them. Personally, I am sticking to the agreement of the plenary. We cannot fight the cards constantly, Mr Calvo, to take advantage, no doubt politically, of a file. I therefore propose that this false debate be brought to an end, that the substance be taken up, that the exchange with the Minister for Foreign Affairs be arranged, which was agreed at the plenary meeting on Thursday. I do not even wish you to go on behalf of this committee, since apparently we do not agree on this matter, to ask the Prime Minister if he is available to come. You have to be clear.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-02-54-commissie-ic649x.u6	Mr Ducarme, surely Parliament is a watchdog, I hope. Following last Thursday's plenary session, new information emerged. There's e-mail traffic that shows that what the Prime Minister said is wrong. It wasn't just about foreign ministry officials. It was not about a few hours in which the government had to decide quickly, no, the Reynders cabinet gave the go-ahead for the vote in favour of Saudi Arabia and nine hours had to do so. In conclusion, then, Minister Reynders misinformed the Prime Minister, or the Prime Minister has kept the truth from Parliament and the entire population. I would therefore like to confront the Prime Minister with the contradiction between what he has said in Parliament and what is apparent from e-mail traffic. I find it particularly disappointing that he is not here. The cabinet pointed to agenda problems. That meeting must therefore be organised, because we must continue to do so, which is also the outcome of today's debate. There is a contradiction between the e-mails and what the Prime Minister said in Parliament; we must not leave that blue.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-02-54-commissie-ic649x.u7	I have been asked by several fellow Members to hear Minister De Croo. I've been asked to hear the Prime Minister. I was indeed not here, Mr Ducarme, but I took the trouble to read everything that has appeared on Saturday and Sunday. I've had to establish that Minister De Croo's cabinet was in CC in the e-mail. I have also noticed that there is a contradiction with what the Prime Minister said in Question Time on Thursday afternoon.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-02-54-commissie-ic649x.u8	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-02-54-commissie-ic649x.u9	I believe, Mr President, that there was a contradiction with what the Prime Minister said on Thursday. I therefore took the initiative to ask the Prime Minister to come today. I tried all day yesterday to get in touch with the Prime Minister and only this morning I managed to get the message that the Prime Minister cannot come. I've made several calls...
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-02-54-commissie-ic649x.u10	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-02-54-commissie-ic649x.u11	It was with me this morning. I'm trying to close the deal to listen to the Foreign Minister first. Then we will put the question on the table whether and when we will ask Minister De Croo and the Prime Minister in this or another committee. If we do not get out of this, I assume that question will be the subject of discussion at tomorrow's Conference of Presidents. Will we now listen to the Foreign Minister?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-02-54-commissie-ic649x.u12	Mr President, when you tell us that there are contradictions, I say that there is probably a problem. I do not think there is an agreement in this committee to say that there are contradictions! I would simply remind you of your position of neutrality in your presidency.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-02-54-commissie-ic649x.u13	I'm going to speak in French. When I receive a request from a member, I consider that it is necessary to see whether that member has reasonable reasons to request the presence of a minister. My colleagues Ecolo-Groen drew my attention and I read back what the Prime Minister said on Thursday. I read the e-mails that Green colleagues sent us and I found that there was no match. On this basis, I considered it useful to ask the Prime Minister if he wanted to come. But it's up to him to decide whether he wants to come or not. I have not asked you to agree with my finding that there is no agreement. I simply said that I was of the opinion that the Greens' request is well founded and I proposed that we continue the discussion on this subject at the end of this meeting. I propose that we hear the Foreign Minister's explanations. You will then have the opportunity to ask him questions. We will then decide how the committee will deal with this matter afterwards.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-02-54-commissie-ic649x.u14	Mr President, I am surprised by Mr Ducrame's speech. I wonder if we can hang up on such formalism because there are things to hide. I think and hope everyone here wants to shed some light on this issue. This means showing where the disagreements between the Prime Minister's remarks and those of Mr Reynders come from, both on the transmission of information – when and how the cabinet was made aware – and on the substance, on the position. Because there too, on the substantive point of view, there are differences between the Prime Minister and the Minister of Foreign Affairs. On these two points, I think we should hear them at the same time. This means that, if we cannot hear the Prime Minister now, we will hear him later, and that Minister Reynders will also have to be present. We must avoid a cross-hunting where one comes when the other is absent.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-02-54-commissie-ic649x.u15	Mr President, Mr Ducrame, I am delighted to see you in this committee. When there are fewer cameras, you are less present. But it doesn't matter. Mr Ducrame, demanding transparency is not a "little political game". Demanding transparency is our work as a parliamentarian. I do not know if you have had some time this weekend to read the minutes of the committee last Wednesday and of the plenary session. But if you had, you would have realized that two ministers, including the Prime Minister – excuse me for a little – are speaking diametrically opposed. The contradictions are still flagrant. Mr President, I think your words were full of wisdom. I don't understand Mr. Ducrame's reaction. You proposed that we hear the Minister of Foreign Affairs, who has not had the opportunity to speak since last Wednesday and to respond to the Prime Minister's remarks. Minister, this is not a reproach at all. I hope that we can hear you and that, as a result, we will see if we need to question Mr. From Croo or Prime Minister. So, Mr. Ducrame, stop getting upset and let this committee work as usual when you're not here!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-02-54-commissie-ic649x.u16	Mr President, I think the Prime Minister's presence with us this morning would have been obvious. He was the one who spoke in the plenary of the House last Thursday and his remarks were indeed denied by information that arrived on Friday and Saturday and that we were able to read about. So not only were there contradictions between the Prime Minister and the Minister of Foreign Affairs, but there were contradictions between what the Prime Minister told us and what we later found. At the same time, we are being convened today for a substantive debate on our relations with Saudi Arabia, which engages far beyond the competence of the Foreign Minister. These include the financing of cults in Belgium, a whole range of aspects of our relations with that country, which threatens the peace of the world, and therefore the Prime Minister would indeed have been welcome, as well as the Minister for Cooperation, given his recent statements on Saudi Arabia, and perhaps others as well. I call for a serious, important debate, a debate that Parliament called for two years ago. A resolution, of which I had been the bearer, had been adopted unanimously by the House to hold this debate on Saudi Arabia. This debate had been set aside by the Minister for Foreign Affairs. I expect the government to take Parliament's word very seriously and finally have this substantive debate, both for reasons of contradictions within the government, contradictions between the Prime Minister's statements and revelations by the press the next day and both for reasons of substance. I repeat, I call for an in-depth debate with all the members of the government who are concerned with this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-02-54-commissie-ic649x.u17	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me go back to our colleague's formula. De Vriendt, who spoke of "watchdogs" and to say before this committee that parliamentarians in the MR Group and the majority are no less attentive, nor less "watchdogs" than their opposition colleagues. We are gathered today to hear the Foreign Minister's explanations on an important issue, just as important to us as to those of our minority colleagues. We are now witnessing a debate, with smiles on both sides, in which a request was made for the organisation of work and the presence of a minister – these are parliamentary "truths" – at which conclusions are already given. Mr President, you have shown wisdom in some of your remarks. Let us come immediately to the hearing of the Minister of Foreign Affairs. Let's hear all his explanations. And then let's see how the debate continues. Before concluding my speech, allow me to ask you with sympathy, Mr President, to make it clear that you speak in your personal capacity when you come to a conclusion and not as chairman of the committee because, in this case, you will understand that we cannot follow you. I will never blame you for expressing your opinion in a personal capacity, but when you speak as chairman of the committee, I ask you not to draw conclusions too quickly. Let us now try to start this equally important debate for our group. Let's hear the minister's explanations, and then we'll see. Mr Dallemagne, you have given us some thoughts about Saudi Arabia. We also have them and we would like them to be submitted to the committee. But I do not want to open the debate here, otherwise I will enter the parliamentary debate that I have just denounced. However, you should know that I am also familiar with parliamentary "truths" and that I also know how to use them. I would also be very interested to hear the reasons why the Walloon Region did not wish to give an opinion to the Federal Parliament on the problem of arms sales to Saudi Arabia.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-02-54-commissie-ic649x.u18	It's a crappy little game...
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-02-54-commissie-ic649x.u19	When you do it, it's not cheap! Mr President, I ask that the Minister for Foreign Affairs be heard.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-02-54-commissie-ic649x.u20	Mr President, I would like to make two brief points. Mr Miller, Mr Ducarme, there are liberals who are filling books today with our values, our standards and our model of society. As far as we are concerned, the committee chairman's freedom of expression is an integral part of this. So you shouldn't be embarrassed, you've come to a conclusion...
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-02-54-commissie-ic649x.u21	Be careful, don't mix the roles! The chairman speaks very well, but he does not speak as chairman of the committee!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-02-54-commissie-ic649x.u22	Mr President, Mr Miller's nervousness only strengthens me in the belief that you have made a conclusion there that is close to the truth or even completely on it. However, I would like to start with your concrete, pragmatic proposal to give the Minister the opportunity to give this committee a text and an explanation as soon as possible. I believe this is a logical step. He's here. We should not postpone this debate. You propose that we then consider whether the Prime Minister's presence is necessary or not. I believe that this is a reasonable proposal. What you can do, I think, is to get your hands on the Prime Minister's availability in the course of this day and in the next few days. We will soon be able to see whether or not his presence here is necessary, but at least we will know if he is available. Then there will be no practical problems with the questions. That seems to me to be a reasonable proposal. It allows us to start and then decide with full information who else needs to come and when.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-02-54-commissie-ic649x.u23	Mr President, how long can Minister Reynders stay today? Perhaps we should devote our time now to the opportunity to get answers, since he is here. We're gonna run out of prime minister or prime minister here.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-02-54-commissie-ic649x.u24	I'll repeat myself. If someone had asked me yesterday to invite Minister De Croo, I would have said no. When someone asks me by means of arguments to invite the Prime Minister, it is my right – and even my duty as committee chair – to check whether that person is right. That's what I meant. I found that there was no match. If you do not accept it, I propose to hold a debate in the near future to determine what a president can or cannot do when he decides to respond positively to a group's request. Now, I propose that you hear the minister. After this exchange, we will resume the discussion on whether to invite the Prime Minister and Minister De Croo. In the meantime, I will ask the secretariat to contact the two firms so that they can inform us of their availability later this week. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-02-54-commissie-ic649x.u25	Mr President, I am at Parliament's disposal. Firstly, since last Thursday, there has been no contradiction between what the Prime Minister has said and myself. A decision of the nuclear cabinet has now been taken in the Council of Ministers. I'm coming here with an answer from the entire government. So you can ask other members of the government to come here and they will give the same answer. That makes sense, too. After all, we in the government have taken a position on our relationship with Saudi Arabia. That is what the debate is about today. We have also taken a decision on the procedure for voting in ECOSOC. I pointed out in committee last Wednesday that I was not aware that a vote would take place. The Prime Minister didn't know about that either. It is therefore clear, as I said last week, that all diplomats in New York, Brussels and my cabinet have followed the ECOSOC's classic procedure in a very professional way. This is important and I would like to reiterate that there is no contradiction between the remarks made by the Prime Minister and myself. We have also taken decisions in Kern. I come to explain the whole government's point of view. So you can question a number of ministers in the government; they'll tell you the same thing I'm going to tell you. Indeed, we have agreed on this and things are very clear. I also said this last week: all diplomats in New York, Brussels and my office have followed the classic procedure in ECOSOC in a professional way. If the number of candidates is the same as the number of seats to be filled, all candidates shall be selected. This is called the clean slate procedure. This has been the case for at least 10 years for the Commission on the Status of Women. Thus, Iran has sat and has been elected on several occasions by the approval of all members. This happened again in 2014, as did Pakistan, for example, which was elected in 2012, in a procedure that was exactly the same, and under the same conditions. Saudi Arabia itself was elected to the Board of Directors of UN-Women in November 2013. So we have always followed the same procedure. For example, Iran and Pakistan could also be elected to the committee. The same reasoning applies to the election of Saudi Arabia to a specific United Nations body. In the present case, it was within ECOSOC, I would like to point out, to approve 38 terms of office, including 13 in the 45-member Commission on the Status of Women. All candidates were proposed and supported by their geographical area. The number of candidates corresponded to the number of places to be filled. There were as many candidates as there were seats. Again, that means a clean slate. It was therefore logical for all candidates to be elected. It was normal for us to move forward with a decision covering all the candidates. The novelty was the position of the new US administration, which wanted to break this classic procedure for reasons that remain unclear today. I repeat, I have not been personally informed of this situation and all our diplomats, including in my cabinet, have continued to apply the traditional procedure in the case of clean slate, without any positive assessment, of course, of Saudi Arabia. This was done by exchanging e-mails on the night of 18 to 19 April, until just before 4 p.m. (Belgian time), voting time in New York. I say again, I wasn't aware of the procedure. So we checked. Formal e-mails were exchanged between 1:00 p.m. and 3:30 p.m.; these are numbered e-mails. Hence the Prime Minister's response, with a delay of a few hours. Again, whether it is three hours or a few more hours, it does not change the fact that I have not been informed of the procedure and that all the services have continued to apply the traditional procedure used in the case of clean slate, with, therefore, a guarantee of geographical rotation within the organs of ECOSOC. This was exactly the same in the Prime Minister's statement as in my own, not only in Parliament but also in the press briefing after the Council of Ministers. It was clear: we were not aware. So at three o'clock or nine o'clock in the procedure, we tried to get all the information. That gave the same result, without political decision. As I said, I regret this situation. I understand the reactions and the concussion. I apologize to all those who felt sincerely struck, shocked, at the announcement of the decision taken within ECOSOC. That is why I have decided to change the procedure to ensure that political decision-making takes place even in the case of clean slate. I therefore decided to introduce a new procedure. On Thursday, I have already sent an instruction to all posts, but also to the internal service in Brussels and to my cabinet, to go to a political decision. The Council of Ministers, more precisely the nuclear cabinet, has confirmed this new procedure. I have therefore asked that from now on all voting procedures should be submitted personally to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, provided that all these procedures are submitted directly to me so that I can consult with the members of the government on these procedures. Following the decision of the Kern, a contact person has been indicated in the offices of the Prime Minister and the Deputy Prime Ministers to receive all this information on the forthcoming votes, I repeat, including when there will be the same number of candidates as seats to be filled, even in the case of a clean slate. It is very important to reach a political decision on all procedures at the United Nations. I'm willing to do more. I have always said that I am at Parliament's disposal. We will follow this procedure for all United Nations bodies and all ECOSOC committees. I am prepared to give information to Parliament and to seek a working method with Parliament to cooperate in this regard. I repeat, this is a matter of secret, confidential voting. Mr President, I would therefore like to make it clear once again that this new procedure is intended to guarantee a political decision in all cases, even when the number of seats corresponds to the number of places to be filled. There will therefore be communication to all Deputy Prime Ministers and to the Prime Minister through their collaborators. However, I am also prepared to consider with Parliament how to inform and involve Parliament in the procedure, knowing that these are normally secret votes. I'll come back. But we're in Belgium. As the Prime Minister and I have said, I regret this situation. But I also regret the interpretation that some want to give him, by unfairly criticising our country's attitude in the defence of human rights, and in particular in the defence of equality between men and women. Another vote would not have prevented the thirteen candidates from occupying the thirteen seats available. Saudi Arabia would in any case be a member of the Commission on the Status of Women, as it was a member of the Human Rights Council. In the other countries, the vote remained secret. Explaining voting positions in secret ballots is unusual. No ECOSOC country, including the Western countries, is prepared to explain its voting position in ECOSOC following the election of Saudi Arabia to the CSW. Even the United States, which provoked the vote, did not make a statement. I asked our post in New York for more information, but the other countries refused to comment on the vote. But, with 47 out of 54 votes in favour of Saudi Arabia, it is clear that several other members of the European Union and other Western countries have expressed the same vote as Belgium, perhaps for the same reasons. In the future, we will try European consultation to forge a common position and a real ability to influence, even in the case of clean slate. Without consultation at European level, there are different opinions and different votes, with no influence on the final result. I repeat, not only Saudi Arabia but also other countries with strange human rights situations are now members of the Human Rights Council or of the Commission. In any event, as in the Human Rights Council, we will be leading the debate in the Commission on the Status of Women. We do this systematically in Geneva. The same will be true in New York. Moreover, I would like to recall that many observers want this debate to be held in the United Nations bodies, confronting all countries with our human rights requirements. I think it is our job to really include the defence of human rights and gender equality in a committee like the Human Rights Council. This can be done either in cooperation with other European countries or on the basis of our own position. Our attitude has always been, and will remain, to use all bilateral or multilateral meetings to criticize human rights violations, in particular to denounce the plight of women in Saudi Arabia, as in a number of other countries. This attitude led me, for example, to plead in this country for the abolition of the death penalty and for the defence of individual cases, such as that of Raif Badawi, expressly, in this publicly understood way, before Saudi public opinion. That is why the government wants – and I have come this morning, in principle, also for this – to start the debate, which is on your agenda, about our relations with Saudi Arabia. There is no doubt about the need to put the defence of human rights, and in particular the status of women, at the forefront. I hope that it is a very general position, in your assembly as in the government, to always include the defence of human rights in a first point in talks with Saudi Arabia, and certainly equality between men and women. We will also have to implement the conclusions that will be drawn by this House from its work in terms of radicalism. I think it will be necessary, after reading the conclusions on radicalism, to draw a number of lessons from our relations with Saudi Arabia. We cannot evade the debate on our economic interests in our relations with Saudi Arabia. Thus, in my personal capacity, I believe that the federal government should no longer participate in economic missions to Saudi Arabia without a genuine human rights assessment, carried out by the government and your assembly. The Regions decide if they want to lead one on their side. I would remind them that they are the ones who choose the countries to which we visit in the context of the missions of the Agency for Foreign Trade. In the past, it was always possible to organise an economic mission for foreign trade in Saudi Arabia based on a request from the Regions. The last mission was from 14 to 18 March 2014, with Princess Astrid and 350 businessmen. I was present with Mrs Fremault of the Brussels Region and Mr Marcort for the Walloon Region. During this mission, as is the case in all these bilateral meetings, even during economic missions, I pleaded for women's rights, for the abolition of the death penalty by addressing directly to the Crown Prince, now king of Saudi Arabia. I will always do that in our bilateral contacts. That was in 2014. The mission was led by Princess Astrid. I accompanied her and Minister Fremault for the Brussels Region and Minister Marcourt for the Walloon Region. The previous mission had taken place in October 2009. It was led by Prince Philip, who since then has become our king. He was accompanied by Mr. Leterme, Mr. Van Quickenborne and Mr Marcourt. Once again, in a personal capacity, I ask that there be no more presence of the federal government in a foreign trade mission to Saudi Arabia, if there is no real determination, by the government and your assembly, of progress on human rights and equality between men and women. I do not want to hear so much about our presence there, because there is a question from the regions. I do not want to see such a conflict between the demands of the regions and our positions, which we defend in bilateral contacts on all principles. I would like to add that I also wish, in the context of the debate that must be opened, that we clarify the role that I must ask to play at our embassy. It is also obvious that, after the many debates of previous days and after such an important committee, it is necessary to do so. I need to know the real tasks of our embassy in Riyadh. The Walloon Region and Flanders have established a representation of their commercial agencies in our embassy, FIT and AWEX. I would like to discuss with you the support that our embassy should or should not give to Belgian companies in their efforts in Saudi Arabia. In recent days and weeks, I have received questions from a number of companies to get support from our embassy for their activities in Saudi Arabia. I don't want to say anything for or against right now. All I've said is I'm asking you to stop having the federal government on a foreign trade mission. Nevertheless, I have asked for an opinion on this. I no longer want a double standard applied. On the one hand, we hear a statement that it is a disgrace to engage with Saudi Arabia, even a real discussion in a specific committee on human rights and equality between men and women, on the other hand, specific companies or sectors are asking for support for their activities in Saudi Arabia. I therefore simply ask that we have this debate. I know from experience that some economic issues are more sensitive. I would like to reiterate that I personally support an embargo on the sale of arms to Saudi Arabia. Are the regions ready, in the field of human rights and gender equality, to act through an initiative of our country or Benelux, to set an example, as we are asked to do? Or is the position, which I have heard correctly, still to be argued at European level for a common decision, which we know will be very difficult and very long to obtain? I repeat that, as requested, I will call for a consensus at European level on an arms embargo. However, I have learned from my many contacts that this may not be impossible but is still very difficult to achieve and that its creation will take a very long time. So do we ask, as in the Human Rights Council, to take an initiative and will we set an example from Belgium or ask for a consensus at European level, knowing that it may take a very long time before a decision is taken at European level? Similarly, in order to feed your debate, I hope that we can take an attitude, particularly in the missions of our embassy on the spot, concerning the dissemination of information on measures to attract Saudi investment to Belgium. I have another question. Is it normal for our embassy to contact possible Saudi-Arab investors, to whom we can offer attractive federal and regional measures for investments in Belgium? I think that is also very important. Again, I am opposed to the presence of the federal government in a foreign trade mission if no real progress is made on respect for human rights. I am in favour of an arms embargo. I ask for clarity and a debate on the role of our embassy on foreign trade and investment in general. Mr President, I will let the debate take place. In conclusion, I want to reaffirm my commitment, that of the government, that of the majority and, I hope, that of the whole Parliament, to the promotion of human rights, in particular equality between men and women. It's done and clear. I have always said, in all the debates on our general foreign policy, that the defence of human rights and equality between men and women is a real priority for Belgium. But we also want to avoid any ambiguity on this subject, and that is why we have changed the voting procedures. These changes take into account our desire to involve Parliament. I'm ready to discuss the form. I think that for secret votes, the first phase should take place in camera. However, with a few weeks of experience in Belgian politics, I fear that even when the doors are closed, the windows will be opened. However, I would find it normal for Parliament to accept at least a first in camera exchange. If we consider that there are problems, then we can do otherwise, but I would like to point out that these are voting procedures which, in principle, take place by secret ballot. So far, I have not heard any country agree to speak on the subject. But we have chosen to avoid any ambiguity and to change the procedure. We are ready to discuss how Parliament can be involved. I am prepared to do the same with Parliament. But it is also necessary to make all the clarity – let me say it, for it is my conviction – without hypocrisy depending on whether we sit in the majority or in the opposition, or even in the federal or in a region, on all aspects of our relations with Saudi Arabia – which have been at the heart of the discussions of recent days. I stand at your disposal to conduct this debate, as do the government as a whole. Having said that, you will understand that, when it comes to external relations, the government naturally instructs me to discuss it with you. However, if Parliament so wishes, there may be more hearings. I have made one or two remarks in my personal capacity, because I pledge that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs will no longer participate in foreign trade missions in Saudi Arabia until we see progress in terms of human rights and gender equality. Everything else reflects the position of the federal government, which was confirmed on Friday, I repeat, without having been informed at any time of the procedure that was under way – whether it be myself or other members of the government. The debate that I hear you want to develop and that deals with the varying number of hours that preceded the vote does not change the fact that the government and I were not aware of it, nor the absence of contradictions in the answers that have been given. I give you the position of the government today. Since I am well aware of the exercise of Parliament, I understand of course that procedural and factual debates are taking place. However, I would like to see agreement to open what was on the agenda, namely the debate on our relations with Saudi Arabia. After such a commotion, it is necessary to have a real debate about our relations, at all levels. I repeat that we are defending respect for human rights and equality between men and women, but I also have to live with a number of questions, which I understand, from different governments concerning, among other things, foreign trade. Perhaps it is time to strike a proper balance with all the groups.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-02-54-commissie-ic649x.u26	Thank you, Minister. I always follow the order of magnitude of the groups, so I shall first give the floor to the N-VA, to Mrs Capoen.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-02-54-commissie-ic649x.u27	Thank you, Minister, for your explanation. This committee and your explanation were requested by the opposition. If the opposition in plenary has listened carefully to the other groups, then it has also heard that the N-VA was in full agreement with this and that we had even proposed to do so today in conjunction with the already planned sitting. We also agreed to clarify the events of 19 April, as it was not clear to us for a moment either. We do think that today we are doing the right thing to split up the debate. On the one hand, we need to look further at the events of 19 April, on the other hand, we need to look at our positions on human rights and their possible consequences in our contacts with Saudi Arabia and, possibly, trade relations. I think that the time available to us today, thanks to the very extensive regulation of the work, will be too limited to go into this further. I think we should postpone this to another meeting. So today I would just like to concentrate on the events of 19 April. As we know, there were 13 candidates for 13 vacancies. In principle, therefore, there was no need for a vote. The outcome would be the same anyway: Saudi Arabia would become a member of the Women's Council. Period. There was an extraordinary vote after all. The N-VA also tried to figure out the chronology of that day, as the opposition did. We too have made the puzzle, which seems to be somewhat different from that of the opposition. I have the impression that the opposition is starting to hallucinate occasionally and oppositions see within the government where they are not. We have discovered in our puzzle that there has indeed been mail traffic from Mr Pecsteen, our permanent representative at the UN. That e-mail was answered immediately or not. That's a little bit of a blur. Perhaps you could explain this, Minister, because the answer from the cabinet was indeed rather late. As I understand it, Mr Pecsteen received an answer in New York at 9:34 a.m. when the vote began at 10:00 a.m. That does indeed seem to be a very short period of time. Perhaps you could clarify this later? What caused the delay? With regard to the statements made by Minister Reynders, last Tuesday in committee, and the Prime Minister, last Thursday in plenary, the N-VA Group does not see any major contradictions. They may not have been communicative, but we have not found any contradictions in terms of content. Nor have we found any arguments to show that diplomats would have acted in their own right. On the basis of what we now know and have been able to puzzle, both on the basis of formal statements and on the basis of information we have tried to obtain through informal contacts, we do not immediately see an insurmountable problem in what happened on 19 April, even though the outcome of that day may not have been what the N-VA Group had hoped for. There was a procedure for a clean slate. It's been followed. The N-VA Group has no reason to believe that Minister Reynders was personally aware and would have made a false statement. We do not think Mr Pecsteen acted on his own. We therefore believe that the procedure that was in place has been followed as such. Is it a good procedure? That is a completely different question, which we may be able to address later. We suspect that the situation as we know it today has perhaps been beaten up by the opposition with a great deal of drama or that there is simply too much fixation of certain parties in Saudi Arabia. Let us not forget, the Minister also referred to it, there are other countries on that committee that we have not made any great drama of. Some of those countries, when we look at the Gender Inequality Index, score even worse than Saudi Arabia. This vote was not perfect, but perhaps we should not concentrate so much on that one country and we should open up the discussion here. That is what we are following, Minister. We had a number of questions, which you have largely already answered by saying that you will change the procedure. The only questions left for us today are the following. I quoted it at the beginning of my speech. How could this communication between Mr Pecsteen and the cabinet fail? After all, we believe that there has been some time that may not have been necessary. Even though the outcome wouldn't have changed, it might have been a bit tricky there. We also wonder, in the procedure that was common until then, whether it is normal that communication does not flow through to either the head of the cabinet or the minister. Don't you think that's a bad thing? Above all, we wonder whether we should not have anticipated the worst case scenario, which is a vote, even if it was not planned. Wouldn't it have been a more professional treatment of the subject to prepare for the worst case scenario? You say you want to change the clean slate procedure. The N-VA Group would like to stress that this is of course not a small beer. We're not just gonna turn this around all of a sudden. All change is welcome, and we are absolutely in agreement with it, but we would like to point out that there is no easy way to go there. If we leave this clean slate procedure, it is very important for us to determine the framework within which this will happen. What objective criteria will we use for this? Which countries will we assess? Are we going to judge all countries? On what criteria? Of course, countries where women's or other human rights are known for everyone are less well followed or even not followed at all. These countries can, of course, be easily removed. But what about other countries where it is less clear and where there is less press coverage? Will we judge in the same way? For us, it is important how this procedure will be linked to European policy. Normally, as far as possible, we try to block the vote in Europe. This probably didn't happen now. Probably not every European country has used the same clean slate procedure as we have. It is important to continue to coordinate with our European colleagues. One final point I would like to make is that it is absolutely appropriate for the N-VA Group to hold the debate on this issue. We need to discuss how the procedure can be implemented. We are ready to discuss this with everyone. If we question the policy, there must be a good alternative. A good, clear, binding and, above all, objective framework must be created to deal with such matters in the future so that we do not once again face the emotion of the day. Our voting behaviour must not depend on whether or not to create a drama or press coverage, which may not always be objective.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-02-54-commissie-ic649x.u28	Mr President, Minister, I thank you for the comments you made and, above all, for the apology you made. I was personally and sincerely struck by this vote at the United Nations and I was personally and sincerely struck by the way you responded to us on Wednesday, because you seemed to minimize what you said and, moreover, you sought, through your answer, to hide what had really happened and to minimize the facts, which were, however, extremely serious. I said it and I want to repeat it, I am happy to hear your apology today and I think they are sincere. I also believe that what has happened will allow us to hold a sincere and comprehensive debate on the procedures that are at work in international forums, whether it be the United Nations, the World Bank or other structures, where secret ballots are taking place and where, unfortunately, we do not have enough information on what is said in it, on the votes cast and on the line that is held by our diplomacy. On the other hand, I am pleased to hear that you are opening the door to parliamentarians by agreeing to hold a debate here on the line you wish today to print to our diplomacy in international forums. That's for thanks and flowers! In spite of this, you suspect that there are still many questions, as far as I am concerned, about what has happened in the last few days. I want to put the debate back in context and highlight the subject of our meeting this morning. What are we talking about this morning? And why are we here? Because at some point, Belgium voted in favour of Saudi Arabia's admission to the Women's Rights Commission. There has been a vote, and it is at this level that the problem arises. We can point to procedure, diplomacy, services. If there are indeed difficulties at this level, however, I cannot accept that this procedure is being used to excuse, justify or fail to fulfil its political responsibilities. Our country has given a unique gift to a country that does not recognize women's rights. It is a gift that is meaningful and that greatly decredifies our country on the international stage. As I said, and I repeat, it is a slap on women's rights all over the world, but above all, on women's rights in Saudi Arabia, who are the first victims of this bloodthirsty regime. I believe that we cannot justify this vote – but that is what you have done, and I regret it – invoking the fact that Saudi Arabia would have been elected anyway. We could have achieved a different vote, which would have "broadened". I come to the question of whether there are any contradictions between what you said, what the Prime Minister said and what Mr Alexander De Croo said. After reading the transcripts, I came to the conclusion that there are contradictions. You are minimizing them, which I can understand, but there are contradictions in particular with regard to the time that has elapsed between the time when the request for a vote was made and the time when it was made. This weekend, we were also able to read your signed e-mails confirming your request that a positive vote be taken on this candidacy. So there were contradictions, which I regret. In any event, we must move forward today, and I was pleased to hear that Kern had met to consider new procedures in this context. Nevertheless, Minister, I would like to ask you about this new procedure. What is the situation in practice? How will Kern position itself when such votes take place? On the basis of what criteria will you evaluate the vote to be cast? Would you like to discuss this with us again, or has Kern already adopted a position on this matter? How do you explain the contradictions between the Prime Minister and yourself regarding the time between the time when the vote was requested and the time when the vote took place? I ask the question even if I think you're not going to answer it because you say there's no discordance. I have heard you call for a comprehensive debate on Saudi Arabia, including with the Regions. I am very pleased to have heard from you on this point and to have heard your personal views on the matter. Has Kern debated a joint position with regard to its diplomatic relations with Saudi Arabia or is it your personal position, in particular on the role of embassies in external trade or in supporting Saudi investment in Belgium? Is it a Kern position or a personal position? If this is a government position, can you detail it? Finally, I welcome the debate we will have with you on what we want to defend in terms of any relationship with Saudi Arabia. This debate will have led to the evolution of many positions, including yours. You have been very demanding so that we can move forward faster and stronger than Europe. I would sometimes like to hear you defend the same speech, especially when we discuss relations between Belgium and the State of Israel.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-02-54-commissie-ic649x.u29	Mr. Chair, Mr.Minister, thank you very much for this clarification, for your answers to my colleagues' legitimate questions. It is obviously important to understand the procedures, also to see what has been a problem in this case, and how we can remedy this in the future, in order to avoid such a result, which I regret, of course. I'm a woman too, Minister. My party is committed to women's rights, human rights. We are trying to be at the forefront in this area through resolutions that we are carrying here. We do so regularly, with great enthusiasm, including with our opposition colleagues. That is why, Mr Minister, if I regret this vote, I regret even more the assumptions that have been made on the margins of this vote, because they also run into me. They also affect everything we do with your support to advance human rights in the world and, of course, women's rights. We will continue to do so in Europe, throughout the world and also in our country, we must remember. As far as the procedure is concerned, you have made it clear what has led to this result. I understand that we will probably not deal with the substance of the matter today with regard to the resolution. I will deliver this opinion and intervention later. Minister, I would like to know how these procedures will work in the future. They will ask for personal information from you and the government. I welcome the proposal to involve our Parliament more closely in these decision-making processes. Being informed in good time seems to me a good thing, although I must note that we will probably be the only country in the world to do so, minister. This obviously raises questions of practicability and trust in our committee. I also wonder about that. Minister, I would like some information, but I do not know if you can answer me. Several European countries have probably found themselves in the same situation as us, through this vote requested in extremis by the Trump administration. Do we know which countries today? I hear that a debate similar to ours could take place in Sweden; other countries such as France or Norway have already said that they would not declare their country's position by virtue of the secrecy of the vote. Do we have any further information on this? I would also like to talk a few minutes back. I am talking not only about Saudi Arabia, but also about other countries with which we have multiple relations and interests. How can we, in the future, be clearer with our diplomats as to the lines they must follow? I fully understand that it is not easy to combine strong and precise demands for respect for human rights and gender equality with economic interests. So, Mr President, in my view, we must hold this substantive debate. I also hope that we can and our minister will know what is happening on this point.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-02-54-commissie-ic649x.u30	Thank you, Minister, for your detailed explanation. Your apologies have also been accepted. It is clear that diplomacy and also the cabinet have applied existing procedures. It was indeed business as usual, it was a clean slate with as many candidates as open posts. So there was no real round of voting. In the past Iran and Saudi Arabia have also been accepted into the Human Rights Council. There was no debate on that in Parliament either. This UN Committee on Women's Rights also included many conservative countries, notably Bahrain, Qatar, Kuwait, Algeria and Iran. There has been a bit of an imbalance by adding Saudi Arabia to this, but a UN logic, of course, talks to everyone. That does not alter the fact that this diplomatic calculation clashed with a political reality. That is what happened today: a crisis has erupted. Not just in Belgium. As the honourable Member said, this was also the case in Norway. Parliamentary debates are also taking place in the Netherlands. I do not know if you know of other countries that voted in favour and what the reactions are there? Women's rights have become a very sensitive issue. Of course, that has to do with the prevailing Muslim extremistism. With the attacks linked to it, this has become a very sensitive issue in public opinion. It has been observed around the world that anti-gender movements have emerged which have led to this discussion being much higher on the agenda than before. It is therefore strange that there has been no alarm in diplomacy, but this has also been corrected. On the one hand, we are talking about the procedure, on the other hand, we must also talk about the Commission for the Status of Women. That is a committee of ECOSOC which holds its meetings every year. I have already taken part in this myself. They'll notice it's just a committee. I believe that we should put that committee higher on the political agenda in the future, precisely because there are a lot of conservative countries in it. To say that this committee no longer has any real credibility because of the fact that those countries are on that committee is incorrect. We should have given Saudi Arabia the signal that for us their women's rights have reached a lower limit, but that we still want to talk to them, of course, to confront them with the facts. They must also submit a report every five years to the Commission on the status of women on the progress made. Let us therefore take advantage of these moments to point out that such treatment is too far-reaching, that it must be discussed and that it is no longer accepted internationally. I would therefore ask the Committee on Women's Status to be placed higher on the agenda and also to hold a debate in Parliament on our attitude to certain violations of women's and human rights in those Gulf States, which have taken a step in this direction and have certainly reached a lower limit which is unacceptable. We have, of course, been caught in speed by the United States. We can only guess what's behind it. I have consulted a number of international websites in this area. There seems to be a problem with Israel as well. The important Commission for the Status of Women has also in the past adopted a resolution on Palestinian women, which, among other things, has not been welcomed by Israel. These countries have every interest in undermining the credibility of that committee. So my question and my advice is not to give in to that and not to throw the child away with the bath water, but to attach great importance to that committee and to go into confrontation and debate with those conservative countries. It is very good that you have now adjusted the procedures so that such events can no longer happen in the future and that Parliament is also involved in the debate. The women's activists in Saudi Arabia will also be very pleased with the debate, because their violated women's rights in the current crisis, in every crisis, is an opportunity that is at last so high on the political agenda. That's a positive note in the negative. On the double standard, I welcome your desire to enter into the debate in Parliament. It is urgent to use women's rights not only as a touchstone in development cooperation. It is quite clear that, for the first time in the current government, women's rights are so high on the development cooperation agenda. This must be done both in our diplomatic relations and in our economic relations. It still wrings a little bit in that respect. I think there is an urgent need for some sort of gradation policy. We cannot, of course, abolish trade with all countries in which human rights are violated. That is impossible, there would not be many countries left to trade with. However, I believe that there is an urgent need for a moral compass, a gradation policy, which not only respects development cooperation, but also links economic, military and diplomatic relations. It must be made clear when any restraint is appropriate from embassies and from economic relations. Minister, we welcome the debate you want to take on this in Parliament, so that we are no longer wrangled with certain human rights and women's rights in particular. Secretary of State Pieter De Crem has already confirmed that no trade missions are planned with Saudi Arabia. It is good that we make this a principle for the future. A second important point is the arms embargo. I think Flanders is very progressive in this and I think we should make it clear from the federal level that we expect this from Wallonia as well. After all, it is hypocritical that the PS, on the one hand, comes to blow high off the tower and, on the other hand, continues to supply arms from Wallonia. A third important point in economic relations is that we must also attach importance to the national human rights and business action plan. This is under discussion at government level, but I think that we should also debate this in Parliament urgently, so that we can decide which moral compass we will use in our bilateral relations. A global freeze, as you have made clear, can only be achieved at multilateral level. Moreover, the past has shown that our relations with Iran have not been successful. In this way, there can be no longer any debate. The door with Iran was slammed shut. In Iran too, women were isolated and women's rights were not improved by the fact that that door was closed. By keeping the door open for a while and still introducing a moral compass into our relations with some restraint, we will achieve much more. I welcome the debate and hope, as a feminist, that women's rights will not only be at the heart of development cooperation in the future, but also in our diplomatic and economic relations.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-02-54-commissie-ic649x.u31	Mr President, after this debate on what has happened, we must, above all, look ahead and see what lessons we can draw from it. Firstly, we note that multilateral diplomacy cannot be a business as usual. Human rights must play a much more important and important role in this than perhaps is the case today. Now that Saudi Arabia has been elected to the Committee on Women's Rights, I would like to call, Minister, for us to do all we can to push the country's noses on the facts about women's rights in the country. You talked about a procedure within the government that you are adjusting, but I think we should also consider how Belgium, as a small country, can also adjust the procedures in the multilateral institutions. There is no doubt that it is easy to become a member of the Women's Rights Committee without having to sign a letter or an intent, with the effective support of the universal rights of men and women: we are not yet in our country where we have to stand, but we do have the ambition to work towards it in a certain way. None of that is happening right now. If the country really wants to become a member of the Women's Rights Committee, then it is only logical that we should give it not only the fine quality label of a member of the Women's Rights Committee, but that we should also adopt and shaming and put the country at international level in the spotlight on the women's rights that are being shamelessly violated at the moment. I would urge you, Minister, to give the Permanent Representation a clear mandate in this direction, so that the Committee on Women's Rights is still pressed with the noses of the facts. Secondly, in relation to the procedure agreed within the government. If I am not mistaken, this procedure concerns only the clean slate votes. Should we not extend that to other votes? It is good that a procedure is being established, but we need to think about how we can proceed. After all, some votes, not in a clean slate, require a debate. Minister, I welcome your outstretched hand to Parliament. It would indeed be good if your policy paper contained a section each year on how to deal with the multilateral votes. Not a vote by vote, but in general what are the important points of view for us. During your speech, you rightly pointed out how we should deal with this in the area of trade. We will have to consider what human rights are worth to us. It is easy to be embarrassed in a particular vote, but let us look at the whole picture and see how far we can go. It would also be good to report annually to Parliament on the important votes that have taken place. In this way, we can look at Belgium's position in advance and afterwards. I understand that some votes are secret and that the committees involved take place behind closed doors. We can discuss such modalities. In any case, I will put forward a motion for a resolution on this subject which can be discussed with all my fellow Members, so that things become clear and we should not be offended ad hocly, so not just about women's rights in Saudi Arabia. We must be able to conduct the debate in full. After all, we also have trade agreements or cooperation agreements with other countries in which human rights are violated. I therefore urge Parliament to be involved in this! Finally, you have already referred to the clarity you want from the embassies. At the embassies one can attract investment, or just not. I would like to see this more broadly and analyse how we can use trade agreements to do so. I know that a large part of the powers in this area are at European level, but I believe that. Look at how the European Commission has at some point increased the reduced import duties for Sri Lanka because there was too much child labour and torture. At the beginning of this year, customs duties were reduced back because of the adoption of a number of international conventions and because a plan was drawn up to ensure that they are on the right track. I wouldn't just limit it to our embassies and what we can do. What about the relationship between human rights and economic interests? We must also include the trade agreements because we see that this is working effectively. If import tariffs are to be distorted and increased, economic life will be affected and there will be internal pressure to bring human rights more to the fore. I believe that we all believe that this vote was not a good thing. Minister, I welcome your apology. Let us now look ahead and develop procedures, both in the government and in Parliament, taking into account the important part of the trade agreements in order to find solutions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-02-54-commissie-ic649x.u32	Madam President, Minister, once again you prove that you are a cunning fox. You succeed in diverting attention from what happened on Wednesday, Thursday and Friday with regard to a vote by Belgium in the UN, by holding this committee the root of a thorough discussion on Saudi Arabia from which conclusions need to be drawn. Although this is something that I and my group have been calling for for a long time, I will not fall into the trap that you are proposing to this committee, which is to jump right up there. After all, I think that what has happened is extremely serious. I read three of your quotes from last week's committee on Wednesday 26 April. First quotation: I was not aware of the question of a vote. Tweede city: I can confirm that I was not aware that a vote was going to take place. Derde city: I tell you again that I didn't know about it. That was the information that my fellow Members were given in committee. Tijdens het debat in de plenaire vergadering zei de premier: A request was made for a vote to take place. We have been informed of this. You said you were not aware of the request for a vote. The Prime Minister says: 'We were aware of the request for a vote.' Ik quote from first nogmaals: There were only a few hours between the time the Belgian Ministry of Foreign Affairs was informed of this and the time when the reply was to be communicated. There were nine hours in between. That was Thursday. Friday we heard there was mail traffic. It is clear from this mail traffic that your cabinet, Minister, had been informed that there would be a vote and that, contrary to what was said at the beginning, your cabinet, which was a most personal initiative of a diplomat in New York, had given the order to vote yes. I do not give that story for the pleasure of giving it, but because two basic basic rules of the functioning of our parliamentary democracy were violated. The first basic rule, Minister, is that what a cabinet does is the same as what a minister decides. Save all manuals on constitutional law and all books on the functioning of Belgian politics: the cabinet is equal to the minister. This isn't about the first of the best. It concerns the Permanent Representative in New York, who is your former Head of Cabinet, someone you have chosen to be your Head of Cabinet and someone you have chosen to represent Belgium in the Permanent Representation. Here in Brussels are the cabinet members, whom you yourself have chosen. The hand of Didier Reynders, the decision of Didier Reynders, through those intermediaries, is indisputable. You are politically responsible for this, whether you like it or not. Other ministers in the past were further removed from the decisions taken by their Cabinets, drawing their conclusions and resigning. However, I note that you, Minister for Foreign Affairs, do not draw your conclusions from this. Ladies and gentlemen, there is a second basic rule, perhaps the most important one. That rule is very important for political hygiene in decision-making in our country, which must form the basis for a minimum of confidence between opposition and majority in a parliament or, in other words, between a government and all Members of Parliament, namely: a minister must tell the truth in Parliament and not withhold anything. You, Minister for Foreign Affairs, held back that your cabinet, so yourself, was aware of the fact that there was a vote. You had nine hours to do that. My group leader said that she would have only needed one second to decide that we could not vote for it. Your cabinet has decided to vote yes. Moreover, you have given the order to vote yes and you have not said so in committee. So you have betrayed the confidence of all Members of Parliament, both the opposition and the majority. I am sorry, but that is something that I hope we will and will continue to work, both majority and opposition. Mr Minister, I would ask you to deliver to our committee or to the Chamber all the documents, including all the e-mails relating to the matter, so that we can look at them. The next point in my speech concerns policy. I would like to respond to your request for a substantive debate on Saudi Arabia. I've been asking you that for a long time. So you will have the full support of our group. We are clearly seeing today the painful spread between the words of the government and its actions. I accept the government agreement; I can also take your latest policy paper. It highlights the fact that respect for human rights is a cornerstone of our foreign policy and that, in particular, women's rights are our battlefield. Those are the words of the government. However, when I look at the actions, I note that if it is to be applied to Saudi Arabia, there is a shock reaction. They put ten pairs of gloves on to approach that country. Let me give you three examples of this. The last vote is a first example. That's not a normal reaction. If that is considered politically, we cannot vote in favour of it. I am sorry, Minister, but the fact that this would not change the outcome and that Saudi Arabia would still be part of the relevant committee, well, we might as well have voted no. But no, your cabinet, so Didier Reynders, has given orders to vote yes. Let me give you another example to show you how careful and almost submissive we are looking at Saudi Arabia. When their king was buried in 2014, we were one of the few Western democracies. I think there were two of us who sent their own head of state, our king, to that funeral. I have already protested at that time and called that a wrong signal. By the way, while we are discussing this, there is yet another fact to which you may be able to give me an answer, Mr Minister. Last night, I read a tweet from a serious source which states that, in the context of the general review of the human rights situation in Bahrain, all European countries are defending the claim to request a moratorium on the death penalty from Bahrain. Minister, I ask you whether it is true that Belgium is the only country asking Bahrain to apply the death penalty only to serious crimes. Ladies and gentlemen, do we agree with that question? I thought the abolition of the death penalty alongside women's rights was one of the key elements in our policy on respect for human rights. Minister, I would like to hear from you whether what is said in that statement is true or not? If that's true, then we have another proof. Minister, you are proposing a new procedure, but that procedure is contrary to the customary law in Belgian politics that a minister is equal to his cabinet. If I understand you correctly, does your proposal mean that in an important vote the Minister should be contacted? In that case, we can actually abolish your cabinet, right? Surely it is fiction that as Foreign Minister, you must be personally contacted by our diplomats in the outposts for everything. That's not gonna work, is it? It is no coincidence that the information comes from the posts in the Cabinets, where the information is filtered. When it comes to politically sensitive matters, it is discussed with the Minister. In order to allow parliamentary control, Belgian politics generally accepted, even though that is a fiction, that the position of cabinet employees is similar to that of the minister. That's what you're trying to come back to now. Finally, I have been in favour of the arms embargo for decades, so you have my support for that. I would like to discuss your request for federal presence in trade missions and support from the Belgian Embassy to FIT and AWEX. However, what I expect from the government and what was announced three years ago in the government agreement is a note on companies and human rights. We must first receive that note on companies and human rights, which has been announced to us several times, and on the basis of that note we can take a position on what that means in the case of Saudi Arabia. Finally, I have tabled a number of amendments to the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr van Groen. One of these amendments means that we want a very detailed report on Belgium's positions bilaterally and multilaterally vis-à-vis Saudi Arabia and that this report must be evaluated in the Chamber. To this end, we would like to give Amnesty International, Human Rights Watch and other human rights organisations a hand in assisting Parliament in the evaluation of this report. My group will strongly insist on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-02-54-commissie-ic649x.u33	Mr President, I would like to make the following point. It is clear that the commotion of recent days must lead to a different policy towards Saudi Arabia. I do not think that anyone who has common sense can or should doubt that. However, Green and Ecolo have been working on the issue of Saudi Arabia for longer than today, which is why we tabled a resolution some time ago asking the Belgian Government to develop fundamentally different relations with Saudi Arabia. This resolution is on the table. She's on the agenda. We all have an opportunity, both government parties and opposition parties, to do things differently and better by adopting that resolution. We will then have no time to waste, and we will be able to achieve a more correct and honest relationship with that country which violates human rights, women's rights, on such a fundamental scale.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-02-54-commissie-ic649x.u34	The government has two problems. You have two problems. Belgium is a country that has supported Saudi Arabia in formulating recommendations on women's rights. In order to cover that up, the truth has been kept from Parliament and the people as a whole in recent days. Fortunately, this has now been proven, and fortunately, our group has been able to lay its hands on the e-mail traffic that clearly demonstrates this. Belgium, the Belgian Government, has agreed to join Saudi Arabia in the committee dealing with the status of women within the UN, the Economic and Social Council (ECOSOC). On Wednesday evening you defended that vote, Minister. Wednesday evening Alexander De Croo also defended the voting behaviour of our country. The question now arises as to whether, as a Parliament, we allow Parliament, the parliament, and also the people to be deceived about what has happened in recent days and about the decision and voting behaviour of the government. On Wednesday 26 April I asked you this question here in this House. You said I didn't know. Belgium, I, didn't know anything. On Thursday 27 April, the Prime Minister said that Foreign Affairs was aware. The civil servants. Gwendolyn Rutten, party chairman of Open Vld, said it was a mistake of the diplomats and that politics had nothing to do with it and the government had much less to do with it. On Friday 28 April, in the press conference after the Council of Ministers, you said that you only had three hours to decide on this. The Prime Minister had said earlier that we had only had a few hours; it is a mistake; an accident the course. This contradicts the information that has emerged from the official, formal e-mail traffic. Ladies and gentlemen, it must be said, what if our group could not have put our hands on those e-mails? Can we, as a Parliament, think about this? As a Parliament, we would have lived with the delusion of a government which had only had a few hours of effective action or of the scenario in which diplomats had to decide and politically not involved at all. Luckily, we managed to get our hands on those e-mails. However, it is bad to see in a democracy that Parliament and the public can be deceived by a government, by a minister, days at a time. Parliament is a watchdog. We must ensure that our policies are implemented in an honest, normal manner, with respect for human rights, something we shout off the roofs every day. However, it has now been shown that this has not been the case at all with Saudi Arabia. We have had to learn that from e-mail traffic, not because the Minister has been honest with Parliament, not because the Prime Minister has been honest with Parliament. What's in those e-mails now? That we had nine hours to think about it, that the Reynders' cabinet was not only informed to you, but that you also gave the green light to support Saudi Arabia. The mail is signed by you with your name, Reynders. We learn that the De Croo cabinet was involved in e-mail traffic. We also learn that from the cabinet you ordered the diplomats to inform all candidates, including Saudi Arabia, about our country's support for their candidacy. That's written in black and white in the e-mail traffic that comes from you, from your cabinet. We can draw three conclusions from this. Firstly, you have kept the truth from Parliament and the people. Secondly, our country has voted in full awareness for Saudi Arabia in the UN Women's Rights Commission. We had nine hours to think about it. So this isn't an accident the course. Thirdly, you are politically responsible for this decision. Colleagues, one case is not in e-mail traffic. One element isn't in the e-mails. Do you know what element? These are women's rights and human rights. There is an exchange of arguments in those e-mails, but there is no mention of it. However, we are voting Saudi Arabia in a United Nations Women's Rights Commission to make recommendations to other countries that do less about human rights. What authority can that committee still work with when Saudi Arabia completely paralyses and sabotages the operation of that women's rights committee? Colleagues, the moral reputation of our country is gone. We know and everyone in the world knows that Belgium voted for this accession. We shouldn't have done that. At the same time, we are organising conferences in Benin and we are working here in Brussels on women's rights. Minister, with what authority and with what moral authority will we be able to do that, after the voting behaviour you ordered our diplomats in New York? Congratulations. I have questions for you, many questions. After all, you have pushed the hot potato through and completely avoided it in your explanatory statement. Firstly, why was a version given to Parliament on Wednesday and Thursday that is not in line with reality? Why didn't you declare on Wednesday that your cabinet gave the green light to that yes vote in favour of Saudi Arabia? Why didn't you tell me you had nine hours to make that decision? Secondly, I want a complete overview of the chronology of the decision-making that has taken place. You just spoke in six words about an e-mail of 1 p.m. First of all, I want a copy of that e-mail. Secondly, I want you to clarify that e-mail. I also want a copy of all the documents and e-mails exchanged on the file. Thirdly, who was consulted on the unannounced vote? Who was informed within your cabinet? Who sent the e-mail to our diplomacy in New York stating that they could vote yes at Saudi Arabia's candidacy? You signed the e-mail. How do you explain that? For my fourth question, I'm looking at the e-mails. I read in the e-mails of our diplomats, of our permanent representation at the UN, the following addressed to you: "On the basis of previous informal consultations with your services, this post will vote for all the above-mentioned candidates, including Saudi Arabia. Diplomacy at the UN claims that this also happens on the basis of earlier informal consultation with your services, so much longer than the original e-mail that was sent a little after midnight on 19 April, so rather than the vote, rather than the entire e-mail correspondence. What informal consultation is this about, Minister? Can you tell Parliament about this? It is not just a few hours, it is not just three hours, it is apparently already much longer than nine hours that there has been an exchange and consultation on Belgium's voting behaviour with regard to Saudi Arabia's candidacy. What kind of informal consultation is this about? What's this about, what our diplomats are talking about? Fifth, how on earth can you, your cabinet, actively ask our diplomats in New York to inform Saudi Arabia about the fact that Belgium is supporting them? In the context of what kind of cynical lobbying campaign does it fit, Minister, to reassure a country such as Saudi Arabia that Belgium has supported them? What lobby campaign does this fit in? Why are you asking in an e-mail signed with your name, Reynders, that question to our diplomats in New York? How can you explain that? My sixth and final question is the following. Do you actually enjoy the trust of your diplomats in New York? There has been a coordination meeting, and the report of this sitting clearly states, by our diplomacy in New York, that, following the press releases insinuating that our permanent representation in New York would have acted on its own initiative, on that vote, and that the Minister had not been informed, this gives an unjustified picture of our administration, of our FOD, as an uncontrolled body. So it is insinuated that the Minister would not have been aware of this, they say here. This gives the picture of an uncontrolled organization and administration. So, they complain that they were wrongly played down by the statements made by the government. My question is then whether you still have the confidence of your diplomats in New York when it comes to the next votes? We still have a lot to vote on there, Minister. We still have a lot to say about human rights and women's rights. To what extent is there still trust there? The conclusion, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, is that the government has an immense problem. It has not told Parliament or our people the truth about our country's support for Saudi Arabia. Women's rights and human rights are sacrificed here to the economic interests and to the oil dollars. Saudi Arabia is apparently still untouchable to this government. You can't explain this kind of cynicism. Fortunately, we have e-mails showing that reality is somewhat different, that this has been a deliberate decision of our Belgian Government, that we have had all the time before that, contrary to what was said to Parliament and to public opinion. The reaction of the government parties in this will be very important. Do we allow our democracy to function in this way? Let us allow the Foreign Minister and even the Prime Minister to give information to the public and to Parliament, which is not in line with reality? That is a question on which we must all address ourselves, opposition and majority.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-02-54-commissie-ic649x.u35	Mr President, Mr Minister for Foreign Affairs, thank you for your explanation. First of all, I note your regrets and your apologies. I take note of this and it honours you, because it was important to be able to say that this vote was not a good vote. We had not quite had the same language elements last Wednesday, some of which actually leave me very perplexed if I refer to your explanations. First of all, you maintain the idea that you were not aware of it. You weren't informed. Now, I have in front of me this message from our embassy in New York, which, very clearly, warns you, pulls the alarm bell saying, "Attention, it will not be the clean slate procedure and it will make noise." Not only is he alerting us that we are not in an automatic procedure, that we are in a formal vote, that he is speaking at the request of the United States, that he is in Saudi Arabia and that the subject is going to make a great deal of noise. This typical decision deserves your attention and your green light. It is a first thing and it is important to see that. We're not in a normal procedure. In New York, it makes noise and you answer 9 hours later and not 3 hours as it was originally said in committee: "I have decided". "I have decided, I, Minister of Foreign Affairs." Signed Didier Reynders. Either you didn't know, as you keep saying, or this is a fake. When it is said, "I have decided" and in fact you have not decided, it is in my opinion a false, a lie or, in any case, a major malfunction. I cannot understand - you have repeated it, you have not been in place for a few weeks - that on such important decisions on the substance, for which you receive a formal alert from your embassy in New York, it is not you who made the decision, if that is the thesis that you continue to maintain. Because in this case, this poses serious problems in the functioning of your department and your firm. I do not think that we can content ourselves, when it comes to such formal decisions, with not seeing them, not taking note of them and not deciding. I'll take you to the word since you wrote black on white that you had decided. Moreover, the clean slate procedure to which reference continues to be made was not included. It was a formal vote. We are told that, anyway, Saudi Arabia would have been elected. That's not true! The clean slate procedure requires a majority for a country to be admitted to a forum. In fact, the 47 countries that also voted "yes" were strongly stressed, but this was not the case in seven countries. Among the many questions that can still be asked is why we have not taken the same position as these seven countries; why we have not questioned the fact that the United States has asked for a formal vote; why, still today, you cannot answer that question. Yet this is an important issue. Mr Minister for Foreign Affairs, in my view, it is time that, when it comes to the governance of the United Nations, we do not content ourselves with procedures which are no less than deviations. The clean slate procedure has long been criticized by all observers and by all human rights organisations for corrupting the functioning of the United Nations system in the very substance of its procedure. The Commission on Women's Rights and the Commission on Human Rights are entitled to expect that those countries that deserve it will be members of the Commission on Women's Rights or the Commission on Human Rights. There's got to be a real competition. There is indeed a competition for major sporting events, etc. On the most important issues, there must be real competition and we must not be complicit in procedures that are not appropriate and that make these organizations and commissions look like nothing. Indeed, with Saudi Arabia's participation in the Commission on Human Rights or the Commission on Women's Rights, it can be expected that the Commissions will be immobilized, blocked and unable to work effectively on these issues. I cannot agree with you, Mrs Capoen, because this is far from the worst country in the world in terms of women's rights. They have no rights in this country. Even when they are raped, they cannot complain. They can be prosecuted for adultery. Saudi Arabia is an open prison for ten million women. You have to know and repeat it. It is therefore that country that you have admitted to the Commission on Women's Rights. It is true that this is not the first time, as my colleague Van der Maelen said. I've heard a lot about Saudi Arabia. You know that's something I've been fighting about for a long time. Through compromises and compromises, we continue to give such a country a positive and normal image, so that we can deal with it in the same way as we do with others. That must stop! I've been asking for it for two years. You listed the resolution we adopted vertically. You never did anything about it. I have asked you about this on several occasions. It is important that we finally have this substantive debate. In my opinion, good news comes from this serious incident that occurred in New York and for which you bear responsibility. I mean, there was an electroshock. Finally, we no longer consider Saudi Arabia a normal country. I am thinking not only of the fact that it is the worst country in terms of women's rights and in the field of human rights in general. More than that, he is not an ally in the world's peacekeeping, Minister of Foreign Affairs. On the contrary, it poses a real threat to peace, to our country and to our living together. We know that. Moreover, the OCAM has just recalled this in an important report. Saudi Arabia not only represents a disaster for its people, because it threatens them, but also constitutes a well-known danger for the region. He's your colleague, Mr. From Croo who called him back. It finances, through its private foundations, the Islamic State. We are well aware that in Saudi Arabia, the boundaries between public and private are porous, as evidenced by the royal family's ties to the foundations. This country threatens the international community through an offensive strategy, which consists of raising people against each other and bringing together beliefs - Shiites against Sunnis; Sunni moderates against extremist Sunnis. That is what is at stake, Minister of Foreign Affairs! And you've known that for a long time. Finally, today, because of this lie last Wednesday and this serious incident caused by our diplomacy, we are opening this debate. That's the good news! I am pleased that in this exchange you were addressing a number of points which, in my view, should have been addressed for a long time. I will make a constructive contribution to this, regardless of the level of power. Indeed, the ping-pong games between the different governments of our country are characterized by their mediocrity in view of the height of the stakes. I've led him and I'll take him to where I am, to other levels if it's necessary. But I expect you to do the same, minister, because it's important. I hear today that you have a very modest position on external trade. I heard you a lot more offensive at the beginning of the legislature. You have dismissed your Secretary of State, Mr. De Crem, saying that he had nothing to do with foreign trade, that it was still your skill. And it has taken the Regions to remind them of their powers on several occasions so that they can be heard in the guidelines of foreign trade policy! I hear today that you have nothing more to do with external trade. I think we all have responsibilities and you have responsibilities for external trade, as well as the federated institutions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-02-54-commissie-ic649x.u36	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-02-54-commissie-ic649x.u37	And the cdH too, of course! I don't deny it. Mr Miller, I'm not like you, I'm not ping-ponging on such important issues. On these issues, we must have an important debate. For example, on investments in the port of Antwerp, Mrs Capoen. I hear that we have a debate on Saudi Arabia, because it is a country that threatens our lives together, threatens international security and threatens women. Minister, I also hear that we have a debate – and you have called it your wish – on how we are going to position ourselves in the United Nations system. You said it was a secret vote. I wonder why this must be a secret vote. All votes in Parliament are public. That makes you laugh, Mr. Diplomat! It doesn't make me laugh!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-02-54-commissie-ic649x.u38	Not all votes in parliament are public votes!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-02-54-commissie-ic649x.u39	All votes concerning political positions are public. This is a political position that engages our country. In any case, I hear that in the future these votes are public. This is part of the renewal of the governance of the United Nations. People have the right to know what their rulers are voting in such fundamental bodies. I think this must be your fight in the future. The system of Belgium and the United Nations needs to be renovated. We need a credible system at the United Nations like bread! We know that the United Nations is the only international forum where countries can meet, talk to each other and decide on things important for the future, but it must be credible. We must not turn away from the Commission on the Status of Women as we turned away from the Commission on Human Rights ten years ago because it no longer made sense. These bodies must be credible and the vote must therefore be made public. This must be our fight. This vote must be marked by clear principles. Indeed, you cannot convene Parliament every time you speak at the United Nations. These principles must be recalled by Parliament. I think it is important to stress this. There is room for clarification on the United Nations, on Saudi Arabia and on the functioning of your department.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-02-54-commissie-ic649x.u40	I will briefly share my reaction so that the first round can continue. Mr. Dallemagne is delighted with a lot of things. I too welcome many things, such as the fact that the Minister is announcing that he is going to open the debate and that he wants to arrive at a position discussed between Parliament and the government with regard to Saudi Arabia, including in the area of trade. In this regard, various elements were mentioned by the Minister. I will not take them all back to be too long, but I find that they represent a genuine openness, which is extremely important in terms of foreign and trade policy vis-à-vis this country. Mr. Dallemagne, I really won't be mean to you. From time to time you use unpleasant formulas, such as "ping-pong", "minable", etc. Let's keep it to a certain level of discussion. It is also my right, Mr. Dallemagne, to point out that Saudi Arabia is a country that threatens the region, which crushes the rights and freedoms of millions of women, which is at the heart of an international threat, perhaps also because this country is extremely well armed. Since 2004, Mr. Dallemagne's party has agreed to all arms sales and exports to Saudi Arabia. I'm not mean to tell you that, Mr. Dallemagne. But if we want to approach the whole debate as the minister has done, that element must also come to the table. Don't close your eyes! You say that we do not know what is happening at the United Nations about certain decisions. All right. Tell me what's going on in the Walloon Region when a case receives, at the end of the race, the approval for an arms export to Saudi Arabia! You could not even tell me who makes up the committee that chooses to say yes or no to these arms exports! Let's keep it to an interesting level of discussion, with arguments, and consider the openings that have been made by the minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-02-54-commissie-ic649x.u41	Mr. President, if Mr. Miller gets angry, we've hit a sensitive rope!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-02-54-commissie-ic649x.u42	No, I'm not angry, I'm an inflamed parliamentarian who likes to be really debated! But we must not try to put some elements aside. Excuse me, Mr. President!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-02-54-commissie-ic649x.u43	You come with the skills of the Walloon Region. I hear that we all have a debate on the issue together: majority as opposition, federated entities as federal power, and that there are no taboos and that no one is going to look for the fault that one or another has committed at such a time in history. We are facing a serious problem, which I have been denouncing for a long time, and I hear that on these issues, including the arms trade, Mr Miller, we do have a disengagement strategy. This seems obvious to me, and I hope that we will have a debate with all the political forces on this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-02-54-commissie-ic649x.u44	Mr Van Hees has the floor. Are there any groups that would like a second intervention before the Minister responds? After Mr Van Hees, Mr Pehlivan and Mr Hellings have the floor. After that, the Minister will respond.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-02-54-commissie-ic649x.u45	Mr President, Minister, I take note of your apology. Generally, when there is an apology, there is a responsibility. But I find these excuses a little misplaced. It looks like a communication strategy, to apologize to those who would have been shocked, who would have gone through your statements badly. I think that if there is an apology to make, it is to all the women on the planet, for whom this vote is serious. You have spoken of other countries; other colleagues have also done so. But in terms of women's rights, Saudi Arabia is the worst country in the world. You have to say it. That is why this vote is shocking, ladies and gentlemen. Besides, your attempt to drown the fish is a little big. You are telling us that the debate should be extended to the whole question of Saudi Arabia. One N-VA colleague even said that the debate should be extended to all countries. No. Excuse me, minister, but it is not up to the government to dictate the agenda of Parliament. The agenda is clear: it is an exchange of views on the vote in the United Nations. That's the debate. We will have to have a general debate on Saudi Arabia, but not now. It's not up to you to tell when to hold it. Even so, minister, your hypocrisy is a little big in this matter. You make it seem that you have always been very clear about Saudi Arabia, that you have always condemned this country, that if there have been decisions, it is the Walloon government's fault. Excuse me, but it's not a Walloon minister who got photographed behind a feline with a Saudi prince. It was you, sir, and you were not in the regional government, but in the federal government when this picture was taken. If your position was so clear, why didn't your firm or the diplomats tell you directly? Knowing that you've been running a campaign against Saudi Arabia for years, they should have rushed to pull the alarm bell to warn you of a big problem. However, I come back to the substance of the debate: on the one hand, on your contradictions as to whether you were aware or not; on the other hand, on the position defended by you and by the government. On your knowledge of the vote, you said in committee on Wednesday: "I repeat that I was not aware because the request came very late." But at the same time, you support the decision. On the bottom, you support her. I'll come back. Then, at 6:00 p.m., you are already coming back to your remarks and saying that you were not "personally" aware of the voting procedure. You were already opening a door. At the same time, Minister De Croo declared that he supported the candidacy on the merits by invoking the fact that having Saudi Arabia around the table could move the dialogue forward, even if, like you later, it would make a turning point at 180°. Then, in plenary, the Prime Minister said: "A request was made for a vote to take place. We have been informed of this. There are only a few hours between the time the Belgian Ministry of Foreign Affairs was informed and the time when the reply was to be communicated." You gave us the argument of routine. It was, in your opinion, a routine procedure. However, that was not the case. It was the opposite of a routine procedure. Indeed, as you said yourself, the United States has broken the routine and seven countries have voted against it. This proves that there was ample room for a very clear vote against Saudi Arabia, especially since, in these circumstances, it would have been quite logical for your diplomats to inform you of the situation, which they did in fact... You've been informed! And - cherry on the cake! - it is, in any case, the most obvious element: you have signed an e-mail in which it is requested that a decision be taken in the way we know it. So in terms of knowledge, things are pretty clear. As far as the position is concerned, we can also see an evolution in the speech. In committee, you said that you were not aware, but that you respected the choices made by diplomats, namely, to continue supporting candidates when there were as many candidates as there were seats to be filled, and, above all, that it was easy to say that we should only participate in meetings in which those who have the same positions as ours took part, that it made no sense. So on the merits, you clearly supported the Belgian decision to support Saudi Arabia. It was only afterwards, in view of the scale of the scandal, that you "turned casaque", if I may use this expression. In conclusion, we find ourselves facing a bundle of clues that show that you were aware of it. So you didn't tell the truth. Therefore, it would be necessary for all communications by e-mail to be made clear, etc., which took place during the nine hours, but also, if you continue to say that you were not aware, about the e-mail which informs you of the vote of Belgium. Even if you were not informed, I think your political responsibility is clearly committed. Belgium voted in favour of Saudi Arabia. It is therefore appropriate to draw the conclusions of a position taken by your firm or, in any case, by persons who place themselves under your political responsibility. The aggravating circumstance is that you justified the Belgian vote on the merits. This leads us to believe that there is a great chance that you have been informed of this.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-02-54-commissie-ic649x.u46	Minister, it is a painful and cynical moment when Belgium voted in favour of Saudi Arabia becoming a member of the UN Women's Rights Commission. Why is this painful and cynical? On the one hand, because your diplomacy voted in favour of Saudi Arabia's membership on your behalf, on the other hand, because another minister of this government visited a number of countries in West Africa in the framework of the project "She Decides', which stands up for women's rights. I wonder whether there is a difference between Africa and Saudi Arabia. Are we going to defend women's rights in Africa, but not Saudi Arabia? Colleagues have already outlined the situation in Saudi Arabia in great detail. I am not going to go into this in more detail, especially because our position on the matter is well known. I would like to make two more comments. In Saudi Arabia, honor killings still take place on women. It's still the rule there that women get killed for honor. Women can't even step outside without guidance. It doesn't matter what age the male companion has. Both points make it even more painful for me that Belgium voted for Saudi Arabia's membership of the United Nations Women's Rights Commission. Minister, a great deal has already been said. I can go on myself, but I would like to hear your answers to the questions put by my fellow Members. The most striking thing for me in all of this is that we are selling our human and women's rights. We sell our souls, Minister. You shake no, but you do. Our attitude to this dossier is not motivated by a genuine concern about women's rights, but by a genuine concern about our billions of exports and their investments with us, no more, no less. That is why I have only one question for you, Minister, a question of conscience. Are you still at peace with your conscience?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-02-54-commissie-ic649x.u47	Mr President, Minister, you have just reaffirmed your commitment to human rights in general and gender equality in particular. That's what you just said, but that's not what you did on April 19, 2017. On that day, your cabinet – that is to say, you – gave Saudi Arabia the opportunity to re-emphasize its coat of arms in a UN institution, to soften its image and thereby de-creditize an institution to which you hold, and we hold, the UN. It was your office, through an e-mail that left on April 19, 2017 at 3:34 p.m., that ordered our representative at the United Nations to vote for a number of countries, including Saudi Arabia. My question is simple. Who, within your firm, has given the possibility that this e-mail will depart from the FPS Foreign Affairs, therefore from your firm, to the UN? Who is the person who gave this order to you? I understand, minister, that you did not sign this e-mail. We all know here, in the political arena, that it is the minister's office that makes the decisions on his behalf, but you take full political responsibility for them. Who gave the order? Could you also give colleagues a copy of this 3:34 p.m. email dated April 19, 2017? This would support our discussions. You said, "If Belgium had voted against it, it would not have changed anything." Well, if, Minister, you wouldn't be facing us today. If Belgium had voted against it, it would have respected a diplomatic tradition of defending human rights and you would not have to justify yourself today before the Members of the Committee on External Relations. Furthermore, as Mr De Vriendt pointed out, why should we inform the countries for which we voted that Belgium will vote for them or voted for them? Is it a diplomatic tradition? For example, for appointments in 2010, 2013 and for appointments to other UN agencies such as UNAIDS, does Belgium systematically inform the countries for which it voted that it voted for them? I'm getting to the bottom. The question of our votes in the United Nations committees has not always been so publicised, but it has been the subject of parliamentary debate. I found a parliamentary question asked by late colleague Groen, Mrs Eva Brems, to your predecessor, Mr Steven Vanackere, on 9 November 2010. We were in the midst of a debate on the appointment of the countries members of these committees. She said: "What diplomatic steps is our country taking to prevent countries such as Iran and Saudi Arabia from becoming members of the UN Women's Board of Directors, which clearly have little or no commitment to women's rights? How will these possible Belgian approaches be translated into Belgium's vote?" Steven Vanackere replied: "Saudi Arabia's chances as a donor country are the direct result of the UN Women resolution." He concluded his speech as follows: "Our vote will be determined by the respect of women's rights by the candidate countries and we are working with our other partners in the European Union to get the other countries taking part in the vote to adopt the same attitude." It is therefore understandable that there are two phases in the nominations of these countries: a secret phase in which, in the UN corridors, in private caucuses, diplomats agree on a list, and then a vote, which has not taken place often so far, because the United States has requested it. In Belgium, there was a diplomatic tradition, as explained by your predecessor, a routine, a habit to make every effort at the UN to ensure that countries that do not respect human rights, which do not respect women's rights, find themselves in commissions that talk about human rights, starting with those that deal with gender equality. Has this procedure changed? Has this diplomatic tradition changed? Does Belgium invalidate what Minister Vanackere said in 2010, when you came to head of this department? Are there other procedures at work to designate these countries? Have you consulted other EU Member States to try to reach a concerted vote against problematic countries? Finally, on the merits, we have received a large amount of information. Mr. From Vriendt and I, we have been fighting for months to hold this debate on Saudi Arabia. Today, the Foreign Minister has just declared the need for an arms embargo to Saudi Arabia. That is the seventh point in the motion for a resolution that we should have discussed if the minister had not committed this blunder. He then announced the importance of putting an end to the economic missions in Saudi Arabia. This is the third point in our motion for a resolution. I am therefore pleased to note that, after all these passages, I do not know which diplomatic channels are impenetrable, a large number of colleagues support our text. MR MPs could even have co-signed it. In substance, I reiterate that Ecolo-Groen has not changed his mind and has not set foot in the carpet to finally adopt a coherent position on human rights, gender equality, the sale of arms to a problematic country. This is the same position we have been defending for a long time. Ladies and gentlemen, we look forward with great pleasure to the moment when you are going to vote on this motion for a resolution, because it is not a word in the air, but an act. If this whole history has made it possible to fundamentally change the relationship and diplomatic relations that our State has with this problematic country, it is so much better!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-02-54-commissie-ic649x.u48	It is necessary to quote or comment, to do so correctly. I have just heard Mr Hellings refer to Mrs Brems. I read De Standaard on April 28th. She said: 'I had also asked Mr Reynders a question as a politician, but as an academic I am still more nuanced. I understand that all regions of the world must be represented in such a political body. You cannot fill such a committee with Western countries, which are then going to rebuke the rest of the world. It doesn't work. The question is also, if you exclude Saudi Arabia, where do you draw the line? Do you do the same with Iran? What interests me most as a scientist is what Saudi women think of this. Maybe they think it's a good thing. Now that there's so much commotion about it, maybe the pressure on the Saudi government is increasing.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-02-54-commissie-ic649x.u49	The commotion isn't there because of you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-02-54-commissie-ic649x.u50	That's right, she's here because of Mr. Trump. Mr Calvo, I have never seen you in this committee. Can I give you an answer now? Here are some elements! The first: on what happened, you can obviously continue to try to read a whole series of exchanges, which you have received from the fact – congratulations! - concerning the relationship between the post in New York, my department and my cabinet; but I say it from the beginning, in eer in geweten, in all conscience, I was not aware that a voting procedure should take place. I can't say it in another language. I can repeat it as many times as you want, it's clear and obvious and everyone who knows how the department works knows that, but you can make it look the opposite, when a procedure works according to the instructions, it's obvious that it happens without informing the minister of the process. But yes, Mr. Hellings, you can frown the eyebrows as much as you want, it's not because an instruction came from the firm that I knew, in any case, about this procedure! Yes, I know the method: or you know and it's very serious and if you don't know, it's very serious too! What do you want me to say? I simply repeat what I said in my soul and conscience, what I said and to the government and Parliament from the first question: I was not aware of this procedure! This obviously causes a decision in my head as well as in the head of government to change the method of work. I've never said anything else and you can return the problems as much as you want, it's not 3:00, 6:00 or 9:00 that will make a difference. Since we didn't know about it, we obviously tried to find out. That's why I told you that the first e-mails we saw were the numbered, official e-mails where there were three hours apart and then, there was a midnight e-mail, bringing the gap to 9:00 a.m. But that doesn't change the basic fact that not more the Prime Minister than I knew. Secondly, I did not criticise all the diplomats in the department. I even stated that "they acted very professionally", precisely because they repeated a procedure, according to which, when the number of candidates equals the number of seats, this procedure is supported. I understand. Today we are told: "No, even in this case, even when on the last day a request for a vote is made, we must change, we must be able to take an attitude. I am ready to work in this direction, I have announced it and I will return to it. It is therefore clear that we need to make a new decision in this regard. However, I have no criticism of those who have applied the ordinary procedure. You've got all the names, you've got all the e-mails. You request information, the e-mails contain all the elements. There's nothing new.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-02-54-commissie-ic649x.u51	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-02-54-commissie-ic649x.u52	It was an audience, Mr President. May I, Mr President?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-02-54-commissie-ic649x.u53	I expect an answer to my question later to get those e-mails.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-02-54-commissie-ic649x.u54	May I? We are, I would like to make it clear, since I am hearing requests for a review of the functioning of the United Nations, the only country where there is now a request to make public the votes cast in this institution. I repeat what I said earlier: a number of votes were cast by 54 members of ECOSOC and this information is not communicated anywhere. I recall that the communication was made, and that the Prime Minister spoke unambiguously on Thursday on the subject. We had to take an attitude: did we actually have to make these votes public? This was done well before all the discussion I have just heard about email exchanges. Read what was said this Thursday in session. I had already given these guidelines on Wednesday in committee. We are the only country to work in this way. I have not motivated Saudi Arabia to be elected in the vote without or with our approval. The election of Saudi Arabia was a fact. Even if Belgium had voted differently, the result would still be 46 out of 54. I do not yet know how the various participants voted. I don't have any information on that. Mrs Van Hoof, there may also be debates on this in other countries. There are also European countries among the yes-voters. The vote included Germany, Estonia, Spain, France, Ireland, Italy, the United Kingdom, the Czech Republic and Sweden, as well as Andorra, Norway, Australia and the United States, located outside the European Union, but generally takes the same stance in different bodies. However, I do not have any information on the voting behaviour of these countries. We are having a public debate on this in Belgium; we have that possibility. We have given an answer in relation to all communication about the e-mails. The Prime Minister has already answered questions about this in plenary. I would like to make it clear that we are the only ones to act in this direction. I am told that we need to consult with the European countries. I note that a number of European countries have had to vote like us - it is mathematical - perhaps for the same reasons, perhaps because they have followed a procedure. But so far no one has expressed himself on this subject. I would like to point out that we are in a very particular case where, while the number of candidates was the same as the number of seats, there was an American application, of which I do not know why. We must not believe that we have not asked the Americans to explain their reasons, but they refuse to give them, just as they also refuse to say their vote. I do not know how the United States voted. I simply note that this amendment took place on the eve of the vote. That is why we are proposing an amendment to the procedure. I want to go back to this change in procedure. The government has decided... (...): (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-02-54-commissie-ic649x.u55	Mrs Capoen, the procedure concerns all votes, for all cases, certainly in the event of such a situation with a clean slate, i.e. with the same number of seats as the number of candidates, but also for the other votes, there will be consultations within the government to take a political position, not only for Saudi Arabia but for all countries. So it will be our job to give a correct response. On what basis? We will try to apply objective criteria, but we will still try to make a political analysis, on a case-by-case basis, and that will not only happen within the government, but I have also proposed possible cooperation with Parliament. I have heard Mrs Turtelboom and Mrs Van Hoof. We have to do that, but, again, on what basis? I would like to repeat a few elements. I am prepared to do so for all the votes, but it is a very specific procedure. We are the only ones with such an open debate so far. Is it possible to organise a consultation in camera in Parliament - I have no illusions! - on the voting guidelines that we want to take? When I say that I have no illusions, it is because we are the only country in the world where a government cannot answer that a vote has been secret, and I knew it! That is why, long before any external communication, the Prime Minister made it clear what had happened. Can we imagine at least having the debate in camera and going out publicly only if we consider that there has been a problem or difficulty? We'll see! But I'm ready to move forward in this direction. We have to find the method. We must work on objective criteria and a general approach. It may be possible for some country to decide to follow a certain direction in all possible votes. I don't know, but it's a very important debate. It is very important that we were not informed at first. So you can ask for more, such as why there was no contact with other countries or why there was no other response. However, it is a fact that neither I nor the government were aware of the procedure. However, we have decided to change and renew the procedure. I am trying to work with Parliament correctly in this area. More broadly, Mr Dallemagne, I understand that you mentioned the idea that procedures should be changed within the United Nations. I had the opportunity to participate in a debate, already in the formation of a government a few years ago, where we decided to change the composition of the Security Council also on a regional basis. So far, this has not been achieved yet, but I believe it is a fairly widely defended position in Belgium that we are not precluded from changing the approach. But I have just reminded you that, for the time being, even within the European Union, there is no agreement to move on to a voting mechanism other than secret voting. The question must therefore be asked whether Belgium alone should try to move in this direction or try to find a number of partners to do so. I note that, in other areas, we are told that, as long as there is no European position, even with regard to Saudi Arabia, there is no question of progress. I am not going to go back to the debate and the exchanges you have had about weapons. I would just like to say that I find it a bit special to mention the idea that we are dealing with one of the most dangerous countries in the world and to see that, whenever we approach the problem of this embargo, we are told: "Wait for a European agreement." That is what has been said not only by groups here but by the Walloon government and government. I have said that I agree to defend this position at European level because I cannot do otherwise.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-02-54-commissie-ic649x.u56	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-02-54-commissie-ic649x.u57	Of course, but I obviously do not have the capacity to do so. Mr Dallemagne, the distribution of competences is thus made in Belgium.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-02-54-commissie-ic649x.u58	(...) Compliance with the European Code of Conduct (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-02-54-commissie-ic649x.u59	If you tell me how I can prevent an arms export from Belgium, I will. [[(...): (...)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-02-54-commissie-ic649x.u60	No, no! Look at the distribution of competences in this area and we have the debate. I really want us to have this debate. I understand that we will not have the debate on relations between our country and Saudi Arabia today in a broader way, but I want to confirm once again that we were not and that I was not aware of what was to be done about voting in ECOSOC - I would remind you that this is a council within the United Nations and for which we had to appoint a whole series of representatives in a whole series of bodies. The heads of all levels of my department have taken the same direction. And I don't throw stones at them. Moreover, I have never done so, since I have even spoken of a professional action, since they have respected what has always been followed in this field. I have not been informed of the process. We are therefore changing the procedure. I repeat that we are ready to discuss with Parliament, in this case with your committee, how to involve them in this procedure set up by the government. We are also prepared to move forward in defining our relations with Saudi Arabia. I will even be very clear about this, since I was asked whether it was a personal or a governmental position. As far as the procedure is concerned, this is very clearly a position of the government, which proposes another method of working to draw lessons from the events. I explained it to myself. As far as the economic missions are concerned, I therefore recalled – because it is my responsibility – that I no longer wanted to participate in foreign trade missions in Saudi Arabia until the government and parliament had ruled on developments in human rights and equality between men and women. The debate that has taken place in recent days shows that we must adopt such an attitude. I added that the Regions would choose how they would act in their area of competence. I don't have the ability to impose anything on them. Then I would like to say to Mr. Van Hees, we're getting pretty much what we want in the photos. If I was in Saudi Arabia at the time you mentioned it was because the three Regions wanted us to organize a mission there in 2014. Look at what political formations then supported the governments concerned. Moreover, in 2009, it was the same. Look at the political parties that supported the regional executive. I am not looking at you in particular, Mr Hellings, but remember that Ecolo sat in the Walloon government when we decided to carry out economic missions in Saudi Arabia. As I have said in conclusion, I simply ask that we now step out of this hypocrisy of adopting a different attitude depending on whether we sit in the majority or in the opposition, at one time or another, at one level of power or another. Mr. Chairman, I've known you almost since I held ministerial office. I've been used, for several years, to hearing you wish my resignation at any time. I don't have a problem with that. It is often in a personal capacity and often in total contradiction with what your political party has also decided to do in other governments. I recall, however, that a number of contacts with Saudi Arabia were made when your party was in the federal or regional government. I have to tell you that I've already been personally hurt, but I understand what happened. This has taken place again in some of the interventions. I am wounded that Belgium's commitment to the defence of human rights and equality between men and women has been called into question. I reaffirm our full commitment to this issue. You also, at the start of a tweet, suggested that our commitment was too weak in the fight against the death penalty. I am probably one of the few foreign ministers to systematically discuss, including with Saudi Arabia and Bahrain, the issue of the death penalty. What have we systematically done? Call for abolition, and failing that, a moratorium. It is true that, like Amnesty International, we want to change the situation. If we do not achieve abolition or a moratorium, we call for at least the death penalty to be reserved for the most serious crimes, not to be applied to minors, and to be applied under the least inhumane conditions possible. We can even have this debate with the United States. I find that questioning our policy in this area is not correct, especially on the basis of information that is wrong. I would point out to you that a number of European countries did not even express their views on the subject at the universal periodical, which is constantly taking place in Geneva concerning the various countries. Our attitude is the same, I confirm. If you want me to express it in writing and send it again to all the countries that use the death penalty, I can do it. We are calling for abolition. When countries refuse, we ask for a moratorium, which our country has practiced for years. Indeed, the death penalty was included in our Code, but we were no longer applying it. If countries refuse the moratorium, we try to at least improve the situation. We have even worked, with the help of many parliamentarians, to help the children of executed persons. We are trying to intervene on all matters. I find that, at the start of a vote that we regret, systematically questioning our commitment, not only to my own, but also to the commitment of the government and the majority and, I hope, of the whole Parliament, in the defence of human rights, of gender equality, but also of the fight against the death penalty, this is not correct. We have taken every initiative to show our willingness to act in this direction and to act effectively. I conclude by saying that sometimes I have the impression that we do not know the procedures that exist at the international level. As part of a universal periodic review, we send in writing our requests – what we did for the death penalty – and then we try to get the agreement of the countries surveyed – that was the case with Belgium when I went there – on a number of recommendations. I would be very proud if we could already get in Bahrain, after the re-establishment of the death penalty, to limit its application and to go, as Amnesty International is asking, towards a moratorium and then towards abolition.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-02-54-commissie-ic649x.u61	Mr. Secretary, is this a joke? I have asked you six questions about the contradiction between what the government and you have said here to Parliament and to the people and about e-mail traffic, the information that has emerged from it. What else are you gonna tell us? You have to go into that. This is a matter of principle, of democracy. We must be able to rely on what the government tells us. If we can't do that anymore, what are we still doing here? I've asked you six questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-02-54-commissie-ic649x.u62	You don't want to hear it. I told him I wasn't aware.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-02-54-commissie-ic649x.u63	We already know that. You've been saying that for a week. I have asked you six precise questions about the contradiction between what you have said and what the Prime Minister has said to this Parliament, to the representatives of the people. I'll repeat them.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-02-54-commissie-ic649x.u64	There was no contradiction, as I said.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-02-54-commissie-ic649x.u65	The contrast is eminent and undisputed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-02-54-commissie-ic649x.u66	Mr De Vriendt, could you perhaps repeat your questions one by one?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-02-54-commissie-ic649x.u67	Mr Minister, you said on Wednesday that you did not know anything, but e-mail traffic shows that there is much more going on, that the cabinet knew, that discussions have been held and that you, the cabinet, gave the green light to our diplomats in New York to support Saudi Arabia. First of all, why didn't you say that to Parliament?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-02-54-commissie-ic649x.u68	Perhaps the Minister could answer your question directly?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-02-54-commissie-ic649x.u69	That was exactly my answer. I wasn't aware. You're talking about e-mails between my cabinet and New York. Yeah, like I said, there was a lot of contact between New York, the central services and my cabinet. The ordinary procedure was followed. I've said that several times. I wasn't aware of that. The chief of the cabinet is here with me. I never got any information in that connection. That is why we have decided on a new procedure.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-02-54-commissie-ic649x.u70	Minister, my parliamentary question did not come as a surprise; it was tabled. You had to look up that information. You've had days to do that. Between 19 April and Wednesday 26 April, you were able to examine my parliamentary question and you had to answer it. You had to look at that with your cabinet. Moreover, e-mail traffic shows that there has even been informal consultation between diplomacy and your services much earlier than that nine hours. That's what it says in black and white. Or are the diplomats lying? Do you dare say that what's in the e-mails is wrong and that the diplomats in New York lied? One or the other, Minister. You're not answering that.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-02-54-commissie-ic649x.u71	Mr Grovonius wishes to speak on the first question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-02-54-commissie-ic649x.u72	Mr President, I am just as shocked as my colleague about what I am hearing here and about the minister's non-responses. Mr Minister, let us believe that you have given answers to these questions today or last Wednesday, that is not true! You have never given answers to these elements! You say you don't know, all right! But then, who knew? Your firm? Who in your office? Any other law firms? Who in the other offices? Did anyone in the Prime Minister's office know about this? People from Mr. Did De Croo know about this? Who knew?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-02-54-commissie-ic649x.u73	Who is the member of your firm who gave the fiat? Was it your chief of staff, an assistant chief of staff, or an advisor? Who allowed this 3:34 p.m. e-mail on April 19 to go to the UN? It is indeed a member of your firm since the e-mail e-mail e-mail e-mail e-mail e-mail e-mail e-mail e-mail e-mail e-mail e-mail e-mail e-mail e-mail e-mail e-mail e-mail e-mail e-mail e-mail e-mail e-mail e-mail e-mail e-mail e-mail e-mail e-mail e-mail e-mail e-mail e-mail e-mail e-mail e-mail e-mail e-mail e-mail e-mail e-mail e-mail e-mail e-mail e-mail e-mail e-mail e-mail e-mail e-mail e-mail e-mail e-mail e-mail e-mail e-mail e-mail e-mail e-mail e-mail e-mail e-mail e-mail e-mail e-mail e-mail e-mail e-mail e-mail e-mail e-mail e-mail e-mail e-mail e-mail e-mail e-mail e-mail e-mail e-mail e-mail e-mail e-mail e-mail e-mail e-mail e-mail e-mail e-mail e-mail e-mail e mail e mail e mail e Who is the member of your firm who gave the order to send this e-mail?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-02-54-commissie-ic649x.u74	Minister, you said that, anyway, Saudi Arabia would have been elected. But the e-mail your firm receives speaks well of the fact that it takes a majority. So it is not acquired in advance! In the clean slate procedure, it is necessary for countries to bring their votes. You didn't answer me about that. What is this majority and why has it not been tried to reverse it?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-02-54-commissie-ic649x.u75	We agreed that I would give our colleague De Vriendt an opportunity to ask his six questions. If anyone has a similar question, I would like to give him the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-02-54-commissie-ic649x.u76	As always, Mr De Vriendt, a clear answer. I repeat that there were contacts between the post office in New York, the central services and my cabinet, so the consultant for the United Nations, that is clear and clear. There was an ordinary application, the normal course of events, for the situation where there are as many candidates as there are seats. I repeat, I regret that situation, but I was not aware of it. So I can say nothing more about why there were no contacts, why there was no other initiative. I wasn't aware so it was impossible to take another initiative. I said that I was not aware during the committee and the Prime Minister said clearly and clearly what the vote was and what our reaction was. I said immediately that there was a discussion between the services and my cabinet. So I have no doubts in that regard. I was clear from the beginning, but you always ask me what I've done. I wasn't aware so I didn't have an opportunity to do anything else. That is the ordinary procedure, but I have also said that we want a different procedure now, with a real political decision by myself, by the government, and if it is possible also in cooperation with Parliament. You can ask many other questions, it is clear and clear. I did not comment negatively on the diplomats in such a case. I have said that they have followed the normal procedure, perhaps it is a pity. I regret that situation, but I also regret that it was impossible for myself to make a decision. That is why I immediately proposed a new procedure. That was also approved in substance on Friday. Well, that's pretty clear.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-02-54-commissie-ic649x.u77	So if we submit a parliamentary question, you are not going to investigate it. It seems that you do not check in your cabinet how that decision was taken. What is more, when Prime Minister Michel comes to Parliament to explain the following day, he has had an extra day to examine that decision-making, and he has not done so either. Secondly, there was my question: on the basis of previous informal consultations? This is a quote, a quote from the e-mail. What kind of informal consultation has taken place here? Or maybe you don't know that either? Do you have absolutely no control over what happens to your cabinet when it comes to Saudi Arabia? Is that what's going on with the State Department?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-02-54-commissie-ic649x.u78	The process of foreign affairs was to approve all cases where the number of seats is the same as the number of candidates. This has always been said formally and informally in the past. There may have been contacts between the different services in that connection, but it was always confirmed, without information to myself. I said in my introduction that whether it was three hours or nine hours, it was always less than a day for the United States' question. I didn't get any information on that. After that, I did get some information. Is it possible to be even more precise? I have said that we are the only country in the world with such public debate. That is normal for me, and I asked whether it was possible or not to have such an open debate. The Prime Minister has given Belgium's position clearly and clearly. That is the first time in plenary on Thursday. After my statement in committee, I always read that everyone understood what the vote was.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-02-54-commissie-ic649x.u79	I understand that if a Member asks the question about decision-making and procedure, you do not investigate it, and apparently neither does the Prime Minister. It's only thanks to the e-mails that we know how to handle the fork. Is it normal for a Parliament to have to hope for leaks to know what the truth is, what the true thing is? In addition, you are talking about an e-mail of 13.00 hours, which shows that there was only three hours between the moment of notification and the decision. I'd like a copy of that e-mail. The copy of the exchange of letters was also requested by a number of fellow Members. Will you give it to me? You didn't say a word about that in your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-02-54-commissie-ic649x.u80	I don't have a problem with that. You have all the e-mails, I understand.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-02-54-commissie-ic649x.u81	No, because apparently there is a difference between an informal and a formal e-mail, an e-mail of 1 p.m. which makes you say: no, my interpretation is correct, it was only at three o'clock. We have another e-mail, which shows that it is at least nine o'clock and rather informal. You're holding on to your three-hour version. I'm gonna need that e-mail.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-02-54-commissie-ic649x.u82	I can't do that today. I will inform the committee on this. I asked.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-02-54-commissie-ic649x.u83	Mr De Vriendt, you should listen to my statements if possible. I never explained that. In my introduction, I even talked about it in three hours, nine hours or more.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-02-54-commissie-ic649x.u84	Mr President, Mr Reynders, you spoke at the press conference in three hours. Everyone heard you spoke at the press conference in three hours.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-02-54-commissie-ic649x.u85	Mr Calvo, I have spoken in three hours, nine hours or more. However, that does not change the fact that I was not aware. You can keep repeating that there were different e-mails between the Cabinets, the staff and the diplomatic post in New York. I was not aware, however, and neither was the Prime Minister. Why was there that first reaction? It is a normal reaction to the United Nations that there is a secret vote. That was the first reaction, including from the services. I repeat that we were then the only country where it was possible for the government to speak clearly and clearly in plenary last Thursday in order to make an exception by stating that Belgium had voted yes within a certain procedure, that it regretted that yes vote and would therefore draw up a new procedure. You can keep hammering at that meeting. However, it is clear that I have apologized to the people who were shocked. However, it was a procedure with such an effect, without any information being given to myself or to the government. Now we ask for a new procedure. We also ask that one day, perhaps in the coming weeks or months, we hold a debate not only on this but also on all the votes on all the other countries, which was the question of several Members of Parliament. We also want a debate on our real relations with Saudi Arabia. You do not ask to go that far, but you keep asking for the e-mails from 19 April 2017 or during the night of 18 to 19 April 2017. I have already indicated that these were e-mails between the employees. I have no criticism of the various staff members, as you can also read in my press briefing. I would just like to point out that they have followed the normal procedure and procedure. We ask that this procedure be changed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-02-54-commissie-ic649x.u86	There is at least one thing I agree with you, minister. It doesn't matter that 3:00 a.m., 6:00 a.m., 9:00 a.m. has passed – it doesn't matter very much – because, overall, it took about 10 seconds to say no to Saudi Arabia. Frankly, on this issue, I agree with you. On the other hand, where I am really very angry is that when you came to committee on Wednesday and you were asked the question, you did not tell the truth. You sought to hide it as much as possible by telling us that you were not aware of it and that at some point it was the Foreign Affairs Department that had been informed and that the time, to give its answer, was very brief. But, minister, at no time did you tell us that your office was informed, because you obviously didn't want to take your responsibility in this story. And now, Minister, I'm sorry, I absolutely disagree with that. You are not assuming your responsibility as a minister in this matter. You seek to weigh the weight on your services and do not assume your responsibility, which is, however, largely committed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-02-54-commissie-ic649x.u87	Minister, as an excuse for our country's voting behaviour, the government is calling for little time. That was the first version. "Some hours," said the Prime Minister. Three hours, you said, even Friday morning at the press conference. Fortunately, we have e-mails showing that it has not been a few hours or three hours, but at least nine hours. We confronted you with that information, to which you have just said that there is another one hour e-mail, which would only be effective at three hours. I'm asking you to give me a copy of that e-mail. That's the most normal thing in the world, isn't it? We live in a parliamentary democracy. If we have proof, and if you say it's not true, then I want proof from you, and give us proof that your version is correct.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-02-54-commissie-ic649x.u88	Mr De Vriendt, I said yes. It's exactly the same e-mail, but numbered.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-02-54-commissie-ic649x.u89	In other words, your three-hour version doesn't add up. So you admit it was nine o'clock.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-02-54-commissie-ic649x.u90	Do you want to hear it or not? It's exactly the same e-mail, but numbered. The formal exchange of mail took place between 1 p.m. and 4 p.m. I wasn't aware. So I asked to get all the documents. Between the two numbered e-mails there is less than three hours, but I asked to get all the information. It's true that from midnight... However, I was not aware. (...): (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-02-54-commissie-ic649x.u91	Draw your conclusions, that's another problem. We have drawn our conclusions. The government's conclusion is that we regret it. I have apologized myself and there will be a new procedure, in cooperation with Parliament. Do you really want a debate on Saudi Arabia or not, Mr De Vriendt?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-02-54-commissie-ic649x.u92	Do you know what we want, Minister? We want a government and a minister that we can trust. We want a minister who we are sure will be honest and true if he says anything to Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-02-54-commissie-ic649x.u93	(...) not that.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-02-54-commissie-ic649x.u94	You are now saying that you will give us the same e-mail, though numbered. Sorry, but the e-mail we have shows very clearly that the e-mail was sent to your cabinet at 0.33 p.m. and that your cabinet replied at 3.34 p.m. Given the time difference, there remains a difference of nine hours. Where do you get that three-hour difference? Unless there is another e-mail, but from the mail, formalized, geo-officialized or not, it turns out that the time difference is nine hours. One of your main arguments for supporting Saudi Arabia in terms of women's rights, namely that you didn't really have the time, is wrong. If you want to prove otherwise, give us the evidence. That's essential.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-02-54-commissie-ic649x.u95	Mr De Vriendt, first of all, I never said that. I immediately said from Wednesday that I was not informed and I repeat...
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-02-54-commissie-ic649x.u96	We already know that.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-02-54-commissie-ic649x.u97	But two or nine hours... it's still a very important meeting, but I wasn't aware, and so it was impossible to move in another direction. Secondly, you say that one must have confidence. I know that it is impossible for the opposition to give its trust to the government and certainly to the foreign minister. I have received so many questions about a different relationship between the opposition and the majority. I said it: with your chairman, that is almost a tradition. For more than 15 years, I've been asked to resign almost every week. I don't have a problem with that. That's normal, it's the duty of the opposition to oppose. I have said, once again, that we were not aware. As far as the government is concerned, the nuclear cabinet has taken a clear and clear decision with the four majority parties and we are now proceeding with a new procedure. However, I also hope that at some point, perhaps not today, we will be able to have a real debate on relations between Belgium and Saudi Arabia. If you do not, I understand and we will do it another day.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-02-54-commissie-ic649x.u98	Mr President, it was by listening to our colleague Mrs Grovonius that I asked to take the floor again. I can understand all of his questions, but it is difficult to accept that she is bringing the minister to trial by saying that he does not recognize a responsibility. It has been hours, if not days, since the minister apologized, said that he was not aware, that he was not informed, that the procedure was mechanically applied and that he regretted it. He went to propose a modification of the procedure in Kern, precisely so that this situation would not happen again. Before our committee, he is basing himself on the motion for a resolution tabled by our colleagues and saying that it is absolutely necessary to have a general debate on relations with Saudi Arabia. Like a few colleagues on this committee, I have the feeling, Mr President, that we have taken a look at the question. I am not going to stop our colleague from asking his third question. But sincerely, it still begins to look a bit like the methods of the Wharf of Goldsmiths, by asking questions! Let's stay calm! The minister replied. He said he apologized for the vote. The Prime Minister was also very clear. They have proposed a change in the procedure, which I find very interesting and which will have to be discussed among parliamentarians. The Minister began a very strong reflection on economic relations with Saudi Arabia. Ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately, what has happened has happened; but here we have the opportunity to take a step forward, not only between us, the federal government and federated entities, but also towards the international community. Mr President, we can still hear Mr Reynders say that he did not know, that he regrets. I think that many instances of these words are already in the proceedings. Maybe we could move on.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-02-54-commissie-ic649x.u99	Colleagues, there is agreement between our committee and the Minister on the need for a debate on our policy towards Saudi Arabia. Everyone agrees with that. Mr Minister, some members of the opposition, including Mr De Vriendt and myself, wish to be clear about what has happened. I think Mr De Vriendt's question is a very reasonable one. I did it myself, by the way. Can the Chamber have all the documents from your cabinet from some 19 April to some 27 April? Some Members of this House have e-mails, but my group does not. It is therefore an ordinary question, and I hope that the majority of my fellow Members will support it. We must all be able to identify what has happened. The government is proposing any improvements, and we need to be able to check whether these improvements correspond to what we see. That is why we must first be able to identify what has gone wrong.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-02-54-commissie-ic649x.u100	Mr President, I have nothing more to add in this connection. I don't want to keep repeating myself. I am prepared to answer parliamentary questions and to cooperate in all possible other traditional procedures.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-02-54-commissie-ic649x.u101	Why not now?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-02-54-commissie-ic649x.u102	Mr De Vriendt, I have said everything. You have a different opinion; that makes sense.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-02-54-commissie-ic649x.u103	These are not opinions, they are facts.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-02-54-commissie-ic649x.u104	Ah, hello, Mr. Calvo! There's a camera behind you. Mr Calvo, if I may, we have had debates in committee...
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-02-54-commissie-ic649x.u105	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-02-54-commissie-ic649x.u106	Mr Calvo, I have tried to be correct and honest. This is one of your first visits to this committee. You were not aware of the debate last Wednesday. I didn't see you on Wednesday. You weren't there at the time.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-02-54-commissie-ic649x.u107	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-02-54-commissie-ic649x.u108	Why not today, Mr Calvo?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-02-54-commissie-ic649x.u109	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-02-54-commissie-ic649x.u110	I know. May I have the floor?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-02-54-commissie-ic649x.u111	Ladies and gentlemen, the Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-02-54-commissie-ic649x.u112	I have answered all the questions. You can always say I was aware. I wasn't aware! I am therefore not allowed to say anything about a possible contact. As for the document, I said yes. I got the e-mail. There were two: one was numbered. I've been looking for the different documents. The first concerns a numbered document of 1 p.m., Belgian time. An answer was expected in New York in the next few hours. It's true that this is the same e-mail as the one you have. In which language do I have to say "yes" to stop constantly hearing the same questions? It's exactly the same document you have in front of you. You have to stop asking me all the time! You got it!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-02-54-commissie-ic649x.u113	It's for us. He's not alone.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-02-54-commissie-ic649x.u114	Yes, yes, you don't... this is the first time! I'm really impressed, Mr. Van der Maelen, that, for once, you don't have it. That's a shame! [[Brouhahaha]] I just want to make it clear that the firm received the same e-mail number at 1:00 p.m. We've been looking for him. He had already arrived at midnight, Belgian time. You say there are hours of difference, that's right. But, I repeat, not being aware of this situation, I could hardly react. You have an opinion on the conclusions to draw, it belongs to you. We, for our part, have come to the conclusion that there is a need for a change of procedure. I've had this choice adopted by the government. I think that the majority has also expressed themselves in this direction. I would like these two debates to take place, and we will do so in the form that will best suit you. First of all, this is the procedure that we are now going to implement. The government will move forward anyway. If you don't want Parliament to be involved, it's your choice. I will have nothing more to say than what I have told you since this morning: there has been no contradiction between my statements and those of the Prime Minister. Regrets and even excuses have been expressed, because I feel that people have been shocked by the vote in ECOSOC and, more generally, by Saudi Arabia's presence in this Commission, as well as in the Human Rights Council. Now we want to move forward on a procedure that we have decided, if possible by involving you. If you don't want it, what do you want me to say? I do not dictate Parliament's agenda. On the other hand, I can submit a proposal to you. We would like to make progress, by abandoning certain hypocrisy, in the debate on our relations with Saudi Arabia. Do you want to participate in this discussion? [[That's what you're saying.]] You will receive the documents. On behalf of the government, I would like to reiterate that the incident is closed, to the point that we have given all the answers very clearly. In addition, we are ready to move forward on the two issues I have just mentioned. If you have another opinion, I can understand that.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-02-54-commissie-ic649x.u115	The problem remains.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-02-54-commissie-ic649x.u116	Which one?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-02-54-commissie-ic649x.u117	Which one? That of democracy and trust that we can give you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-02-54-commissie-ic649x.u118	Mr De Vriendt, that you do not trust me, this is not new! For Mr. Van der Maelen, this has been going on for decades, for more than ten years!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-02-54-commissie-ic649x.u119	Minister, we are actually moving forward, not just on the merits. We are moving forward, on the one hand, because we are following you; we will have this real debate on the basis of our resolution, on relations with Saudi Arabia. We're not suspects of double speeches on this, and you know that. Count on us for the debate on the new procedure, including involving Parliament in this procedure. I'll come back. On the other hand, we are also moving forward because, by asking you questions, we now know that the order given by your firm at 3:34 p.m. on April 19, 2017, was given by one of your advisors, a member of your firm. Did this advisor have his decision validated at a higher level in your cabinet, namely an assistant chief of staff or a chief of staff? You're telling me you're not. So, do you take your trust away from him? He speaks on your behalf, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-02-54-commissie-ic649x.u120	I'll confirm that again. I believe I have told you at least five times since this morning that I have not criticized the various diplomats, whether in New York, in the central services or in my office, who have spoken in this direction, following the procedure that we have always followed, without my being informed. There! You can ask me twenty-five times to repeat the same thing to you. What do you want? That I punish someone who has committed no fault in his or her duties? I myself wrote in a statement that the diplomats had acted very professionally and I am not used to acting otherwise. But there are a lot of things that come into our department every day and not just about Saudi Arabia. Indeed, as Mrs Capoen, Mrs Van Hoof and Mrs Turtelboom have already pointed out, many decisions are being made with regard to other countries, on which no question is asked. I'm just seeing that here, from minute to minute, you're trying to convince me of something that's not the truth. I haven't been informed, point. The staff applied a procedure that was quite normal in this situation. You think the opposite, that's your opinion. I confirm to you, and I cannot say otherwise, that we have taken an attitude within the government. I think I've heard everyone, in the majority as well as in the opposition. I asked the majority to go in that direction. Now, after everything we've been able to say, the excuses and regrets that we've been able to make, we're changing the procedure, and we're holding a substantive debate. It won't change any more.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-02-54-commissie-ic649x.u121	Mr President, I would not like to extend, but I was speaking and the minister interrupted me. You know I've been a member of cabinets, like prominent members who are with us today. At no time would I, as a member of a ministerial cabinet, have taken a decision as heavy as a vote in the United Nations without at least referring it to the Chief of Staff. So I really invite you to review your firm's internal procedures. In Ecolo's offices, at least, it wasn't like that. When an advisor signs a "Reynders" e-mail, I hope at least your chief of staff, head of foreign affairs, saw it. I would never have imagined, as an advisor to a minister, signing an email, an official document, on behalf of a minister, without at least the chief of staff and the minister having seen it. All right! This is your problem; solve your internal operating problems. I'm going to the procedure. You say you want to make things go back to the political level. At what level should the decision to vote for countries in United Nations commissions go back? Does that mean that every vote will be submitted to a small cabinet committee, in kern as it is said, and then to a passage to parliament? Does that mean that the heads of cabinet preparing Kern will in future be made aware of these voting procedures, in the new procedure you want and propose today?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-02-54-commissie-ic649x.u122	Mr President, I can read again the introduction you asked me to do earlier! Mr Hellings, I cannot tell you much more because I told you that as early as Thursday an instruction was sent to the posts concerned, to the central services and to my cabinet. The small firm confirmed this new procedure on Friday. A contact person has been identified in the offices of the Prime Minister and Deputy Prime Ministers to receive all information on forthcoming votes, including in the case of clean slate. Decisions will be taken at political level, even for the various bodies within ECOSOC. I have added, and this is where I want the debate to take place, that the decision is made for the government. All offices of the Deputy Prime Ministers will be informed, with direct contact with the Deputy Prime Ministers and the Prime Minister. So we'll take an attitude. I added that I am willing to discuss with you how to inform and involve Parliament in this new approach to voting, which is in principle secret. If you ask me the same question again,...
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-02-54-commissie-ic649x.u123	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-02-54-commissie-ic649x.u124	Yes, but I already answered earlier!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-02-54-commissie-ic649x.u125	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-02-54-commissie-ic649x.u126	You see, we're progressing! You're even beginning to listen to what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-02-54-commissie-ic649x.u127	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-02-54-commissie-ic649x.u128	Good morning, Mr. Nollet! [[Another new one!]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-02-54-commissie-ic649x.u129	Minister, I note that you are using the technique of the striped disc in a brilliant way by constantly repeating the same answers. I have three very simple, very basic questions. The first one. You always say we were in a routine procedure. However, we were not in a routine procedure. She had been abandoned. When the routine procedure is abandoned, is it not normal for you to be informed? First question. Secondly, when, in a document, does Reynders' signature, whoever has signed it, not Reynders' responsibility arise? When did you know about Belgium's vote? This is a specific question that you have not answered.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-02-54-commissie-ic649x.u130	Mr President, I can repeat that I was not actually aware of the voting procedure.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-02-54-commissie-ic649x.u131	That wasn't my question!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-02-54-commissie-ic649x.u132	No, but I repeat, because everything else comes from it! When you tell me about my signature, I say no! My name appears on all the documents, as on all those who leave my office, it makes perfect sense. But it's not my manual signature, it's not my electronic signature. And I know very well that we're going to want to keep repeating that we've seen my name and that... No, I didn't know. It was indeed the adviser in charge of relations with the United Nations that followed the position proposed also by all the services, namely to guarantee the same procedure. Yes, that's the usual procedure, I repeat once again...
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-02-54-commissie-ic649x.u133	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-02-54-commissie-ic649x.u134	... usual procedure when there are the same number of seats and candidates. This procedure was broken by the United States at the last moment, that is before you start the (..) and you will have the e-mail that says it. And the services considered, as we were still in a situation where the number of seats was the same as the number of candidates, that we were advancing. You're asking me how I react to that. The reaction is very clear: we will change the procedure so that I am personally informed, that I am not in a situation other than that of receiving personal information - even the circulation of documents will change - and that I can inform – we will certainly do so live – all my colleagues in Kern. You're asking me when I learned the vote from Belgium. After the vote of course!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-02-54-commissie-ic649x.u135	When was that?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-02-54-commissie-ic649x.u136	I can see exactly when I learned the news, but I didn't wake up to hear it, but it was after the vote!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-02-54-commissie-ic649x.u137	Mr President, I am trying to listen, but I have the impression that certain people are not always good at that. What I understand from the Minister is that there was a certain problem with the encryption of an e-mail. And whether or not there have been some clumsiness in encoding the e-mail which has caused it to be snowed down for an hour or more by the most likely number of e-mails that will be sent in the Foreign Affairs inbox, and whether or not the procedure followed by the Cabinet can be improved does not seem to me to be the most important thing at the moment. After all, even though Belgium had voted against and there were 46 votes in favour instead of 47, the result was the same, in the sense that Saudi Arabia is a member of the UN Women's Rights Committee. The only thing that would have been different is that Belgium's image as defender of women's rights and human rights in general would be less damaged. At the same time, however, I do not doubt the commitment of this government to make human rights a priority. I had a brief reply to Mr Dallemagne, but I find that he did not bother to stay until the end of the committee meeting. Whether Saudi Arabia is the tenth worst or worst country in terms of respect for human rights, its election to join the UN Women's Rights Commission is a fact, and that is unfortunate. Unhappiness, I believe, is the understatement of the year. However, it is also a fact that in this UN Women's Rights Commission, as well as in the UN Human Rights Council, there are many other countries which also, whether flagrant or not, violate human rights. These countries have always been elected through the clean slate procedure. We must not close our eyes to this. I can only say that the procedure is not perfect in itself and can be improved. Therefore, the N-VA can only support the evolution proposed by the Minister to change the procedure and carry out an investigation in advance on the basis of objective criteria. I hope that the other groups will agree with that.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-02-54-commissie-ic649x.u138	Minister, what do we know so far? We know that if a Member asks you a question about your decision-making, you will not bother to investigate it so that you can give a precise answer in Parliament. This applies both to your reply on Wednesday evening in committee and to the Prime Minister's reply in plenary. We also know that you have the Prime Minister say that there were only a few hours to make that decision and that only the officials of the Ministry were aware of it. Unless the Prime Minister himself wanted to hide the truth from Parliament? I do not know if this is true, but at the moment we have no other clue. With regard to the fellow Members of the N-VA and Monsieur Miller, whom I appreciate as a serious Member of Parliament, I would like to say the following. Do you not think it is a problem that we as a Parliament should have to do it with a foreign minister and a prime minister who is not telling us the whole truth and that we should be lucky to be able to put our hands on e-mails that do reveal the truth and make it clear what has been going on? Doesn't that seem particularly problematic to you? Next time we in Parliament may not have those e-mails. And then what? We must then rely on a foreign minister who has led us astray. Why was it not immediately said that the Reynders cabinet was not only informed, but also gave the green light? Why was it not immediately said that the government had nine hours to decide? Excuse me, Mr Miller and colleagues from the N-VA, but this is a problem. How can we exercise our democratic right of control if we do not have leaked e-mails? Can you give me the answer to that question? There are also the loose ends in the Minister's reply. We still need to get a copy of the e-mail that must refute our arguments as if it had been at least nine hours of reflection. As long as we have not seen this, our position remains fully valid. The government and the minister have said something else. I appreciate the admission of guilt, but I have the impression that some people want to move rather quickly to the order of the day. We have only been working for a few hours, Minister, on a foreign minister who is not telling the truth about Parliament. We've only been working on that for a few hours. If it's up to me, we can go on about this for days until we have all the evidence in our hands. Don't blame us for not wanting to talk about the content. Our resolution 'Other relations with Saudi Arabia' was tabled in September of last year, even before this indignation and commotion. I do not know which fellow Member has said it anymore, but if this leads to other relations with Saudi Arabia, we are obviously a happy group because then this result has been achieved. However, we are left with the democratic problem that the Foreign Minister and the Prime Minister say other things about Parliament and the people, which do not correspond to the truth. Parliament is therefore looking forward to this. How are we supposed to deal with that? Tell me.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-02-54-commissie-ic649x.u139	Mr President, Minister, I will also repeat myself: three hours, six hours, nine hours, one hour... the question is not here today because it would have taken only ten seconds to say "no" when Saudi Arabia arrived on this Commission on Women's Rights. Unfortunately, we have not had the courage to make this decision and this has implications for our country's credibility on the international stage. The first problem is this one. The second problem, of course, is that of confidence today in the decisions taken by your firm and by yourself. Mr Minister, I am sorry, but after all the debates we have just had, I still do not understand how this vote could have taken place. I still do not understand why, at some point, when we have before our eyes: "vote Saudi Arabia - Commission on Women's Rights", we do not react. Why don't you and your firm react? I do not understand why the Prime Minister and his cabinet do not respond. I do not understand how this vote was taken, why we did not vote 'no'! We still don't understand why your side of the story and the Prime Minister's side of the story don't agree. Why didn't you say the same thing? Yes, you can show signs of annoyance. I can understand them because we have been discussing them for a long time, but, I'm sorry, I have just as much about you because you haven't answered our questions and you are sweeping away these contradictions, which, however, are flagrant when we read the transcripts. I still do not understand, minister, why you did not tell us, when we asked you in committee, that your cabinet was aware of this vote. Why didn't you say you had time to say something? Why didn't you talk about your e-mail, which gave the green light to this vote? Why didn't you tell us that Belgium wanted to let us know that it had voted for Saudi Arabia? So I greeted the apologies and regrets; I probably did more than any of my colleagues because I think it's important. But these attempts to try to hide the truth through lies, at least by omission, on the part of Minister Reynders give the impression that the minister sought to escape his responsibilities. He tried to escape his responsibilities! I am quite open and happy that we can discuss a change of procedure and that the debate is open, including to parliamentarians. But I repeat that we should have opposed this designation, and we could have done so, minister. And that's where the problem arises. We had the information and we had the time. So it was a serious mistake that was committed by yourself and it would have deserved a strong gesture. The changes in procedure are very good, but today we have a problem of trust. How can one still have confidence in you or your firm when you do not understand the importance of a decision such as that taken at the United Nations? Mr. Minister, your office is you! You have to take political responsibility for it, but now you are not taking on anything and I regret it!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-02-54-commissie-ic649x.u140	Mr President, I have already had the opportunity to express our view, which is contrary to that of Mrs Grovonius, whom I respect as a parliamentarian. We know each other and we know how quickly the files can be hot and cleavage between us. We have heard the minister say on several occasions that there was a mistake. He apologized and explained at length that the problem was the application of a procedure which was not the work of a collaborator or someone who, suddenly, would have felt that Belgium's policy on the defence of women's rights should be completely shaken and changed. This is not at all! A procedure did not work. Taking on his responsibilities, the Minister proposed in Kern an extremely interesting amendment to the procedure. We support it and hope that we will be able to find a way between us to involve Parliament as best as possible in this type of decision. According to some, our country's credibility on the international stage would have suffered. I know I'm in the majority. So I may not be able to convince you. In any case, as a parliamentarian, I feel the opposite. The minister has said this on several occasions: we are the only country where the Prime Minister has addressed the House of Representatives to say what our country's vote was and to express his regret, while explaining that we are going to change the procedure. That is what the Minister of Foreign Affairs has done. For my part, I am rather proud of the process! We deeply regret, as Mrs Jadin said on behalf of our group, the vote that allowed Saudi Arabia's representatives to sit on a committee to deal with women's rights. It is a mistake that has been recognized. For us, the time has come to move forward. There is a need to change the procedure, to open a debate on our country's relations with Saudi Arabia at all levels - federal and federal - in economic terms. You can smile at me, Miss Grovonius, and I'm smiling at you too. You know very well what we are talking about, since we met in a committee dealing with arms exports. Therefore, we know the problem, probably even unlike many of the members present here - but that is another question. Mr President, I shall sum up my remarks with all the respect that is due to the work of the opposition, which has fulfilled its task by asking questions. It was thanks to it that the parliamentary debate took place both in plenary session and in committee, and that distinguished spokesmen from the government, Minister of Foreign Affairs and Prime Minister, expressed their regret at this vote on behalf of our country and their willingness to change the procedure in question. This will have consequences at the international level, as I said earlier. For my part, I believe that the credibility of our country has not been undermined. We must now do a real pedagogy in explaining the foreign affairs activities in terms of external trade, but also in the defence of human rights and women's rights, as well as the freedoms to which my group is particularly committed. I know that each of the parliamentarians in this Chamber is also committed to these rights and freedoms. Unlike Mr. De Vriendt, I consider that we have taken a look at the question. The minister replied. He can still be asked twenty-five times the question. He said he didn't know. Mrs Grovonius, you say it takes ten seconds. Yes, ten seconds is enough. And the confidence I have in our Foreign Minister is such that I agree with you. Why? Because I know if he'd known, within ten seconds, the file would have been blocked. I am sure of that.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-02-54-commissie-ic649x.u141	After the words of my colleague, Richard Miller, I have little to add, except that the minister, in view of his proposal, comes out of this crisis with his head high. Finally, what was going on? There was clearly a procedural problem, and the minister made a proposal. We had a problem of comprehensive relations with Saudi Arabia, the minister made proposals. I am half French, half Belgian, and I am extremely proud to be Belgian from this point of view. For in the country of Mrs Grovonius, where the French Foreign Minister is a socialist, I wonder whether the minister's correspondent in France has given his explanations on the vote of France. In Portugal, led by the Socialists, was the same explained? I am talking about the countries that voted. In Italy, with a socialist minister, has this been explained? In Greece, led by the party you like, has it been explained? In the Czech Republic, led by a Socialist Prime Minister, has this been explained? And environmentalists are right to ask questions, and that is democracy too. But I would like to point out that in Sweden a socialist and green government is taking part in the vote. Did we ask the question? And Chile also has a socialist government. Did we ask the question? And so I can continue the list! And don't tell me that maybe the seven countries voted against it!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-02-54-commissie-ic649x.u142	Mr President, of course it always depends on the majority parties to what extent this is a fundamental problem or not, and to what extent majority parties allow government members not to tell the truth to Parliament. What is certain is that you have a very great responsibility here, Minister, both for our country's unacceptable voting behaviour for Saudi Arabia and for the fact that Parliament and our people have been deceived. The Prime Minister has also said things in Parliament that are factually incorrect. So can we still have confidence in the word of a member of the government or should we really call on leaked e-mails so that the truth can come to light? I can count on you, Minister, to provide us with the documents we owe you, so that you can at least argue one of your arguments with proof, with what is on paper. I also look in the direction of the Open Vld, CD&V and N-VA. I hope those parties don't let this go blue-blue. It's the only way I can decide. I also hope that our resolution to achieve other relations with Saudi Arabia, which are fairer, more correct and more consistent, will be adopted as soon as possible, so that we do not have to go through this kind of situation anymore, so that our red lines are clear: human rights and women's rights over economic interests. It must be done that we regard Saudi Arabia as our natural ally, because that simply cannot be defended anymore.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-02-54-commissie-ic649x.u143	Mr De Vriendt, you have nothing to worry about. Last week in plenary, we made it very clear that we regret this vote. The Prime Minister said so. Had the Minister known that the vote would take place, I do not think it would have taken place either. You may appeal to me as a member of the majority. This majority has made this very clear. I am pleased that procedures are in place to ensure that we can prevent this in the future. That's what politics is for me. That is going to the substance of the matter and not just to see whether it is one or two or three minutes.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-02-54-commissie-ic649x.u144	A brief reflection on my part. I always hear the minister here handy say he wasn't aware. That might be possible, but he doesn't need to know to be politically responsible. The government itself admits that a very wrong decision has been made here, for which no one is going to bear the responsibility. One will only change the procedure. I don't think this is possible. I'm sticking to my question. I speak in my personal name, colleague. I know you don't like that. I will stick to my question that we need to be clear about everything that has gone wrong here. We must get all the documents used for decision-making within the government. Now I've said my opinion. I suggest we finish. I do not want to have any problems with the chairmen of other committees, because other committees start at 2 p.m. Will you give me a mandate to look together with the Minister's cabinet for a date for the debate on Saudi Arabia?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-02-54-commissie-ic649x.u145	Mr President, I was here for that debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-02-54-commissie-ic649x.u146	We are going to work together to find a date for this debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-02-54-commissie-ic649x.u147	Mr President, you are asking me a question. I'm trying to give you an answer. My answer is that I've been here for four hours to do that. I followed a procedural debate for half an hour. I have answered the same question ten times.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-02-54-commissie-ic649x.u148	We are going to have the in-depth debate on Saudi Arabia in this committee. The Minister and I will find a date. Okay?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-02-54-commissie-ic649x.u149	Mr President, is it still possible for the government to say something?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-02-54-commissie-ic649x.u150	I'm sure you can.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-02-54-commissie-ic649x.u151	Mr President, thank you and thank you to the smaller Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, of which a number of very famous Members are not present. I've seen a number of members and not anymore. I'll repeat it in French because maybe we'll also understand in both languages then. I repeat that... I have been here for almost four hours now to have this debate, since it was on your agenda, if I am not mistaken: it was also about relations with Saudi Arabia. But that doesn't seem to be the first topic. I am simply saying that I attended a procedural debate for half an hour. That's interesting. I have repeated about ten times the same answers to the same questions. I note that, with a majority, we want to move forward on two points. And that's why I'm answering you in more detail. One is the procedure that we are implementing at the start of the government for any future vote in the United Nations; in this regard, I would like to have an exchange with Parliament on how to do so. I would even like to do it first with my colleagues to see what the exchanges are, or to do it directly in the session. And then, of course, I am available to have this debate on our relations with Saudi Arabia, as it was mentioned in part of the debates today. For the rest, I have nothing else to add. I believe that it will indeed take a moment to finally address this fundamental problem of relations between our country and Saudi Arabia. I just want to point out, for the rest, that when I hear a number of comments on what has been said or not, so far, including in a fairly large number of European Union countries, since the question is not whether the answer is correct or not, there is a refusal to give an answer to the question of how States voted because the vote is secret. There you go. I am not going to go back to the composition of governments. I even know that for one of the countries in question, a group – Wikileaks if I'm not mistaken – offers $10,000 on the internet to know what the vote was. I hope that one day, Mr Hellings or Mr De Vriendt, you can tell me what Sweden's vote was, for example. You certainly have contacts with your colleagues in this country. We are the only country, I say the only country, where it took a question for the Prime Minister – because I have of course had to consult with him to break a rule of secret voting – to announce Belgium's vote. We have clearly announced this vote, with all the consequences that it may have. I still do not know which other countries, including Europeans, voted in the same direction or not. I wanted to say it because I hear so many statements of principle. And of course, Mr President, I fully agree to come back to discuss the substance of the matter, namely relations with Saudi Arabia, such as the new procedure. When I come back, I will of course be just as available to hear first half an hour or three quarters of an hour of procedural debate. I've been in this house long enough to know how things work. If for this debate on Saudi Arabia, some groups want to be strengthened by their group leader or deputy group leader, there is really no problem, I will be happy to hear them. I always regret that not everyone is left to the end of such an important debate. I would just like to add one thing because I think it is important in relations with Parliament. Mrs Turtelboom asked for an annual report on our relations with several countries in the field of voting in the United Nations. I also believe that this is important, including as far as the trade agreements are concerned. I have already reported to the committee on the trade agreements once. It will happen for the second time this year. Mr President, you will undoubtedly share the same memory: at the beginning of that committee meeting there were two of us, you and I. Then there were four or five of us. There were no cameras back then, that's the truth.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-02-54-commissie-ic649x.u152	We have already achieved the first: we will have a thorough debate on our policy on Saudi Arabia.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-02-54-commissie-ic649x.u153	Minister, we are a very small group, indeed. You stressed it, but it's not up to your talent, nor your gentlemanhood. Even if it's not very elegant, it's no big deal. Mr President, our agenda referred to the resolution.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-02-54-commissie-ic649x.u154	We know each other, Mr. Hellings! I simply noticed that for a debate like this, sometimes we could see group leaders and deputy group leaders coming. I simply regret that these do not remain until the end of the debate. But obviously, they are less interested.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-02-54-commissie-ic649x.u155	Unlike your firm, our group is particularly well organized when a sensitive subject appears on the agenda of a commission. Mr President, I assume that the broad debate on Saudi Arabia will take place on the basis of the text of the motion for a resolution that was on the agenda today. All colleagues will be able to amend it as they wish, as has already been done. I think it would be a good war if we could work that way.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-02-54-commissie-ic649x.u156	Mr Hellings, that seems logical to me. We're leaving with your text as a base. Ladies and gentlemen, I am trying to close this sitting, but I have a second point. I have been in contact with Minister De Croo's cabinet, who is not available today, but who would like to come to our committee next week. We have also been in contact with the Prime Minister. He's not available today. This afternoon he has an appointment at the Palace and also meets the National Security Committee. I will explain to the committee whether she thinks it is necessary to invite the Prime Minister at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-02-54-commissie-ic649x.u157	Mr President, our opinion has not changed. I think there is no agreement in the committee because there is no agreement on whether or not there are contradictions. However, the minister indicated that there was no contradiction. So there's no reason to hear the Prime Minister here. You have contacted the Prime Minister's office, when there is no consensus of the commission to call him. It's a bit surprising, but if you want to clarify this issue by a vote, let's go!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-02-54-commissie-ic649x.u158	Ladies and gentlemen, I hope that Parliament will now do what it has been elected to do. I believe that we can all assume that the Prime Minister in last Thursday's plenary has said things that are not right. Why? We can discuss that. There are several versions, but if the Prime Minister says that only the foreign officials were aware and that there was only a few hours of reflection, then I hope we can now agree that that is not true. Either the Prime Minister has been misinformed by the Minister for Foreign Affairs, or he is also hiding matters from Parliament. His version doesn't add up. Can we please do what we were elected to do and confront the Prime Minister with these facts so that we can move forward?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-02-54-commissie-ic649x.u159	Ladies and gentlemen, we can debate this for hours to come. I propose that the proposal be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-02-54-commissie-ic649x.u160	If I understand correctly, Mr De Croo will be coming next week to explain his policy on equality between men and women and what he is doing in development cooperation, but not necessarily on this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-02-54-commissie-ic649x.u161	I'm sure there'll be a connection.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-02-54-commissie-ic649x.u162	If there are questions, there are questions, but the approach is to explain his policy on equality between men and women.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-02-54-commissie-ic649x.u163	That's right. He will explain his human rights policy with great attention to women's rights. There will inevitably be talk of voting behaviour in relation to the Women's Rights Committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-02-54-commissie-ic649x.u164	We won't try to avoid the debate with Alexander De Croo, will we? Alexander De Croo said last Wednesday that he wanted to defend the election of Saudi Arabia on the Women's Rights Committee. He didn't think that was a problem. He thought that was a good thing. The e-mails also show that the De Croo cabinet was perfectly aware of the Belgian government's vote. They were also in the e-mails. So there are one or two questions for Minister De Croo, Mrs Turtelboom. Let us perhaps agree that we can ask a number of pertinent questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-02-54-commissie-ic649x.u165	That will be inevitable, knowing Parliament. I would ask you to invite the Prime Minister to our committee by way of a vote.
