ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic593x.u1	Question No 15981 is erroneously placed on the Committee's agenda. It is addressed to Mr Borsus.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic593x.u2	ENGIE Electrabel announced, at the end of the extraordinary works council on 20 January, that it would want to make drastic savings. Electrabel confirms a savings plan of 430 million in Benelux by 2018. There are 275 job closures at Electrabel in Belgium. Did Electrabel inform you of this plan? I come out of what I wrote because since then, it has been known that, in fact, all this is known but that you would have requested a postponement of the review of this plan after the final vote on the extension of the nuclear power plants. Can you confirm these elements or not? Did you know about this? When were you informed? What are the rationales and objectives of this plan? What is the precise content? What positions are targeted? What guarantees do you have that safety and security are already failing – should I recall the letters from the AFCN and the multiple incidents? – are not negatively impacted? What guarantees do you have that cybersecurity is already failing (cf. the many problems already demonstrated recently including by the press) are not negatively affected by a reduction in IT costs which is explicitly addressed in the measures of the plan? More broadly, what link can or should be made between this decision and the Bianca project that we have already talked about?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic593x.u3	Mr President, Mr Nollet, this is the information that Electrabel has given me. Electrabel SA announced, after an extraordinary business council on 20 January 2016, that it would implement a savings plan. Electrabel confirms a €430 million savings plan in Benelux by 2018. There were 275 job closures in Belgium at Electrabel and this is a voluntary departure plan. The federal government has been informed of this cost reduction plan. The company recalled the difficult market context in which this plan was developed and its determination to transform the Benelux business unit in an accelerated manner. I was told that this transformation project is quite consistent with the overall strategy of the ENGIE Group, which aims to be a key player in the energy transition in Europe as elsewhere. I was also informed that this plan and the underlying strategic objectives were discussed with staff representatives. I have noted that only 15 per cent of the cost reduction relates to the reduction of staff costs. I have learned that voluntary departure forms are open primarily to staff of the Marketing and Sales gas and electricity division as well as support staff. As far as sales activities are concerned, we know that competition in the Belgian market is very intense and that consumer mobility is very high. Our gas and electricity market has become very competitive and the impact of digitalisation is strongly felt as in other sectors, such as banking or insurance, cf. recent restructuring in these areas. Market conditions and technological developments have a significant impact on the energy sector, where, in a process of accelerated change, some jobs disappear and others are created. The restructuring under way is entirely at the expense of Electrabel. Major efforts are being made, in consultation with trade union representatives, to train workers in the trades of the future. It was also confirmed to me, as it was taken up in the press and repeated by Mrs Kocher in parliament on 24 January 2017, that the cost reductions do not concern nuclear activities in Doel and Tihange. This economic plan will therefore have no impact on nuclear safety or security. At the hearing of the Nuclear Safety Committee on 22 November 2016, it was clarified that cybersecurity for nuclear power plants was not a problem. In addition, Electrabel assured me that cost-cutting efforts would have no impact on nuclear safety in the broad sense. The performance plan also affects the entire ENGIE group in the world, not just Belgium. I note that Mrs Kocher replied on 24 January 2017 on the subject of Bianca that she was open to strengthening the local anchoring of her Belgian subsidiaries by opening up the capital to local investors.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic593x.u4	Minister, as we know, the nuclear sector is not doing well financially. We see it with EDF and Toshiba. Prospects are down in terms of stock exchanges and investments. ENGIE is affected by this, as it remains under nuclear pressure in our country. It's not for nothing that the Bianca plan was solicited. You relayed Mrs. Kocher's remarks, but you didn't say what you thought. But that is what matters. I was talking to you, not Mrs. Kocher. Indeed, I had noted his statements well. Similarly, you do not tell me when you have been informed of the restructuring plan. You're just saying, "The government has been informed." I was referring to an article that stated that you had been warned before and that you had asked to post the release of the information, because you first wanted to vote for your extension of Doel 1 and 2 power plants. You don't say a word about the moment you were informed. Then you repeat Ms. Kocher's remarks, saying that there are no cybersecurity issues. I believe that he has not been given the report of the sub-committee hearings or the press reports on various problems in this regard. You make sure that there will be no deletion of security-related positions – particularly in the computer field. I will, of course, monitor the progress of the case. In any case, I can't pretend that there was no cybersecurity problem. Otherwise, we wouldn't be talking about it. I therefore expect additional information from you on the date you were informed and on the Bianca plan.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic593x.u5	Mr President, honourable Member, I have been informed verbally. I can't tell you exactly when. It was at the end of the year, in December, or already at the beginning of January. To answer your question, in reality, the extension of Doel 1 and Doel 2 was already accomplished since beautiful lurette. That said, who am I to block an international company and ask it – excuse me for a little – to do what it wants to do when I decide? If you are linking this question to the extension, know, in any case, that the extension was done for a very long time since it was completed since June 2015. What I think should be your focus, if it is your focus too, is the company and its human resources capabilities. Having raised my concern, I have asked questions that you also seem to be asking yourself. For example, I asked whether these departures would make the company's skilled workforce more difficult. I was told that no and that only the business unit located in Brussels would be the subject of a voluntary departure plan negotiated with the trade unions, which is itself part of a more comprehensive plan which has already given rise to other waves of departures and which is only in its umpteenth phase. If I remember correctly, that's what came out of the interview I had. I said: "As long as you have negotiated all this with the unions, as long as you are going to step up the training of staff towards what you want in the context of the energy transition – since this is all about the new technologies that are very much needed in this context – and there is no problem with the operation of your nuclear fleet, I obviously have no problem." I was very well warned well in advance – be reassured – and, frankly, quite far in the time of the actual completion of the extension of Doel 1 and Doel 2. As for the Bianca plan, you saw that Mrs. Kocher was very careful. She said that there must first be an interest in the local territory. This interest has not been expressed in any way. That means there's nothing. That's exactly what it means. There is nothing to say, in its head, "the Belgian State wants this or that" or "the market allows this or that". On the other hand, I still care about the situation. I therefore requested an interview with Mrs Kocher which has not yet taken place. We'll set an appointment. I'll see you. I tried to see her when she came for the Nuclear Safety Committee, but her schedule did not allow her. She's been busy. You've, in part, been busy, too. So I said that I would wait for a next time before setting a date where we can still have an exchange of at least one hour, what she sees and what I can answer her. For now, I can't think of anything more because I don't have accurate information.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic593x.u6	Thank you, Minister, for this additional information. Mr Nollet, I give you the floor for a second reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic593x.u7	Minister, I understand that you are waiting for this meeting and that, therefore, you cannot say much at the moment on this aspect.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic593x.u8	On this first question, I observe that the preliminary drafts are brief but that the exchanges are long.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic593x.u9	Madam Minister, in the third week of January, and also in the subsequent period, there was a cold wave in our country, as in France and in the neighbouring countries. Free days during the winter months are traditionally a challenge for achieving the necessary capacity, especially for the consumption peak between 17 hours and 20 hours. For this, you have extended a number of reactors in life together with the coalition partners. At the top of the peak was the temporary unavailability of Objective 4 due to an accident at work. Elia first announced that there were no problems in the power supply, but the strategic reserves needed to be addressed, at least according to reports in the media. There was also a threat of scarcity in France. At that time, a number of reactors were shut down, which meant that imports from France were not evident. I have the following questions about that period. Can you give us an overview of the charted consumption peak in the third week of January 2017? How was the necessary capacity foreseen? How much power had to be imported in that week? In what way and from which countries was the import organised? Which reactors were unavailable at the time? Was it necessary to address the strategic reserves? I submitted this question a few weeks ago. I had also asked if you would expect any problems in the coming weeks, but in the meantime it has become a lot happier and springier again. Therefore, there will probably no longer be any problems in the coming weeks, but would the exit plan have been up to date if the opening period of Objective 1 and Objective 2 had not been extended by this government? How do you explain that there are sufficient strategic reserves for the winter period 2016-2017, but that you will still increase 150 megawatts for the next winter period?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic593x.u10	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I can answer your first question as follows. On the website of Elia you can get the daily and weekly charts with the total load via the link www.elia.be. On the basis of the calendar, you can at any time look up the data for the previous 365 days by setting the reference date. The complete overview of the total tax for the period from 15 to 20 January 2017 can also be consulted via this link. At my employee, present here, you can find an overview of the highest measured and scaled consumption peaks of the third week of 2017, as well as the estimate of consumption peaks at that time. The highest peaks of consumption, except on 20 January, were measured during the evening between 5 p.m. and 8 p.m. The answer to your second question is the same. You can consult the daily and weekly import charts on Elia's website via the same link. On the basis of the calendar, you can at any time look up the data for the previous 365 days by setting the reference date. To your third question I can answer that in Belgium all nuclear power stations, except Tihange 1, were available. Then I come to your fourth question. An activation of the strategic reserves has not been necessary in the past week. Then I come to your fifth question. As of Friday, 20 January, the situation is likely to be tense again. Elia, however, remains vigilant and will keep me informed of the situation. It is clear that the evolution of the nuclear fleet in France and the level of imports that we will be able to benefit from, in particular in the case of low temperatures, combined with a small volume of renewable energy, are crucial points. There are still important elements that need to be taken into account to ensure our security of supply. For your next question, the risk of activation of the discharge plan would obviously have been higher without Doel 1 and Doel 2 – I have already had the opportunity to say so several times – and this, especially since the volume of our imports was, at times, limited. The estimate of 900 megawatts was made on the basis of probabilistic calculations. Remember that the closure of an additional gas plant, especially Drogenbos, was announced for the next winter. The gas plants in Seraing and Vilvoorde, accounting for 750 megawatts, were contracted for three winters. This winter, that contract is coming to an end. In November 2016, Elia identified no need for strategic reserves for the winter from 2016 to 2017 in a situation where the entire Belgian nuclear park is functioning again, as is the case with the extension of Objective 1 and Objective 2 and the restart of Objective 3 and Tihange 2. I come to the basic scenario based on the normal availability of the French nuclear park. At the time of the analysis, no unavailability was known. They weren't established until the end of the summer. For the winter 2017-2018, in a scenario in which a nuclear power plant in Belgium and nine nuclear plants in France are absent throughout the winter, a need of 900 megawatts was calculated to meet the legal criteria. This scenario was used because no additional information was available on 15 January 2017 on whether or not the Belgian and French nuclear park is fully available for the winter 2017-2018. At the same time, our essential exports to ensure security of supply may at times be very limited. Tensions on the electricity market in November 2016 clearly demonstrated the need for a strategic reserve. On the basis of these elements, I instructed Elia to set up a reserve of 900 megawatts, taking into account the role played by the strategic reserves to ensure Belgian supplies.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic593x.u11	Madam Minister, in the meantime, your colleague has been so proactive in e-mailing me all the necessary information, for which I am grateful. I note that, despite the cold period and the difficulties in the French nuclear park, Belgium has never experienced any difficulties on the network. I think we should make an assessment at the end of the winter. You would be well advised to have a good plan for the strategic reserves available for next year. I note that you are actively working on this!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic593x.u12	Mr President, Minister, the management of radioactive waste is a subject on which we have had a number of exchanges of views. By August 2015, Belgium had to submit to the European Commission a first national programme for the management of nuclear fuels and radioactive waste. That happened with some delay. It was discussed and approved at the Council of Ministers on 30 June. However, through a favourable wind I achieved the following. There might be some questions about the content of that national programme, which would not meet all the substantive and formal requirements and which would not entirely meet the criteria of the European Commission. It would be nothing more than a historical overview of what happened in the past to nuclear waste in Belgium, but it would not contain a future vision or catalogue of future management options. The programme was also not subject to an environmental impact assessment or public consultation, although this was explicitly requested. Madam Secretary, I have the following questions. Is it true that the national programme does not meet the requirements of the European Commission? And in that case, why not? Why was the national programme, which was approved by the Council of Ministers on 30 June, still not published in the Belgian Official Journal, unless it had been published by now? Can this information be shared with MEPs?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic593x.u13	Mr President, Mr Calvo, so far the government has received no comment from the European Commission that the national programme would not meet its requirements. In addition, Article 12 of European Directive 2011/70/Euratom provides that the national programme clarifies how national policies are implemented. In the absence of a new national policy on the management of spent nuclear fuels and radioactive waste on 31 December 2014, the first Belgian national programme was limited to describing the existing situation. I would remind you that for the adoption of the national programme, the Minister for Economic Affairs and myself, on 20 August 2015, the SEA Advisory Committee consulted to determine whether an environmental impact assessment should be carried out in the context of the preparation of this programme. In its opinion of 11 September 2015, the SEA Advisory Committee confirmed that the first edition of the national programme should not be the subject of such an assessment. The national programme has been sent by my administration to the departments responsible for the Belgian Official Journal. These services have taken a long time to adapt the layout of the national programme to the format of the Belgian Official Journal. I asked my administration to take the necessary action at the Belgian Official Journal to speed up publication. I would like to remind you that this document is available on the website www.cpnpc.be.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic593x.u14	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer and perhaps come back to this subject at a later stage.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic593x.u15	Madam Minister, in 2015 we here in Parliament adopted a law on extending the lifespan of Objective 1 and Objective 2. That law made it very clear that in return for the extension, the Energy Transition Fund should be set up, in which the income resulting from the extension would be paid each year. The aim of the Energy Transition Fund is to encourage and support research and development of innovative projects in the field of energy, in particular energy production and storage. The King would lay down the conditions of use for the fund by decision, although of course after consultation with the Council of Ministers. At the end of 2016, it became clear to us that the royal decision that would determine the modalities was still not taken. During the discussion of your policy paper, you stated that you would submit the Royal Decree to the Council of Ministers for approval by early 2017, so that it could enter into force effectively. As it is now February 2017, I would have liked to have seen the state of play. Have you actually submitted the royal decision to the Council of Ministers? What is the content of the royal decree? What conditions of use are laid down? The conditions of use of the Energy Transition Fund will include, inter alia, the selection criteria and the organisation of the Fund. Do you already have an idea of the innovative projects for which the federal state is competent and which are eligible for funding? Could you give us a more detailed explanation? Have applications been submitted for funding?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic593x.u16	Minister, as part of your policy brief, the Energy Transition Fund was discussed. I am not going to repeat everything my colleague has just said. It is expected to receive EUR 200 million. In the discussions we have conducted, it has been stated that the royal decree allowing the realization of the fund must be submitted to the Council of Ministers for approval by the beginning of January at the latest. It's February 14th. Where is this case and what projects can be funded from this fund?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic593x.u17	As I mentioned earlier, a royal decree is currently being drawn up defining the operating modalities of the Energy Transition Fund. A first draft was recently discussed by the government parties and is modified on the basis of the comments received. I hope to be able to present a final draft to the Council of Ministers. As regards the projects that may be entitled to the funds of the Energy Transition Fund, Article 8 of the Law of 28 June 2015 laying down various energy provisions provides the following, and all words are important: "1° Measures to stimulate and support research and development in innovative projects within the energy domain within the framework of the powers of the Federal State. 2° Measures to maintain and/or develop and/or examine a system to ensure security of supply and balance of supply, in particular in relation to energy production and storage, as well as demand management. Finally, it is too early to identify concrete projects. In view of the provisions of foreign legislation and the relatively limited powers of the federal state in the field of energy, they will be directed towards large-scale (very important) production in the fields of storage, renewable energy production in the North Sea, nuclear research and energy management. We realized, by working and discussing with the government partners at a time when all the laws relating to the nuclear stock had been definitively voted and when the 20 million already registered in cash had become those of the Belgian State, that we had to format this royal decree as finely as possible in order not to encroach on the powers of the Regions in this field and to succeed in presenting a picture of the possibilities for the applicant not to err when it would cover segments of the competence of the Regions. It is this work that we do and it is progressing well. I hope to be able to come as soon as possible with a final royal decree.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic593x.u18	Madam Secretary, thank you for your explanation. You indicate that this is progressing well, which is, of course, relative. It is from 2015 that we have passed the law. There have already been several deadlines: December 2016, then January 2017 and now we are already in February 2017. However, if it is being worked on and given proper thought, we look forward to the royal decision. In any case, I would like to insist that the dossier should not be postponed, but that it should be effectively carried out. The creation of the Energy Transition Fund was an important condition for extending the lifetime of Objective 1 and Objective 2. I would urge that no euro be lost. That amount of EUR 20 million per year should be effectively included in that fund. It's not because the royal decree isn't there yet, that we can lose money. So I expect all the money to be fully paid in, even if the KB still has to be worked out. I hope that no euro will be lost, which will certainly benefit the Energy Transition Fund.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic593x.u19	Mr. Lachaert asked me that question. The money is already recorded at the fund level, on a specific budget line, entitled "Energy Transition Fund". The money that has already been collected from the state's account can be found in this place, which is a separate area from the entire budget, otherwise we could not use it. We have already budgeted the next $20 million for 2017, which will reach us before the end of June. In order to be able to use them, the royal decree is necessary and will have to pass to the Council of State to receive its remarks. When this process is completed, we will discuss it in committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic593x.u20	Minister, this legislation is dated June 18, 2015. The royal decree was promised a year and a half later but did not arrive. As it still has to move to the Council of State, we will not receive anything until Easter, if the Council of Ministers and the parties of the majority agree on how to use the fund. We know the law, we have discussed it. The majority said that it was not clear what was or would be eligible. It is time to give a signal since it is meant to be energy "transition". In 2019, it will be too late to implement it. People don't know what to do, how to intervene, and so we're taking a huge delay.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic593x.u21	Madam Minister, this is not the first time we have asked questions about the energy vision in the Energy Pact. There too, the deadlines have already moved on. On 30 January, for the first time, a meeting was held between the various Energy Ministers. That's been in the media too. Apparently, the first agreements have been made to reach an energy pact. Since we were not yet able to speak in committee, I have questions about what will happen next. Probably agreements were made and procedures agreed. However, I find little about this, including on your website. You met on January 30th. The aim is to achieve a common vision for the energy targets by 2030 and 2050. Can you give us an update on this consultation? What arrangements were made in concrete terms? It was also intended to set a timetable. Can you give me more information on that? When's the next meeting? What's to be done by then? Have different dates been set for next meetings so that it progresses? Can you tell me that, too? How do you intend to achieve a well-founded interfederal energy vision on the basis of the different visions? Apparently, four working groups have been set up, each managed by an entity. How should each working group achieve this vision? Were procedures agreed on how the working groups should work, how they should be composed, who should be involved? Which experts and bodies will be consulted? So, Madam Minister, I would like to know more about the agreements made on that date, the further timing and how that pact will be achieved.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic593x.u22	Mr President, Madam Minister, I am not going to repeat everything that my colleague has just said, but only to remind you that you had a meeting on January 30th. I join all the specific questions in saying that the method you are using to work on this energy pact has not yet been understood. What are the content elements that are finally the subject of an agreement between the Federal and the Regions? What method is agreed between the federal and the Regions? What are the points of disagreement? What is the timing of the next steps?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic593x.u23	Mr President, various players in the energy sector have still recently and publicly expressed their views on the lack of a medium- and long-term energy vision in our country. Thus, in the columns of the Soir, Christophe Decrez, the boss of Eneco, confirmed that his company "had plans to invest in a gas power plant in Beringen but the project was dropped. The instability was too strong. Today, the investor doesn't know where we're going. So we don't invest." It confirmed that because of the delays in the Pact (announced in your 2015 government agreement), our country is missing opportunities for transition and job creation. Minister, during our last discussion on this subject, you were telling us to meet with your regional colleagues on January 30 with a view to finalizing a methodology and schedule of work in this area. Two years late, it didn't take any more! What about it? What method of work and schedule can you finally announce? When will Belgium have an energy pact worthy of that name?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic593x.u24	Mr President, Madam Minister, you regularly point out, quite rightly, the importance of being able to draw up an inter-federal energy pact to give our country a short-, medium- and long-term energy strategy. The pre-development phase of this Pact is the definition of an energy vision. As a reminder, since the subject matter is inter-federal, the progress of this issue is also partly linked to the proactivity of the regional governments, who wanted, before defining an inter-federal vision, to define their own vision on the subject, before setting themselves around the table. You had a first meeting on Monday, January 30th. Minister, what is the result of this first working meeting with your counterparts in the federated entities? What follow-up will be given by the different levels of power to ensure the conclusion of the energy pact as soon as possible? Do you already have a timetable for the next steps towards a common vision? Have the Regions already defined their respective energy visions?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic593x.u25	Mr President, as you will recall, on 30 January it was Mr Calvo's birthday. The latter had expressed the desire to receive as a gift the first meeting of the energy ministers of that country, as planned, that day.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic593x.u26	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic593x.u27	And today is Valentine's Day. Let's talk about desire!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic593x.u28	Today is Valentine's Day and March 15 is in a month. All this is certain! I am very pleased – and I thank him, here, publicly, as I did the day we met – that Mr. Christophe Lacroix immediately agreed to respond to the invitation to stand up because, like you, Mr. Calvo, he did not expect to come and talk about energy on January 30. I said to Mr Lacroix: "Christophe, you must know that I have a Member of Parliament who absolutely wants this meeting to take place on 30 January. You absolutely have to come." And he came. We were able to make our first meeting. Subject to the fact that we had a colleague, you will admit him with me, who was to read the file – Mrs.Lalieux, I remind you that we were the day after his appointment; he did not yet know very well who there would be in his cabinet – we met and discussed methodology. The meeting lasted about an hour and a half. Initially, without finality, the methodology chosen was to say that each minister would choose a subject on which he would establish the existing points of convergence, possible opposition points, the efforts to be made, the strategy to be followed and the challenges for the future (everything technologically innovative for the future in these subjects). The first one that came out of the wood to make a choice – that's not going to surprise you – is Mr.Tommelein who wanted to choose production. You saw that there was immediately a reaction in the head of the stakeholders, not only in relation to this choice, but in relation to the various statements he had already made, knowing also – I am already responding a little to Mrs Cassart – that he will, in the coming days, present to the Flemish government his energy vision for Flanders. He had already told us about it. He wanted to rely on that to postpone the meeting on January 30th. I refused: "I have a Walloon minister, freshly emotional, who will come, we keep the meeting and we continue to work." Moreover, the Federal State has chosen the flexibility of interconnections, the Brussels-Capital Region, the governance and the Walloon Region, the functioning of the market. We decided to meet again on March 15 to share the work done by each of us in the areas we have assigned ourselves. With regard to regional energy visions, the federal state has started to develop its energy vision since 2 December, when we tabled a guidance note to the Council of Ministers. We will discuss this earlier with the projects related to storage and demand management. I have just told you about the Flemish Region. As far as the Walloon Region is concerned, provisions have been put in place, but I do not yet know them precisely, since I will see how Mr Lacroix will position himself at the meeting on 15 March. The Brussels-Capital Region has developed projects to be presented at this meeting. We have not yet decided on a methodology, but one thing is of course: I have drawn the attention of my colleagues – not all of them agree – to the fact that it was essential to see experts working with us on specific issues. In addition, we need to organise a broad consultation and exchange with the stakeholders, the usual ones, those from organised civil society or those from trade unions, NGOs, workers' representatives, bodies such as the Federal Council on Sustainable Development. The vision must take into account not only energy and support for the exit from nuclear power, but also climate objectives and imperatives. We'll discuss it again on March 15th. I hope to be able to move forward – I understand that my colleagues are willing to go in this direction – in order to develop more operational groups after an exchange on each of the topics we have assigned ourselves, on the points of convergence, the points of opposition, the challenges, the efforts to be made and the strategy to be followed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic593x.u29	Madam Minister, thank you for the explanation. It's a good thing there's been a first meeting. That is a step forward. I have to admit that when I saw the news reports on this subject, I was a little surprised at the composition of the working group or the distribution. You say that Minister Tommelein chose first and that he chose production. There, an effective journey has already been made, in a rapid pace. Then, of course, it is only about the powers of Flanders. The offshore and the nuclear aren't in there. However, I assume that this will be taken into account in the vision when it comes to production. Will that be added in Flanders or will that remain a federal matter? Those working groups are in fact independent of the powers they have. I do not think that is very logical, unless they are going to do all kinds of things about nuclear and offshore. So I look forward to seeing how that will happen and how the process will be followed in order to have a say in it. You'll be back together on March 15th. I hope that clear agreements will then be reached on how to create the basis of support. It is very important that the various stakeholders in the sector, as well as civil society, are involved. The public can also be consulted. And, not to mention, we also need to consider how Parliament can be involved in the whole process, not only in the formatting but also in the follow-up process. We need to be able to meet regularly to assess this and to look at the state of affairs and evolution. Madam Minister, if you still need inspiration, please take with you the resolution we tabled on 15 March. The whole process is worked out in it. You can use this to inspire your colleagues. We look forward to finally achieving the Energy Pact this year.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic593x.u30	Mrs Dierick, I was astonished by the choices made. I did not want to hold back the enthusiasm of my colleagues. I believe that regional flexibility and interconnection are also my responsibility. Each and every one of us has to ask the question for the whole of the territory in the competences that are his own as well as in those of others. It is clear that we will discuss these elements on 15 March. As far as the resolution is concerned, I know it and I will draw inspiration from it. I have heard that you will now hold hearings on the energy pact, on the basis of this resolution. I will follow this file very closely and exchange with you through your subsequent questions regarding the progress of my work with my colleagues. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic593x.u31	Mr President, thank you. Minister, March 15 is the date when we will see the points of convergence and divergence and if everyone has done their duty. I don't know how you work separately. If I understand you correctly, you have to invite all levels of power, otherwise it will be complicated. The methodology of the experts, the stakeholders, has not yet been decided and then it will take a great public consultation, I imagine. Mrs Dierick, I think you're very optimistic. It was planned for 2015 and is postponed until the end of 2017! I am very afraid that the energy pact will be completed by the end of 2019. I hope this will move forward faster than it has been so far.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic593x.u32	Minister, two things. I'm afraid you couldn't. On the one hand, because of the calendar. On the other hand, because of the lack of clarity, from the beginning, on the future of nuclear power after 2025. I will come back, I have another question on this subject. But on the calendar, with what you are announcing, with the backlog already accumulated, I think that even for Mr Calvo's next birthday, you will have nothing to announce. It would be a disaster.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic593x.u33	Madam Minister, I have heard the various replies and I have listened carefully to your answers. Thank you for the clarifications and explanations you have given us. I think a step forward has been taken. This meeting on 30 January finally took place. Some people have been reunited. You talked about experts and consultation. I think this is a decisive step. The involvement of experts is a step in the right direction. On March 15th, it's tomorrow. We look forward to seeing what will come out of it. We want the energy pact to move forward. [[Each one's responsibilities.]] I think by putting everyone around the table, we're moving in a good direction.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic593x.u34	Of course, I can't commit on behalf of everyone. I can commit to myself, maybe, but I'm not alone. In particular, I am dependent on the other three ministers to make certain decisions. That is what I am going to explain to Mr Nollet earlier. But I would be pleased to see that on Mr Calvo's twenty-ninth anniversary, we have moved forward.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic593x.u35	31st anniversary!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic593x.u36	I thought it was 28. I misunderstood: are you already 31 years old? I thought you were still very young. Or are you gonna be 31?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic593x.u37	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic593x.u38	I'll write it down, Mr. President. I'd like that, too. It is by having goals in time that we can move forward. I'll tell my colleagues, be sure. That's a very strong argument.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic593x.u39	If there is no request for a reply from the colleagues who have asked a question on this point, I consider the incident to be closed and I give you an appointment for Mr Calvo's 31st anniversary. Mr Calvo, on the order of business, do you have a proposal for us?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic593x.u40	Mr President, we are now taking note of the next stage in the consultation or start-up of the Energy Pact. I think it is important to agree with the Minister on the place of the hearings throughout the whole process. After all, it makes no sense for them to take place in the air, so that they become a measure for nothing. I am in favour of hearings on the Energy Pact with a strong involvement of the Cabinet, but with a clear place in the path towards the Energy Pact. We must formalise this and establish that it is part of the participatory framework. We must make it very clear that this is happening within the framework of the Energy Pact. We should, if necessary, invite colleagues from the other entities so that we do not hold double hearings. I believe that this should fit in with the path so that we do not ridicule ourselves and waste the time of all stakeholders and ourselves.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic593x.u41	Organization of work. What I would like to say to you is that this committee has discussed the organisation of work for the next few weeks. The principle of hearings in the field of energy has been retained. We are now trying to put all this in an agenda, but I wanted to tell you that next Tuesday, 21 February, there will be no committee on the morning because of Mr Juncker's visit to our institution, but in the afternoon, on the other hand, we will talk again about the organisation of work. So we can discuss it.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic593x.u42	During our somewhat surreal exchange on January 10, you announced that the decision taken by the ONDRAF Board of Directors on December 16, in terms of the response to your November 7 letter, had still not reached you. On January 10, the reply to the letter left on December 16 had not yet arrived. You told us you haven't returned from ONDRAF yet. It had attracted my attention because you have either of the commissioners of the government. Were the government commissioner(s) present at this GC meeting? When did their report reach you? I'm not talking about the answer, I'm talking about their report. What did this report of the Commissioners contain about the position of the Board and the content of the discussions? Have you since received the official response from the AC? What does this answer contain? What will now be the continuation of this file? What is the next step? When and how will Parliament be involved in the debate on the fundamental choice of options in this area? And above all, when and how are you going to involve the Belgian people in the debate on the choice of options for nuclear waste B and C, before the first decision is taken? As a reminder, since the 2008 Eurobarometer, it is known that a large majority of Belgians refuse to consider geological deposition as the most appropriate solution for the long-term management of high-level waste.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic593x.u43	Mr. Chair, Madam Minister, the government's statement points out that there is a need for national policy measures to manage nuclear waste in categories B and C. As Mr.Nollet said, we need a participatory process and compensation. Of course, this is a sensitive issue. While it is difficult to reach agreement at the government level, it is nevertheless important to move forward on the issue. Madam Minister, I would like to know what progress has been made in the long-term management of Category B and C waste? What decisions have been taken at this stage? Have you submitted any proposals to the Council of Ministers?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic593x.u44	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I begin by replying to Mr Nollet by giving him the most recent update of this dossier. First of all, I will refer to the multiple oral or written questions of December 2016 and January 2017 on this subject to which I refer you for further information, including your oral questions Nos. 13911 and 15640 and written No. 389. I come back to the heart of the case and indicate what you already know, what I have already described on several occasions. In the letter of 7 November 2016, which we sent to ONDRAF, my colleague Kris Peeters and myself, it was requested, firstly, to carry out a proposal for a national policy for waste B and C whose scope is limited to the principle of geological storage and, secondly, to propose an adequate phase of the various stages of decision-making with the aim of creating a sufficient societal foundation. The government commissioners were present at the December 16, 2016 meeting of the ONDRAF Board of Directors. Of course, they told me about the important elements, namely, that the content of the proposal that ONDRAF submitted to its board of directors was broadly in line with our request and that the board of directors wanted ONDRAF to request further clarification from the board of directors in relation to our letter of 7 November 2016. I still do not have, to date, the official and precise return of ONDRAF or the draft minutes of the board meeting on this subject. I note, however, that my teams and those of Minister Peeters are in constructive interaction with ONDRAF. With respect to the next steps, as soon as this response is available, Minister Peeters and I will take the time of the analysis to consider the next steps. With regard to the work schedule, the Government's agreement provides for a decision on the national waste policy B and C in this Parliament. As you know, such a decision relates to a period exceeding the term of this legislature, engages the country for years or even decades, and is therefore not taken lightly. The law provides for a national policy to be proposed by ONDRAF and instituted by royal decree deliberated in the Council of Ministers, after advice from AFCN. These are the three stages provided for by the law. I would also remind you that national policies are considered to be plans or programmes within the meaning of the Act of 13 February 2006 on the assessment of the impact of certain plans and programmes on the environment and on public participation in the preparation of environmental plans and programmes, in accordance with the SEA Act. The SEA Committee will therefore be asked whether or not the proposal for a national policy should be subject to public evaluation or public participation at this stage, provided that the process provides for several phases. It is precisely within this legal framework that the ONDRAF has already conducted very wide consultations between 2009 and 2011 in the context of the preparation of its waste plan B and C. The latter has received numerous opinions and observations from the legal bodies and also from the public. At the initiative of ONDRAF, further consultations were also held, namely, dialogues and an interdisciplinary conference aimed at specialists and experts, and a citizens' conference, led by the King Baudouin Foundation, bringing together a panel of 32 citizens. This led to the ONDRAF Waste Plan in 2011. All documents relating to this plan and its evaluation are available on the ONDRAF website. I also refer you to the statement that was made during this important work, as well as to the report of the citizens' consultation. They give a position, concerning the opinion of Belgian citizens, which is much more nuanced than that of the Eurobarometer 2008 which you refer to.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic593x.u45	Madam Minister, first of all, I would like to recall what I was also saying and what I fully agree with: it is an extremely important decision that commits us to 240,000 years. It is obvious that it should not be taken lightly. Yes. Radioactive waste has a half-life of 240,000 years. Further reason for the fact that, on public consultation, we are not limited to the 32 people who were consulted in the framework...
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic593x.u46	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic593x.u47	I read the report of the King Baudouin Foundation. Did you read it, too?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic593x.u48	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic593x.u49	And I met with the sociologist who prepared the report. It's worth seeing how things happened. This is quite different from a pulse of the population on such a fundamental subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic593x.u50	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic593x.u51	Exactly! And you're right about that part. But between the consultation, which did not take place, and the important work of the King Baudouin Foundation, there is the Eurobarometer survey. In this regard, the vast majority is opposed to this. As for standard consultation, whether it should be organised in relation to the project itself or in relation to the first decision you will have to take, I consider that, since it is a decision at this structuring point, you have no choice: you must already consult and have an impact assessment carried out at the time of the first decision. I would say even before the first decision, since that is the principle: the impact assessment and public consultation take place before the decision is taken.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic593x.u52	As I said, this is the proposal for a national policy. We're going to ask the SEA committee if this proposal – obviously, we're still in the first stage...
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic593x.u53	So it's before the decision on the first stage?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic593x.u54	Yes, whether or not the proposal should be subject to public evaluation and participation in this phase, which is a pre-stage.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic593x.u55	This element seems to me to be important in addition to what has been done in the past. It is February 14 and you have still not received a formal response following the meeting of the Board of Directors on September 16. It's still particularly challenging. To believe that the minutes of the Board's report are still being negotiated in the contacts that Mr. Peeters may have, and which you think are positive, with your firm. There was a meeting. A decision was taken at the meeting on 16 December. There is no reason to negotiate again after the content of what was said at this meeting. This seems to me to be, to say the least, special.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic593x.u56	You're the one who says "negotiator." Government Commissioners attend meetings and do not take part in the vote. They're here to report, what they did. Those who took part in the vote, if any,...
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic593x.u57	Have there been any or not?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic593x.u58	I don't know!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic593x.u59	You have the commissioners' report!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic593x.u60	I don't have it here! I have given you the content: it is the content of the ONDRAF proposal submitted to the board of directors, which was broadly in line with what was requested, and the board of directors which wants ONDRAF to ask for further clarification from the board of directors in relation to the letter of 7 November.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic593x.u61	That's the decision!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic593x.u62	They must write it to us! I'm not going to be content with "they say" reported, even by commissioners of government I trust. The Board of Directors is an official body which must issue an official document in order to have its supervisory authority react. That's it!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic593x.u63	I am not criticizing you on this point. I'm allowing myself to criticize the ONDRAF. It does not seem logical to me that for decisions which seem clear, namely those which your Commissioner has reported to you, there are not yet any minutes and a reply to your letter of 7 November. The letter dated 7 November, the meeting took place on 16 December. The Commissioners know what has been said and the ONDRAF response is still not happening!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic593x.u64	I have no time to force them!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic593x.u65	I know, I'm not criticizing you! I know they'll read our work.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic593x.u66	Mr Nollet, you are in your reply, but you are not at the café du Commerce either!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic593x.u67	Mr. President, it doesn't seem to me to be at the café du Commerce when we talk about the fact that...
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic593x.u68	It's becoming a conversation!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic593x.u69	I conclude my sentence by saying that there is no question of trade coffee, when one finds that an institute that is to respond to the government on a decision that commits the country for 240,000 years and that concerns level B and C nuclear waste has not yet done so, when the meeting of the board of directors took place on December 16 and it is February 14!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic593x.u70	Mr Nollet, you are right! I am not referring to the content of your remarks. Just finish the line.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic593x.u71	It's done, Mr. President!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic593x.u72	We now turn to Ms. Lalieux's reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic593x.u73	Minister, I take note of your response and of the round-trip between the board of directors and the two offices. It is important to move forward on this issue and, as Mr. Nollet suggested, to consult with the public on this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic593x.u74	Minister, at the February 7th Economic Committee, the CREG presented its recent study on the offshore wind support system. This study shows that there is scope for a downward review of the support mechanism for the last three federal concessions. In particular, CREG estimates that economies of scale could bring about 900 million euros to Belgian consumers. The CREG also insists that a government decision to reform support for future offshore parks be taken in the coming months. Minister, the CREG sent you a letter on 12 July 2016 concerning the latest developments in the market and the decisions of Norther and Rentel. Then, at the end of September, CREG completed the first part of its study. What follow-up have you provided to this information from CREG? Was it not possible to review the level of support for Norther and Rentel at that time? When will you propose to set the level for the next offshore parks? What are your plans to achieve savings for consumers?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic593x.u75	Minister, offshore wind is certainly a key element in the necessary energy transition and the fight against global warming. That said, it is also important to ensure that support for this important sector is not on the back of consumers, whose bills are already largely affected by a series of regional taxes linked to sometimes risky support for certain forms of renewable energy. It is with this in mind that you, more than a year ago, wanted to take action to reduce the subsidies of the marine wind to avoid oversubsidization of the sector. In particular, it will be recalled that on July 14, 2016, our House passed your bill to that effect. A decision, supported beyond the majority, which had then made it possible to lighten consumers' bills by EUR 1.1 billion, which, you will agree, is far from negligible. In order to continue this approach on the basis of objective findings, in particular in the light of the situation prevailing in our Dutch neighbours, you requested, as early as July 2016, a confidential report to the CREG on the subject. The CREG, which had the opportunity to present this report on February 7th in the Committee on Economy, demonstrates in particular that there are a number of options for a downward review of the support mechanism for the last three federal concessions in the North Sea. These economies of scale would seem to make it possible to lighten the Belgian consumers' bill a little further for an amount of around 900 million euros. Minister, what are the main lessons that you have learned from the last report of the CREG? What action do you intend to take on its main recommendations?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic593x.u76	Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to point out that last June the subsidy cost for Norther and Rentel had already been reduced by EUR 1.1 billion compared to the scheme which entered into force on 4 April 2014. In accordance with the decision of the Council of Ministers of 9 June 2016, an amended offshore support scheme was presented on 29 June 2016 and approved. This support has been negotiated in two phases - you will remember, because we have discussed it at length - on the basis of a study by the CREG prior to the decision of the Council of Ministers, of course, since the CREG must give us support as to the possible support to the parks, which at the time had to do their closing and wanted to know what the level of aid would be. It gave us a basis that allowed us to negotiate a level of subsidy that was lower than what she had advocated as a good one. Thanks to the work of CREG, we have earned 400 million euros. We were all surprised by the result of the Tender in the Netherlands, based on an emulating public market logic, which provided very low support prices for future parks in Borssele 1 and 2. Seeing this, immediately after the decision of the Council of Ministers in June 2016, I ordered a new study from CREG. By letter of 12 July, the Commission informed us of its first results in this regard. At that time, she was not yet in a position to give us the parameters of this surprising decrease: why was the level of support much lower than what is practised in Belgium? So I asked him to re-examine the problem. So she produced a new study, which was given to me in September. This document did not allow me to renegotiate with Norther and Rentel, who were finalizing their closing. Moreover, this would have led to immediate legal uncertainty. Moreover, it has brought happiness to some. As Mr Nollet pointed out in one of his questions on the energy pact, a company manager working in offshore wind and participating in one of the two consortia I have just mentioned, answered the very insightful questions of a journalist from Le Soir. He explained that in Belgium there is broad support in terms of consumer support, a price of 124 euros/MWh for Norther wind turbines in which there is a consortium of companies investing in partnership with Nethys Liegeois and Mitsubishi Japanese. You'll understand my answer. We can see right away that the journalist goes on to say: "But finally, in the Netherlands, you, the same entrepreneur, just got a market for offshore wind turbines at a guaranteed price of 54 euros/MWh." And the journalist wonders if the support was not too generous in Belgium. This is for the article dated January 14. Now I'm going back to our Norther and Rentel parks. I would add that, in addition to the issues of legal uncertainty, what has been done has been done, especially since the European Commission had indicated that the level of aid was in line with its guidelines and did not, in its view, lead to overcompensation, which was finally confirmed in the official and favourable decision of the said European Commission of 8 December 2016. Nevertheless, the European Commission now insists - and you will see that this is of fundamental importance for the future - on the need to introduce elements of competition in these cases and to be able to take advantage of the scale effects. With a view to the negotiation which the Belgian Government must begin with the last three state concessions which will be set up in the North Sea so that, moreover, we can fulfil our obligations regarding the percentage of renewable energy in the gross final consumption of the inhabitants of this country by 2020, the CREG has carried out a more in-depth study in which, on the basis of additional information, it was able to compare the Dutch system as if it were installed in Belgium. With regard to Borssele 3 and 4, CREG took as its basis the latest figures provided by Northwester 2. It combined these figures with an estimate of the future evolution of certain parameters, which gave very surprising price ranges. I'll deliver them to you. The range ranges from €78.42 to €80.45 per megawatt/hour, taking into account the scale effect. The committee states that it is possible for parks to work closely together and proposes a second, even lower, range ranging from 62.14 to 64.14 euros per megawatt/hour. I will take this into account in the next negotiation with the three parks. And I see already - I am drawing information from the newspaper mentioned earlier by Mr Nollet - that, even if the same entrepreneurs, in the Dutch context, have levels of support that are much lower than ours (as I mentioned, of 54 euros per megawatt/hour, so still below what the CREG predicts), they invoke a lot of differences that would justify this differential amount. They say: "You know, we started our investments a long time ago, the technology was less mature. In Holland, it is a technology that is much more mature and these parks will settle by 2022/2023, while, we, we have to settle here in 2018/2019." And to plead for a review of their situation in Belgium, on a case-by-case basis. So you see that all this is going to be extremely complex again. But you will agree with me that it is not because we have to meet our renewable obligations - we will not derogate from them - that we must also make the consumer's bill increase in a senseless way. I remember what you said when we talked about the two previous Norther and Rentel parks, Mrs Lalieux, and I assume that you support me, in relation to the CREG, that the levels of support included in the new CREG assessment in relation to what is happening in Holland are the basis of the new negotiations that will allow us to reach the conclusion of the last three offshore parks, in the North Sea, in Belgium.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic593x.u77	Madam Minister, it is true that the CREG has come to give us, for three hours, explanations of its study, which is indeed well done. They did so in a very pedagogic way. They told us that, even if there were differences, they could be overturned by technological developments for the next three parks. I have always said that I support renewables, offshore wind, but I will not support the fact that people are getting rich on the backs of all consumers. This is not acceptable when a totally objective study such as that carried out by CREG is available. This question was asked when CREG came to present its study. Perhaps the government could have acted more quickly, when the first part of the CREG study was given to it in September, and reviewed the rules of support for Norther and Rentel, even if you mentioned legal certainty.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic593x.u78	Thank you, Minister, for the completeness of your answer. We have the same vision of things. Yes, we need green energy and an energy mix, but neither should the consumer be the one who pays too much. The CREG report contains a certain vision and allows us to find some solutions, and I think we are therefore moving in the right direction.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic593x.u79	Madam Minister, Thursday 9, so last Thursday, a major breakdown hit the municipalities of Schaerbeek, Saint-Josse, Brussels, Evere and Woluwe-Saint-Lambert around 10:40 p.m., affecting about 10% of Brussels' territory. Sibelga immediately reacted by trying to see what the breakdown was due to. It is not Sibelga who is responsible since it is Elia, who has had problems in a number of high voltage cabins. I would like to know the origin of this breakdown and the measures taken to prevent these events in the future. Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic593x.u80	Many Brussels citizens were plunged into the dark on Thursday evening at around 10:40 p.m. The craziest theses have been circulating on the causes of this breakdown. Professor Ernst wondered, on social media, about rumours that the blackout had been caused by a cyber attack. Various foreign media outlets, such as the Daily Mirror, have taken less precautions to announce a terrorist attack.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic593x.u81	What exactly is the situation? Technicians dispatched to the site appeared to have discovered that an explosion caused a large-scale breakdown and damaged the facilities. But what is the cause of this explosion? What is the "source reason" that triggered the phenomenon? Can we already rule out any hypothesis of cyberattack or are investigations still under way?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic593x.u82	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I want to say that there is no indication of a terrorist attack or cyberattack. That was said – I think – quite quickly by Elia. As you have indicated, the origin of the failure is an explosion on a coupling of sets of bars in the high voltage station of Schaerbeek. This explosion caused damage causing the loss of two redundant elements. Of course, if there's no redundancy, there's nothing left. This substation, which feeds several high voltage stations in Brussels, has had a direct impact on the inhabitants of the cities of Brussels, Evere, Saint-Josse, Schaerbeek, and to a lesser extent, in the centre of Brussels. Elia's technical teams immediately went to the scene. They found that the incident had caused a lot of damage. In compliance with the safety instructions, the Elias teams ensured that after a few hours the complete power supply and a power supply to the affected areas were re-insured the following day, i.e. on 10 February at 1 a.m., within a period of 2 hours and 30 minutes. The cause of the incident is still under analysis and will take some time. The measures to be taken will, of course, depend on the exact identification of the cause of the accident. We can come back to that later.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic593x.u83	Mr President, Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. It is indeed important to know the causes of this incident so that it does not happen again. That said, even though people have been a little surprised, a 2-hour 30-minute period of time seems to me to be a relatively quick time to manage information. However, good information must also be provided on social networks in order to avoid any reference to terrorism, cyberattack, etc. In doing so, perhaps Elia should communicate through clear sources as soon as she is in possession of plausible and possible information. Indeed, it is important not to panic the population.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic593x.u84	For root causes, work is under way to clarify events. Could we agree on a modality, which we use regularly, namely that your collaborator will send us the information, once it exists, in such a way that we do not ask questions, when we know that clarification is under way? We rule out the most fanciful theses, either, but what is the origin of the event, to prevent it from happening again?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic593x.u85	In these cases, Elia always sends a technical report that includes the cause of the event. For Tournai recently, we received a technical report after a week, which told us that there was a snoop. But it took a week to find the snoop. In that case, it will last a little longer...
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic593x.u86	Madam Minister, it was not later than 15 February that the Commission of the European Union had to have decided in the case before you whether the three extended plants had received state aid. What about each of the power stations affected by the European Union decision, that is, Doel 1, Doel 2 and Tihange 1?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic593x.u87	Mr Nollet, when I answered one of your questions on the same subject earlier, I said: "around February 15". We do not use a deadline and there was no official information from the European Union, saying, as usual, "it will be such a day". It will come in the coming days. Their files are really being finalized. The 15th of February is tomorrow, that's for sure. I guess they'll need a few more days. As soon as I have the answer, count on me to make it known spontaneously!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic593x.u88	I repeat exactly what you said in committee. The calculation was made on 10 January. They said that they had filed it on such a date and that they had such a deadline. You said, "We would have an answer by the 15th of February at the latest." It's beautiful!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic593x.u89	"We'd be around at the latest!" I agree. It was so you wouldn't worry. But you will still agree with me that I do not have an imperium on the agenda of the European Commission. No one has any! It operates independently. If the answer comes in a few days, you will have to correct my "at the latest". Next time, I won't put that in my answers. I'll say, "We'll have a commission around the 15th." I'll be even more careful.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic593x.u90	Madam Chair, I did not have a reply to make with respect to the Minister's previous answer. Minister, in her January 18 edition, L'Echo said: "The cost of nuclear waste is impossible to quantify". The article stated that the official opinion of the Commission des réservations nucléaires (CPN) highlighted the enormous uncertainties regarding the amounts to be set up. Do you confirm that this indication is in the notice in question? Do you also confirm that the CPN has decided, in a rather incomprehensible manner, to retain only the "lower limit" of the estimate of the cost of geological storage? Do you then confirm that the estimate is based on the reprocessing of part of the spent fuel, although it is well known that such a scenario cannot be considered credible in the near future? Do you confirm that in this regard, the CPN has pointed out that such a scheme can no longer serve as a work programme if it does not quickly turn into an industrial scenario and that the CPN has asked Synatom to undertake "in the short term" the necessary steps to obtain authorization for the reprocessing of some of the irradiated fuels currently stored at the Doel and Tihange sites? Do you also confirm that the Commission is requesting "as soon as possible" the drafting of a scenario which takes over the concept of a storage facility and that it directs Synatom to request a prelicensing of this concept from AFCN? Do you also confirm that the extension of Tihange 1 as well as Doel 1 and 2 shortens the decommissioning schedule? How is this explained? Do you therefore confirm that this extension will entail additional costs associated with dismantling? If so, how high can these additional costs be estimated? Beyond these confirmations, what are the recommendations, conclusions and other elements to be taken from the position taken by the NPC? More transparency in Parliament would not be wrong in this area. Furthermore, do you confirm that while in 2013 the Commission already requested that the concept of geological evacuation at 200 or 220 metres in Boom clay be checked for its opportunity as a reference for the basis for calculating costs, this evaluation has not yet been carried out in 2016?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic593x.u91	I follow with my second set of questions. In Volume 2 of the comparative study of Belgian nuclear fuel management strategies, on page 19, you corrected the sentence which said that "Every three years, ONDRAF re-evaluates the future cost of the deposit". Could you tell us what motivated this change? What is the legal basis for periodicity of this assessment? When was the last evaluation? Could you give us a copy and tell us how many hundreds of millions of euros it envisages the cost of this future deposit? When is the next assessment planned?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic593x.u92	Mr President, honourable Member, it is clear that such a complex project, to be carried out in the distant future, is not easy to quantify precisely. You'll agree. Article 18 of the Act of 11 April 2003 provides that provisions must be adequate but cannot exceed the cost of dismantling and managing irradiated fissile material. There are two things that should not be confused: on the one hand, the estimation of the cost of geological storage and, on the other, the estimation of the costs of irradiated fuel management. We agree. For this estimate of the cost of geological storage, the Commission for Nuclear Supplies has used the only available baseline scenario: the scenario used for the calculation of ONDRAF tariffs up to 2018. As regards the estimation of the costs of spent fuel management, two reference scenarios were put forward by the provisioning company Synatom: a conditioning scenario for the storage of all spent fuel; and a mixed scenario in which part of the fuel would be reprocessed. The mixed scenario was used for the calculation of provisions because it is a higher envelope cost which therefore covers the scenarios presented by Synatom. The highest, which is reassuring, has been chosen for estimating the costs of irradiated fuel management.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic593x.u93	On the fuel cost side, you take the highest. My question was about the other one.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic593x.u94	There's only one scenario. The evaluation runs until 2018, because the calculations, as you know, are reviewed regularly (normally every three years). And, I will come to that later, you know well that the Nuclear Supplies Commission has stated that if there is a significant change in the discount rate, it will take different changes from the discount rate before the deadline expires. So here we are quite comfortable. And in the case of geological storage, there is only one scenario, on which the calculations were made. In 2016, the Commission on Nuclear Supplies expressed the wish to move from baseline scenarios to industrial scenarios, both for ONDRAF and for Synatom. The Commission recalled that Synatom should consider whether or not to implement a possible reprocessing decision it would take. It is in this desire to industrialize the scenarios presented to it that we must understand the Commission's request to translate the design of the storage buildings into a pre-licensing by AFCN. As you know, the timetable for the end of the operation of nuclear power plants has been changed, resulting in a change in the decommissioning schedule. Several reactors will be dismantled at the same time. According to Electrabel, this would reduce the total duration of this dismantling. In financial terms, some costs are increasing, because several activities will have to be carried out in parallel. Other costs will decrease due to a scale effect. The Nuclear Supplies Commission will make its annual report to me and I will make it available to Parliament; 2016 will therefore be no exception It is correct that the assessment of the 200- or 220-metre geological evacuation concept in Boom clay is not dated from yesterday. In 2015, the ONDRAF forwarded a proposal for a national policy for the long-term management of waste B and C to the Ministers with Energy and Economy in their responsibilities. Following an analysis of this issue, the Ministers requested, in 2016, that an amended proposal for a national policy for the long-term management of waste B and C be forwarded to them. You know what conditions I'm still waiting for ONDRAF's board of directors to return, I won't come back to that. You know that the Commission on Nuclear Supplies, which has given itself the opportunity to review nuclear supplies if new major elements are brought to its notice, will re-evaluate nuclear supplies in compliance with the 2003 law in 2018. With regard to your second question, the answer is that there is no legal basis that would require ONDRAF to re-evaluate the cost estimate of its baseline scenario according to a specified schedule or periodicity. ONDRAF re-evaluates this estimate based on the progress of its R & D studies and its agreements with producers. My administration found the phrase mentioned in your question unclear and amended it. This change was clearly indicated in an erratum.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic593x.u95	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic593x.u96	No, that's it. Given the project, my administration found that there was a lack of clarity and we modified it. It's the erratum. It should be noted that Article 16 of the Royal Decree of 30 March 1981 provides that the calculation of charges to cover the cost of storing and storing waste shall be revised at least every five years. This calculation is based on the reference scenario determined by ONDRAF. The last assessment of the ONDRAF baseline was made in December 2013. It is described in ONDRAF with the reference NIROND-TR 2013-04 E entitled "Cost evaluation of geological disposal of category B&C was for the long term fund". I invite the honourable Member to speak directly to ONDRAF to consult this technical report. In this report, you will see that ONDRAF estimates the cost of joint geological repository B and C, including contingency margin, at €3,200 million in value 2013. The ONDRAF is currently working on an update of the reference design of the geological repository and on an assessment of the cost of a new baseline scenario based on this new design, in accordance with the conventions adopted under the current law.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic593x.u97	Minister, starting from the last point, the last figure is from December 2013. It takes one every five years, so it is expected that there will be one by December 2018. In this context, ONDRAF will have specified its model and the figure will certainly have increased. But the question is also related to depth. For the time being, ONDRAF has identified two scenarios for waste management, but only one scenario is used for landfilling. I consider that taking the lowest-cost scenario, which is not guaranteed at all, since it is 200 metres away and no one operates at 200 metres deep and the others are 500 metres deep, is to take a financial risk when we reach a deadline, namely the end of nuclear power, i.e. the end of the ability to report on consumers' bills and ENGIE Electrabel's ability to finance, as appropriate, the nuclear supply fund which will have to serve the day when we have defined no longer a project, but the real waste location project. I am therefore critical of the method. It doesn't matter what the numbers are. I understand that there is a $3.2 billion issue, which will be subject to evaluation in December 2018. I am critical of the method as we work with the lowest cost when there are several options and we could opt not for the most expensive option, but for the one that lies between the two. From a financial point of view, Belgium takes a huge risk by not supplying enough. The CPN has just reviewed the discount rate. You talked about it. You probably remember the study carried out by ecologists. This has led to a review of the so-called lower rate. There are 1.8 billion or 1.9 billion. I don't remember the exact amount anymore, but it's in that order.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic593x.u98	Neither do I.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic593x.u99	If we take assumptions other than the current one (boom clay at 200 metres depth for the landfill project), the cost difference will be even greater than 1.8 or 1.9 billion. Why? Because the cost varies roughly with the square of the depth. The risk is that in 2025, we are unable to postpone this cost. Why? The 2011 round tables, initiated by Mr. Wathelet, had already highlighted this. Because the legal framework for the financing of dismantling is not at present sufficient to refer to the parent company. I invite you to continue working – I know that groups should have already completed their work, but this is not the case – so that the legal framework can be consolidated, so that it can be financed by those who have benefited for years from the benefits of nuclear power production. In my view, there is a real problem in the fact that for storage - not for management - only the minimum cost is taken into account. I hear, Madam Minister, what you are saying about the CNP's report, transparency, but to my knowledge, it already exists because the press has mentioned it. So I guess we'll get it. You're talking about transparency, but the press has made a synthesis of it. In fact, I asked my question on the basis of the synthesis that the press has made of it. I have the article from L'Echo. This report, in your opinion, dates back to 2016 and I therefore do not understand why it is not yet made public. It may be a mistake on my part but I read in your answer that it was not yet!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic593x.u100	(...) each year the previous year's report to Parliament, as required by law.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic593x.u101	I think we are not talking about the same report. I see what you're referring to. We had a discussion about that. There was a delay in the first two years, there is no longer one this year. But we're not talking about the same report.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic593x.u102	The question is whether this annual report is already closed. I'll ask the question. This may take a little time for formal issues. As soon as I have it, I'll make it available. That makes sense to me. And as I say very well, 2016 will be no exception in this regard.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic593x.u103	It is already public since you pass on the main elements to me. I don't have everything, you only give me the encryption.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic593x.u104	I don't know if it's already public, I'll give you the main elements.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic593x.u105	It already exists, I said it was already adopted. I didn't say it was public. Since I'm trying to find out if...
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic593x.u106	I'll check it out.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic593x.u107	Minister, in an interview with the newspaper Le Soir on January 14, you again caused trouble as to whether or not you wanted to extend the nuclear power plants after 2025. I'm talking about your will as Minister of Energy, not that of the government. I quote the summary of the journalists who asked you: "For the moment, it's still pretty blurry. Maybe new gas-fired power plants. Maybe a new nuclear power plant. Minister Marghem does not rule out anything." Do you confirm this information? Do you confirm that, for you, the construction of a new nuclear power plant or the extension of existing power plants beyond 2025 remains a valid option? Actors are fully aware that you do not decide alone, but they need to know what their federal energy minister thinks. This request seems perfectly legitimate to me. Once and for all, can you exclude this option? Or are you going to leave us in the dark as the journalists who attended your conference reported in their respective publications?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic593x.u108	Mr Nollet, there were two journalists, but it was not "their respective newspapers", since they worked for only one, namely Le Soir. The two interested, called Xavier Counselasse and Bernard Demonty, asked me about a series of topics. The interview was recorded. So, we can find the exact sentences. I remember being asked about the energy pact and the energy mix of the future. I did not check the accuracy of the synthesis you mentioned in your question. On the other hand, I can say that since one of the two journalists was particularly interested - and for a long time - in nuclear power, whenever he asked me about it, I was trying to make a bit of humor with him by saying: "We know that you are not interested in nuclear power. We are not here to talk only about this theme. Probably we need to talk about something else." So, what I was getting out of the door, he was bringing him back out the window. I then added: "The energy mix of the future is not my decision. This decision will be taken by the three Regions and the federal government." It was a way of kicking. I said, but I don't know if this has been transcribed, that the government - and I repeat it - provided in its agreement that the exit of nuclear power would take place as provided for in the 2003 law, namely in 2025, and that the construction of a nuclear power plant - because it was the subject of the journalist's question - was much more hypothetical and was not included in the government agreement. I can't say better. It's a way of answering him and kicking him by saying: "I would like to hear about the construction of a new nuclear power plant, since that was your question, but anyway, the energy mix of the future is the energy pact, and it is the decision of the Regions and the federal government. But the federal government's agreement provides that nuclear power will be released in 2025." That's what I said.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic593x.u109	You keep the blur, maybe unintentionally, but it's always that you do it.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic593x.u110	No, I made it clear. He likes to maintain blur, otherwise his article has no salt.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic593x.u111	We're with each other. There's not a lot of people left.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic593x.u112	However, we are registered. Everything said is recorded.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic593x.u113	I hope so! Everything you said earlier, you're not going to be able to deny it.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic593x.u114	Please note, Mr. Nollet, that we cannot be left alone, especially on Valentine's Day. You never know.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic593x.u115	I'll have to leave in a few minutes, but I'll talk to you later.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic593x.u116	I'd like to have your point of view. I heard and read the government policy statement, thank you. But do you, let this option be opened for after 2025, if it was up to you?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic593x.u117	Mr Nollet, I have no choice. I'm a function, I'm not just a person. In the context of parliamentary responses, it is the function that responds to you. And the function clearly tells you that I am linked to a government agreement that I have accepted, that I support and that I defend. That's all.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic593x.u118	So the position of the federal government, expressed in the agreement of the government, which you recall here, and to which you cling as a "minister" institution, will be the one that you will defend from the point of view of the pact. If I look at the ministers around the table, things are clear, so why keep the fuzzy?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic593x.u119	I repeat, I do not maintain the blur. I believe that the journalist wanted to highlight his article a little and that my more comprehensive answer, which he synthesized as he heard, does not reflect what I said, which was duly recorded. You can, with my permission, get that answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic593x.u120	Mr. Nollet, may I close the incident?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic593x.u121	Mr President, Madam Minister, I regret that we continue to turn around the pot. I'll go listen to the tapes.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic593x.u122	Mr Nollet, I shall take it that the incident is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic593x.u123	With regard to the order of business, I would like to put the following question to you. While chairing this committee, I was supposed to speak at 2.30 p.m. in the Committee on Social Affairs, also on the order of business, because I am concerned with a matter which requires hearings. The meeting was therefore scheduled to begin at 2.30 p.m., at which time several colleagues were still present and could have chaired in my place. This is no longer the case. This commission was postponed at 4:15 p.m. for some reason. I'm called to go there. The trouble is that there is only Mr Nollet - who still has five questions - and the minister. Mr Nollet, may I ask you to be a self-president with discipline for the time I go to Social Affairs? I promised you a face-to-face.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic593x.u124	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic593x.u125	There's no problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic593x.u126	Madam Minister, it is through the parliamentary work of the nuclear safety sub-committee of 15 December 2016 that, like us, you have surreptitiously learned the withdrawal of approval of Electrabel by ONDRAF for the treatment, packaging and disposal of radioactive waste dating back to 2016. At the end of December, you asked ONDRAF for a detailed report on this file. Can you, as you promised, give us a copy of this report and present the main elements of it to us? Can you tell us if and when ONDRAF regained its approval? Have any conditions been laid down in this respect? When will the next check take place?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic593x.u127	Mr President, as regards the description of the event, I refer you to my answers to the oral parliamentary questions No 15644, No 15691 and No 15709 given in the Committee on the Economy of 10 January 2017 and to the answer of 27 January 2017 to the written question No 402 by MP Wollants, available in the Questions and Written Answers Bulletin No 0103. To my knowledge, there is no evolution to date in relation to this last answer. With regard to the report I requested, ONDRAF informed me that the report was being drafted and that it would be submitted to its Board of Directors on 24 March 2017.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic593x.u128	Madam Minister, I have not seen the answer to Mr Wollants, but if I understand correctly, the ONDRAF has not yet regained its approval.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic593x.u129	No, it's not ONDRAF!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic593x.u130	The ONDRAF did not give approval to Electrabel again! Is that right? Is that what you answered Mr. Wollants?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic593x.u131	We'll check it out.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic593x.u132	This is written question 402.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic593x.u133	We'll check it out right now.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic593x.u134	I note that the report is scheduled for 24 March. As usual, could we receive it through your co-worker or should I ask a question after that date?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic593x.u135	No! We can do that. If I forget you, I know you'll remind me. So there's no problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic593x.u136	We therefore await your response to Mr. Wollants.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic593x.u137	Minister, during our discussion on the subject on January 10, you failed to answer certain questions. I would therefore like to go back to it. As you know, the international experts who participated in the peer review of the comparative study of nuclear fuel management strategies have sent you a letter asking you, among other things, for the following: First, submit the study to Parliament for evaluation. On this point you have agreed, it is now up to the President to include this in our agenda. I turn to the secretary so that we can remind the president after the sitting. Next Tuesday, when we discuss the order of business, we will be able to discuss it again. Secondly, and this concerns you, the Minister, entrusting the National Programme Committee with the task of extending the consultation on options for the nuclear fuel cycle in Belgium. Thirdly, to organize dialogue with civil society in this regard and in collaboration with an independent organization. Experts said that an interdisciplinary conference with the participation of civil society and a public forum with the participation of a representative selection of citizens could provide a basis for this participatory process. Experts suggested that the King Baudouin Foundation should be asked to do so. I would like to know what specific follow-up you have given to each of these last two requests, the first being for the President. On January 10, you said that you still had to ask your collaborators the question. It can be assumed that it has been done since then.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic593x.u138	Mr Nollet, as I indicated in my answer to your question No 15657 on 10 January, the priority was the publication of this study and its erratum for all on the website of my administration, which was done, as you know, one of your questions bears witness to this. As I have indicated to you, this study can serve as a reference and a solid basis for any future decision-making process on the management of the nuclear fuel of Belgian power reactors. In this sense, it is a very useful document setting out possible new scenarios alongside the existing reprocessing scenarios or direct evacuation scenarios. That is why I wanted this study to be maintained and adapted to evolution. However, for the time being, my priority is to pursue the points set out in the government agreement and, in particular, the decision on a national waste policy B and C. The issue of extending the new scenarios for spent fuel management is therefore not on the agenda at this time. I will, of course, try to remain consistent with these studies, if the question arises at some point, but that is not part of the government agreement. As the study is available, it is open to Parliament to consider this issue. I would be interested to know the results of your work in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic593x.u139	Thank you, Madam Minister. You say the priority is B and C, the choice of storage, and we'll do that, eventually, after that. That's not the priority right now. However, your choice of spent fuel management will impact the requirements for storage B and C. Depending on whether or not there is a dismantling, we are increasing from 600 to more than 3,000 m3. So, obviously, there's a huge difference. Depending on your choice of spent fuel management strategy, there is an impact on the volume of the project. That's inconsistent with what you're saying. You say that we will first choose the storage location and the storage project B and C, and then we will see if there is any time left in this government – which believes that this is not the priority, you say, but first the other – what it will be about the management of spent fuel. However, this question, for me, is a prerequisite since it determines the volume required for storage. I do not understand your answer to this hierarchy. I think you're doing things backwards in relation to that. Would you like to react?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic593x.u140	No, because technically, I'm not quite equipped to react to this aspect. I would simply say that, as you will recall, our primary concern is first of all to have a decision in principle. So everything about depth, volume and things like these is a subsidiary question. I understand that you can see an inconsistency by saying to yourself: "How can one decide on a principle of geological burial, without knowing at what depth or volume?" Intellectually – that's all I can answer right now and I'd like to test your question more thoroughly with my collaborator, in my firm, who can answer your question finer – I believe that the principle itself can be debated without knowing what decision to make on depth or volume. And it has always been said that we will proceed step by step, without taking a decision lightly. Because, even if the depth is different or the volume is different, what counts first is the societal appropriation of the principle. That is the first question to ask. I think it's important to know that. The concepts of waste B and C and spent fuel should be avoided. I repeat. The oil-spent study does not call into question the two scenarios opened today for the management of spent fuel (reprocessing or direct evacuation) but it opens up other scenarios, which include, for example, advanced systems such as MYRRHA. It should be noted that creating these other scenarios does not call into question the need for geological storage for waste B and C. That is why I say that intellectually and even concretely, there can be no direct link.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic593x.u141	Minister, I propose to come back to the matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic593x.u142	Yes, I think it really deserves a preliminary intellectual discussion, and a built-up exchange, to determine our step-by-step progress on this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic593x.u143	I will repeat a question; I will read carefully the answer that you have transmitted for the time being. I'm not going to push you to provide other answers, otherwise we're going to improvise, when that would be better than that.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic593x.u144	What I have told you so far is quite correct. For the rest, I added that a debate in Parliament could be interesting. But this is not part of the government's agreement. So, if the majority is not determined to start this kind of debate, you'll have to do and say, we won't be able to have it.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic593x.u145	We can have a debate, but we can not have conclusions if the majority does not reach conclusions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic593x.u146	We can always have a debate, if possible in the order of business, with everything we have to do.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic593x.u147	We'll see about this next Tuesday. I just wanted to add one more element, to which I will return later. The choice you make about spent fuel management not only has an impact on the volume, of which I have spoken a lot, but also on the type of basement that should accommodate it. Indeed, depending on its temperature, and the fact that it reacts for a long time, etc., the basement can be considered differently. That is why I will come back to this decision in a later question. This decision is for me in advance, even, of the first decision you would make to bury or not bury geologically.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic593x.u148	I would like to add, as I have already said and as you will understand, that neither you nor I are technicians working at AFCN or ONDRAF. It is therefore important first of all that these two institutions, which work in interaction and which must adopt a common position, do so. Then, of course, we will be able to discuss the proposal that has been made. I would remind you that this is a proposal that is in any case subject to public inquiry, most likely, under the 2006 SEA Act. So let us not mingle the stages of reasoning especially in technical areas which I myself do not have enough control. So I'm not going to comment on the mastery you would possibly have on these subjects technically, but if you had the same level of technical skills as people working at ONDRAF or AFCN, that would be true. First of all – and this is the prerequisite – that these interacting institutions agree to make a national policy proposal that will then be subject to broad consultation to enable the government to make the right decision.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic593x.u149	I have absolutely no claim to have any scientific knowledge of this matter. For reading a series of things and for looking a little bit at what is happening in other countries, I have tried to achieve consistency in the order of decisions to be taken. But we'll come back. I will rest the questions around that.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic593x.u150	Mr President, I read: "Until the suspension of authorisations for radiological characterisation is lifted, Electrabel stores radioactive waste in the specially designed storage building at its Doel and Tihange sites. Electrabel has informed me that it has sufficient storage capacity to cover its needs during the period during which its approvals will be suspended, a period which should not exceed a few months".
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic593x.u151	That's what I said to Mr Wollants.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic593x.u152	So, it's still suspended for now. I have the answer to the question that was related to the previous question. I'm saying that for the reports that are going to be fun, I think.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic593x.u153	Minister, the February 7th newspaper L'Echo announces that the hydropower plant at the Plate Taille dam would be interested in an increase in its size. Do you know about this file and what capacity is at stake? Can you compare this project to the project you visited in Coo? Both projects also want to see a change in the legislative framework in this area. The newspaper L'Echo suggests that the discussions skate between intercabinets because you would not produce the requested numbers. In this case, the Echo is at stake!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic593x.u154	I know who writes in which newspaper! Don't worry!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic593x.u155	I'm not worried about that or anything else, except what's happening in the world, but it's another debate. Minister, can you confirm what is claimed and clarify? What is the status of the texts "storage" and "demand management" in their respective paths? When will they get to parliament? What are the remaining issues?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic593x.u156	Mr Nollet, the bills on storage and demand management aim to bring more flexibility to the electrical system. In the same way as increasing the flexibility of the conventional production stock and the capacity available at borders, the development of demand flexibility and the development of electricity storage are tools to be put in place to meet the increased needs for flexibility, particularly in view of the intermittent nature of renewables. In this context, several manufacturers have shown some interest in both demand management and storage. With regard to the case of the hydropower plant at Plate Taille whose storage capacity is far less than that of Coo which I visited, I have not received any concrete request in this respect and I do not know the ins and outs of this project. Let us be very clear about this! Bills for storage and demand management were submitted to the Council of Ministers at first reading on 2 December 2016, and the file was submitted for the advice of the Council of State, which we received on 4 January 2017. This draft and the explanatory memorandum have been revised in the light of the opinion of the Council of State. It seems to me respectful of the Regions to wait until the revised dossier is submitted to the Council of Ministers at second reading before submitting it to the Conciliation Committee. In the meantime, the discussions and figures requested relate to the exemption from the federal assessment of storage units and the impact that this exemption has on other consumers. This was my duty at the end of the December 2016 presentation of these two bills, since I had to, in the interval between the two readings, the time that the matter came back from the Council of State, question the CREG about it, which I did. For example, on 7 December, after the Council of Ministers on 2 December, I sent a first letter to CREG. This was followed by a series of exchanges with the Commission. And I asked, by letter of 10 February, the CREG, to refine certain figures. As a first estimate, it appears that this exemption will have a very limited impact that does not compromise the competitive position of industrial consumers. However, compensatory solutions – this is included in my specifications – in order to neutralise or even limit the impact of the federal contribution on all consumers are, at my request, still under consideration within the CREG with the additional requests that I have made again recently. When I have all this package, I will be able to return to the Council of Ministers at second reading, which, if it validates the draft at second reading, will allow this project to move to the Concertation Committee and then to the Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic593x.u157	Madam Minister, thank you. I will support what you say about the importance of making our production system more flexible, and that is being done on different parameters. So I support you on this aspect: storage is one, demand management is another. I would also like to thank you for the clarifications you made in your answer, the fact that you do not have specific information on the Plate Taille. We'll see if it comes later, if the project is filed with you or not. I am more surprised, on the other hand, than the elements that you put a little emphasis on the article and which you are critical of. Personally, I did not see the problem in the article in relation to these elements.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic593x.u158	It is said that figures are not given and that this is because of it. That's not true. That's not the problem at all. So this is still a shortened way of seeing things, in the sense that figures must be provided by the CREG. It's the technical institution I work with. The CREG was reinvigorated to refine the figures because in IKW last week the request was made to have a complementary refinement to what the CREG had responded in terms of exemptions and the impact of these exemptions on storage.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic593x.u159	I just read what the reporter wrote. I don't think there's any problem. Anyway, there's no need to argue.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic593x.u160	Mr Nollet, I listened to your sentence. I will read the article and it is very likely that there is no problem but, in the sentence you are quoting, there is a judgment of value: it is said that negotiations skate without figures. That's not true. That's what you said. I heard what you read and I guess that's what's in the article.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic593x.u161	I'm not going to argue unnecessarily.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic593x.u162	Neither do I.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic593x.u163	Madam Minister, as agreed with you, I have asked your colleague Jambon about the work required on the Doel 1 and Doel 2 lids as part of the extension of their lifespan. He told me that repairs are absolutely necessary on Doel 1's lid, which is not to reassure us, but on this part, I will continue the discussion with him. On the other hand, he sends me back to you to find out the estimated budgetary impact of this necessary work and already planned during the 2018 revision. Can you therefore provide us with all the figures on this subject?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic593x.u164	Dear colleague, the base for the Doel 1 and Doel 2 LTO and the April 2015 synthesis report approved by AFCN are available to the general public on the Internet. In this report, it is stated that the decision to replace the covers of Doel 1 and Doel 2 tanks would be assessed on the basis of a complete inspection program and carried out upstream of a life extension. At that time, remember, you were talking about replacing those lids. In the meantime, this inspection program has taken place. It uses very advanced measurement technologies and has demonstrated that safety is guaranteed by performing repairs using a qualified technique and used successfully worldwide on several covers. This process is subject to a safety study, evaluated and validated by international experts and Bel V. This is what Minister Jambon told you in committee on 18 January 2017 for Doel 1. Mr Sageman d'Electrabel also told you at the hearing of Electrabel, at the nuclear safety sub-committee of 24 January 2017, that it should be noted, in this context, that replacing a lid is not necessarily the safest solution. Indeed, to replace it, it is necessary to drill a hole in the steel containment, which is a delicate and logistically complicated operation. With regard to the budgetary impact and your question, Electrabel tells me that I am committed to making the necessary investments for the operation of Doel 1 and Doel 2 until 2025, corresponding to a portfolio of about 100 sub-projects, and initially estimated at 700 million euros, like Mr. Van Troeye told you in response to your question at its hearing by the same sub-committee on nuclear safety on 24 January 2017. On this occasion, Electrabel also told you that repairing a lid was certainly cheaper than replacing it, but that with regard to the total budget of the LTO of Doel 1 and Doel 2, it was not excluded that, on other cost items, Electrabel would be faced with budgetary overruns, as for example for the Seismic Margin assessment studies which allow to verify the robustness of the installations in relation to earthquakes, beyond the design studies.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic593x.u165	All this is true; but it does not answer my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic593x.u166	That's all I have for an answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic593x.u167	My question was simply: in case, not of replacement, but of repair, not of Doel 1 and Doel 2, but only of Doel 1 (since, according to the studies, only that would be necessary), how much will the simple renovation cost, compared to the imagined replacement of the two lids, for which 80 million had been planned? That's my question. It is not a question of knowing that the total is 700 million. We knew that. It is not a question of knowing that there are still high costs on the ADM, etc. It's just that question I was asking, but I don't have an answer. Yet I had already put it to you and to Mr Jambon.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic593x.u168	Mr. Nollet, I understand. You've been very stubborn for a long time. We share that quality. Basically, that answer is all I have to give you. I said that many months ago. When this answer fits into reality, because the work has been done and the costs will be known, you will have Electrabel's answer. The only place you'll get a concrete answer is Electrabel. The AFCN, which you have already interviewed, replied that it did not know the answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic593x.u169	It makes sense she doesn't know her. You sent me back to her, but it makes sense she doesn't know her. It decides on the principle: do we need to replace it or not? - No matter what the cost. Today, we know that, according to the AFCN, it is not necessary to replace but to renovate. But the evaluation indicated that replacement would cost $80 million. Why do we not have the update of this evaluation information?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic593x.u170	Because I don't need it. It is absolutely not involved in the accounting or in the negotiation since the fee, which is the counterpart of the extension, is fixed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic593x.u171	There are many things I ask you that are not necessary for you!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic593x.u172	This is an absolutely certain out-of-court confession.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic593x.u173	It is the right of the parliamentarian to ask questions and get answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic593x.u174	I can't give you an answer I don't have! All I have is what I told you!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic593x.u175	You have to ask them! You asked for the 80 million at the time.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic593x.u176	I'm going to ask again...
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic593x.u177	Let them update that number!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic593x.u178	I'm going to ask Electrabel again to update that number.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic593x.u179	Thank you. I'm going to ask you another question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic593x.u180	I turn to my collaborator who will register this supplementary application and who will be happy to follow up on it.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic593x.u181	I thank him already!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic593x.u182	Minister, here is another question in connection with an article in the newspaper L'Echo, and I apologize for that. It's a good reading.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic593x.u183	Is it about the box that followed the storage?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic593x.u184	Yes, but it's still in connection with the February 7th newspaper L'Echo.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic593x.u185	I don't want to alter your wonderful question score by saying that it is of no interest, but ask it! That will make you one more question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic593x.u186	I think I didn't give you the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic593x.u187	But I can still take it!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic593x.u188	I don't know if the president would agree, but either.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic593x.u189	He's not here!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic593x.u190	You're enjoying a little too much!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic593x.u191	It's February 14th.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic593x.u192	You can't do it. I'll ask my question. The February 7 edition of L'Echo reports two additional departures within your firm. They do indeed add to an already long list. One of these two departures attracts our particular attention, as it follows a serious driving problem, incompatible with a position in the firm. Can you give us the precise reasons why you considered it absolutely necessary and indispensable to "thank" this collaborator? What are the driving problems that led to this rare decision? We also have the right to question the timing of this dismissal. If problems of driving and/or position on the dossier of flexibility and storage, as explained by the agent concerned in the newspaper L'Echo, are involved, why have you collaborated for so long before taking such a decision?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic593x.u193	Contrary to what you are saying, Mr. Nollet, such problems are not uncommon in ministerial offices, which are all based on a relationship of trust. It was not me, directly, who made the answer to the journalist. I wasn't there. I was visiting L'Oréal to worry about microplastics in cosmetics. The bottom of the case is that for a while you work with people, and then it turns out that at the turn of the processing of a case, you see that this or that element breaks the legitimate trust you have in this co-worker, which is why, on a concrete basis, I carried out this dismissal.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic593x.u194	We've already had the opportunity to talk about it several times, you've separated yourself from your collaborator, but when you say it's not uncommon, whether it's related to a trust problem, that... anyway, at this point, in what you mentioned...
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic593x.u195	It is not uncommon for redundancies to occur in firms and it is not uncommon for reason to be a breach of trust.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic593x.u196	Has this ever happened to you? In this legislature?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic593x.u197	A breach of trust, not to that extent, but a little bit with another collaborator.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic593x.u198	Because, indeed, on the first part of your answer, yes, we know, it is the life of the firms. We had already talked about other cases as well. But, for a breach of trust, you say it's not uncommon! I didn't.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic593x.u199	This can happen!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic593x.u200	I'm not saying this can't happen, but when you say it's not uncommon, I wanted to ask you about the extent of these things.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic593x.u201	But I'm neutral. When I say things at the moment, it's the truth. At the same time, I say this in a completely neutral way. Everyone's on their way. Apart from that, there is no problem. The firm has to work. Point!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic593x.u202	On this point, I agree with you. This may happen, but your "not rare" surprises me.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic593x.u203	If I observe what's going on around me, I'm far from the only one in all the cabinets that make up the government. Voluntary or forced departure is not uncommon. It is also not uncommon for trust problems to arise, because people are changing in such a way that at some point it is no longer possible to work together.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic593x.u204	I'll ask your colleagues, 'cause you're making me eat.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic593x.u205	Don't hesitate!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-14-54-commissie-ic593x.u206	Having said that, we have exhausted our agenda.
