ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic594x.u1	Mr Secretary of State, I would like to ask you about the follow-up of unaccompanied minors (MENA) who have arrived in Europe. In southern Italy, where the situation is most difficult due to the number of arrivals, more than 20,000 miners arrived in 2016 in emergency centres, according to the estimate of Save the Children. These structures are very weakly equipped – they visibly receive 45 euros per child –, poorly organized and are highly dependent on external assistance to follow up on these MENA, especially thanks to psychological help. In addition, some cities do not have such centres, resulting in many young people being handed over to themselves and forced to sleep in the streets. In 2016, the Italian authorities estimated the number of MENA missing since the beginning of the year to be around 6,500. This figure clearly shows the extent of the consequences of indigence in the follow-up to MENA. Mr Secretary of State, have you ever discussed this issue with your European counterparts? Have you ever mentioned the possibility of setting up specific aid to support the Italian authorities facing the influx of refugees?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic594x.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should be leaving at 12 noon. But I will certainly come back next week, if that were necessary, to deal with everything else so that by the end of the month we have certainly answered all the questions correctly. To answer Mr Crusnière's question as to whether or not there are shortcomings in the reception of MENA in Italy, I believe that this question is primarily the responsibility of the Italian State. Like Italy, Belgium has, in recent years, also faced similar problems which, in comparison with the size of the population, have sometimes been more important in our country. We have taken our responsibilities to deal with and resolve them. That being said, I do not, of course, claim that we must remain blind to the problems that arise in other countries. On the contrary, the Belgian Government is in favour of an effective European approach. This means that each Member State of the European Union must implement an asylum policy that complies with European standards. The EU must implement solidarity mechanisms by supporting Member States that are under strong pressure. In this case, Italy can rely on real support from the European Union of the Member States through the relocation process or the European Asylum Support Office (EASO) through the provision of experts. Our country is one of the few Member States to have made specific pledges in the context of the resettlement of MENA. We have already made forty places available for the resettlement of this vulnerable group, including ten for refugees from Italy. Only nationalities with a high chance of recognition are considered for relocation. Eritreans, Syrians are rare in Italy, they are in Greece. In Italy, we find mainly refugees with low recognition rates, especially sub-Saharan Africans. In Malta, we met Belgians in crucial positions, working for the Office of the Commissioner-General for Refugees and Stateless Persons (CCRA), in Fedasil, for the European Asylum Support Office (EASO), the asylum office of the European Union, which is expanding. They work there or they're detached. In Warsaw, Frontex also has a team of Belgians in key positions. It'll be really interesting. I was in Warsaw in December to visit and talk with the Belgian team but also with the general manager. The committee is doing what it wants, but I think it is interesting to maintain these contacts and to carry out these visits. Malta and Warsaw are only two hours away by plane, that's not far away.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic594x.u3	I think that is indeed an interesting suggestion for our committee. The purpose of my question, Mr Secretary of State, was not to call for your judgment on what is being done in Italy. We have enough information through the associations and NGOs that work in this sector and sound the alarm. My concern – and you are putting things in place in Belgium to try to remedy it – is that MENA need a special welcome. These young people arrive alone, without families, cut off from their loved ones and in difficult conditions. We know it's very complicated in Italy. Unfortunately, they often fall into the wrong hands. I was quoting the figure of more than 6,500 MENA who are out of the planned reception channel. My question was more about whether the debate existed with your counterparts. I believe that a coordinated European approach is necessary to respond specifically to the reception of these MENA.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic594x.u4	You are asking if we are working together at European level. Of course, about the conditions of reception in Italy. It's not easy. It is still the European Asylum Support Office (EASO) that reports on the state of the situation. For the relocation of MENA, we have to wait months to fill these places because Italy does not transmit the files to our services. We inform them that we have 40 seats. These aren't even filled. With the administration, it's very complicated. I don't want to point a finger at anyone, it's not my role, it's my style, but I'm just seeing.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic594x.u5	Mr. Secretary of State, I can hear you. Perhaps we should also, at European level – I am not talking about Belgium in particular – increase the administrative staff to try to speed up the processing of cases. It's really dramatic. This is what happened again at the Malta Summit, I had the opportunity to discuss it yesterday with the Prime Minister: ways were found to close the borders with Libya even further; 200 million were promised for the border guards. But let us not forget – that is what I want to stress – that the situation in the various camps in this region of Europe remains complicated. This must be taken into account and resources devoted to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic594x.u6	The answer will be given by Mr Franken, Secretary of State, instead of the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic594x.u7	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, after my question on the MENA, I come to the situation in the camps in Italy and I would like to ask you about this situation, since Amnesty International has published a new report in which the authors, after visiting several camps, denounce the increase in forced evictions, ill-treatment that may be considered by some of them as torture. The report reveals serious shortcomings in the "crisis centres" approach imposed by the European Commission, in order to better identify newcomers, to better assess their protection needs and finally to process their asylum applications. Indeed, the "crisis centres" approach which was initially designed to reduce the pressure on the shoulders of states in the front line, such as Italy, had the opposite effect. Moreover, the relocation programme, which was designed as part of the "crisis centres" approach, does not work. While the European Commission has proposed a relocation plan for 40,000 people in Italy and Greece, we find that this plan is not working or not working well enough. Therefore, in view of the various observations made in this report, do you intend to request, in cooperation with the European Union, an independent evaluation of the current system in order to be able, if necessary, to correct certain points? Does Belgium intend to provide additional human and material assistance to Italy, which has some difficulties in coping with the massive influx of refugees into its territory?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic594x.u8	My colleague, Belgium is obviously concerned about allegations of ill-treatment in Italian hot spots. If these facts are proven, it goes without saying that it strongly condemns them. Following this report, the Italian Senate and the Italian Human Rights Committee held two hearings on human rights violations in hot spots. The Italian Minister of the Interior called on local administrations to become more involved in welcoming migrants and called on the European Union to put in place more measures based on solidarity. The difficulty of arrivals in Italy lies in the fact that most nationalities are not eligible for relocation. EASO is based on Eurostat data and allows the relocation of only nationalities with a 75% recognition threshold. Currently, these nationalities include Burundi, Eritrea, Mozambique, Bahrain, Bhutan, Qatar, Syria and Yemen. Bhutan is spoken of because probably there must have been one or two nationals of that country who have been recognized, but this concerns mainly Eritrea and Syria. However, arrivals in Italy are mainly made up of the nationalities of Nigeria, Eritrea, Guinea, Côte d'Ivoire, Gambia and Senegal. As a result, only Eritreans can participate in the relocation programme. This was explained in the previous question. Moreover, the majority of people arriving in Italy are not refugees but economic migrants. Even if asylum applications are submitted, they are either manifestly unfounded or inadmissible. In addition, some of these countries are even on the list of safe countries in some Member States. Indeed, Senegal is one of the safe countries on the list drawn up by France. I have also asked the Commissioner-General for an opinion on Senegal in order to possibly add Senegal to the Belgian list of safe countries. I think one of Mr Hellings' questions will be on this subject in a few moments. At the end of January, almost 3,000 people were relocated from Italy and 8,300 from Greece. Belgium has already offered 200 places in Italy, but only 29 people have actually arrived. For Greece, Belgium offered 530 places and 209 people actually arrived. Of course, from theory to practice, there is a margin, as often in politics. The mechanism is tedious because of the limited number of cases that can be proposed by Italy and not because of a lack of will on the part of Belgium. As requested by the European Commission, our country will always do new pledges at regular intervals between now and September. In addition, 484 experts from Member States are deployed for Operation Triton, with a budget of approximately €3 million per month and 46 experts are deployed under EASO. Two Belgian experts are currently in Italy and two more candidates have been proposed for deployment in the coming months. I come to the conduct of an independent evaluation recalling that hot spots are under the authority of the host Member State and that European agents as well as experts deployed by the Member States are invited. Even in crisis situations, the European Union must respect the principle of subsidiarity and the sovereignty of the Member States. The Integrated Political Crisis Response monitors the situation in hot spots and, more generally, in the Member States at the external borders.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic594x.u9	Mr President, I thank the Secretary of State for his reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic594x.u10	Mr President, Secretary of State, every year you publish a list of safe countries. The presence of eight countries on the list makes it almost impossible to see the successful completion of asylum applications by nationals of those same States. You systematically re-enter Albania on this list while the jurisprudence of the French-speaking section of the Litigation Council and many international reports point to the inability of the Albanian authorities to ensure the protection of their citizens in several cases: vendettas, denunciation of corruption and homosexuality. This is why the Council of State regularly cancels the Royal Decree on registration on the grounds that the asylum authorities regularly grant refugee status to candidates from Albania. Thus, on 23 June 2016, the Council of State issued a ruling cancelling the list of safe countries for 2016. In this regard, it has followed the jurisprudence already applied to the royal decrees of 26 May 2012, 7 May 2013, 24 April 2014 and 11 May 2015. Everyone will have understood that in general this list is published in the spring. On 16 November, you announced that, for 2017, you wanted to add three Maghreb countries (Tunisia, Algeria, Morocco), Moldova, Senegal and Benin to a list that so far already included Albania, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Macedonia, Kosovo, Montenegro, Serbia, India and Georgia. With this in mind, you have asked for the opinion of the Office of the Commissioner-General for Refugees and Stateless Persons (CGRA), which, until now, has always opposed the mention of Morocco and Senegal, for these two countries are not considered safe for homosexuals and transgenderes. In fact, according to the press, you would consider exceptions for these specific cases. Mr Secretary of State, when do you envisage the publication of a new royal decree containing an adapted list of so-called safe countries? What are the procedures envisaged by your services to determine the "exceptions", i.e. cases of nationals of Albania, Morocco and Senegal seeking asylum from Belgium who are at risk as homosexuals and transgenderes? Does not the consistent case-law of the Council of State with regard to the cancellation of the mention of Albania on the list of so-called safe countries prompt you to redouble your caution in extending this list to countries that are experiencing situations very similar to those of Albania?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic594x.u11	Mr President, my colleague, the publication of a new royal decree with an adapted list of safe countries is scheduled for the first half of 2017. There are no specific procedures for defining possible exceptions. As a first step, I expect the CGRA's opinion, which should be forwarded to me in about two weeks. Together with my colleague, the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mr Reynders, whose services will also give an opinion, I will submit to the government a new proposal for a list of safe countries of origin. A new list of countries will be drawn up taking into account the situation in the countries of origin and the criteria laid down in the law. For countries for which an opinion has been requested from CGRA, it will be determined whether they can be considered as safe countries of origin. Where appropriate, it will be mentioned that the assessment does not apply to a specific area of the country or to certain groups of inhabitants. Other countries using a list of safe countries of origin also apply this procedure. For each safe country of origin, a new assessment of the situation shall be carried out each year, taking into account the criteria laid down in the law. This is done with all due care in all countries of origin and, therefore, also in the case of Albania.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic594x.u12	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, that is indeed a good idea. I encourage you to follow the advice of the CGRA systematically and to wait for it before making any decision on good governance and democraticly sound. I went to the CGRA website. If we count all the asylum applications for the countries you would like to add to the list of safe countries, we are talking about less than 300 applications for Algeria, Morocco and Tunisia, which is little. The greatest demand does not come from these countries. Last year, 18,710 applications were submitted. A few hundred out of 18,000 are small. Keep in mind that the goal of the safe list of countries is to expedite the review of applications with non- suspensive appeals and sometimes refusals. When listed on a list of safe countries, the admissibility of the application is virtually null and void. Of course, your aim is to speed up the procedure. I inquired: out of 28 Member States of the European Union, only 13 have a national list of safe countries, only Belgium, Bulgaria and the Netherlands mention Algeria among those safe countries, and no other country considers Algeria, Morocco or Tunisia as safe countries. I would like to remind you that these states are a major obstacle to freedom of association – in this case, freedom of association or the right to form a political party. If we talk about the obstacle to freedom of expression or the press, the 2016 Reporters Without Borders ranking shows that Algeria is in 129th place and Morocco in 131st place. What does that mean, Secretary of State? This means that someone who would seek asylum for these reasons, such as a journalist or trade unionist, could face a refusal on the grounds that these two countries are on the list of safe countries. That would be a terrible shame, given that the expression of fundamental rights was muzzled there.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic594x.u13	Mr Secretary of State, this question dates back to a while ago and was presented in the margins of the publication of the Federal Ombudsman's report on medical regularisation. It clearly exposes a number of pain points in the Foreign Affairs Office about medical regularisation. For example, doctors are being put under pressure to deviate from the Code of Practice, for example on professional secrecy, there is no coordination of the decisions taken by doctors, which is contrary to equal treatment, the procedure takes a very long time and there is no effective suspensive appeal against the decisions. Doctors should also, more than at present, take into account the individual situation of the applicant and the real social context in order to assess access to care in the country of origin. These are some of the major findings made in that report. I have the following questions. First of all, do you acknowledge the problems? Secondly, what measures will you take to improve the processing of applications for medical regularisation? Thirdly, the Department of Foreign Affairs looks like, on your instruction, to limit the number of medical regularizations, regardless of the merits of the applications. For example, the eligibility criteria have been tightened, which has reduced the number of applications, but, above all, doctors testify that they are being put under pressure to be sufficiently strict in their decisions. How can you defend this as a fair policy?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic594x.u14	Mr De Vriendt, I have studied the Ombudsman's report and I would like to make a few comments. There's a hearing next week. I understand that Mr Roosemont will be heard there. He will respond to this in greater detail. I don't doubt that for a moment. The doctors-advisers of DVZ are not put under pressure to deviate from medical duties. They shall be fully autonomous in the performance of their duties. This is not only in the law, but is also confirmed by the case law of the RVV. Official doctors work for DVZ and are subject to professional secrecy, as provided for in Article 458 of the Criminal Code. That's even explicitly stated in the Foreigner's Act. With regard to the coordination of the decisions taken by the doctors, I would like to point out that the doctors do not make decisions but formulate medical advice. They consult very regularly, both informally and formally. I believe that each dossier deserves an individual opinion tailored to the situation of the stranger. Lists of diseases or common assessment criteria which should lead to uniform advice are detrimental to the autonomy of doctors and do not take into account the individual situation of the sick person. In connection with the prohibition of contact, the Ombudsman's remark is based on a misunderstanding. The instruction was intended to prevent the doctors-advisers from being approached directly by third parties. Moreover, it is not the intention, and it would be a waste of time to enter into consultation with the treating doctors. This is not part of the procedure laid down by law in accordance with Article 9b, where it is up to the person concerned to provide all useful and recent information. Moreover, it has little added value as it would not be a discussion on the disease picture but on the need for treatment in Belgium. As regards the length of the procedure, I agree with you that a decision must be taken as soon as possible. However, I am not in favour of introducing binding deadlines, as the number of applications can vary considerably and DVD often depends on externals to obtain necessary information. I can assure you that the administration will do everything in its power to deal with the cases as quickly as possible. Mr De Vriendt, as you know, we met yesterday, if we continue to work in this way and at this rate we can catch up, then before the end of the year we will have for the first time since 1980, so for the first time ever, no longer any delay in regularization, not even the 9th. Then there will be a de facto very quick answer. We have to be careful with these deadlines, because sometimes we have to wait for external opinions. Well, that's beyond your control. Suppose we have to ask for an external opinion on 9a for information such as: who exactly do we have in front of us, or is it someone who is known or who we think is known to the intelligence services, then that can of course take a while and then we do not meet our time limits of order. The answers are already coming very quickly. We're catching up on the last thousand files. In the autumn, all delays will be eliminated. This means that when someone submits an application, it will be dealt with very quickly. That's what it's always been meant to be. Ngmaals, between theory and practice there are things, but that should work. There is no legal need to introduce an appeal procedure with suspensive effect for the Council for Foreign Affairs Disputes. Its introduction may lead to unfounded applications, which unnecessarily increases the duration of the proceedings and subsequent appeals. The real individual situation of the foreigner is taken into account. Each application shall be dealt with individually. Several processing judgments of the RVV also confirm that the DVZ takes due account of the individual situation of the person concerned and that the DVZ complies with the law and with the resulting UN ruling. Secondly, measures are constantly being taken to improve the examination of applications 9b and to adapt them to the case law. I am currently examining a legislative amendment to allow the division of the procedure in accordance with Article 9 and subsidiary protection, as already provided for in the coalition agreement. What was also unfortunately not picked up during the investigation is that there are different internal control mechanisms in place to avoid that applications 9b would not be dealt with or overlooked. Work is being carried out on the development of permanent medical training for the doctors-advisers. On 16 February 2012, the medical admissibility condition was introduced. The amendment was made during the legislature of then Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration, Mr Wathelet. I still support that. I also voted in favour of the draft. I do not know how your group voted at that time. I should look that up sometime. However, that medical filter was absolutely necessary. As you will recall, at some point there were more 9-Ber medical applications than 9-Ber medical applications. There are usually more humanitarian applications, which is obvious because of the lengthy procedures. Article 9b applications were normally only for exceptional situations, which is obvious. Anyone who gets cancer, we won't send them back. This can be achieved through medical regularisation. Suddenly, however, there were twice as many medical regularization applications as humanitarian ones. The situation got completely out of hand. At some point, there were more than 10 000 such applications within a year. Then the medical filter came in, it didn't just fall out of the sky. The measure was taken by consensus. Many of the Members who are here have argued in favour of this and voted in favour of the measure. I don't remember your vote or your vote. I'm gonna have to get that looked up. It is therefore clear that the amendment of the law is carried by several parties and cannot be dismissed as my instruction. That's a little short. The systematic investigation by the Federal Ombudsman also started in February 2015, when I was barely four months Secretary of State. The proactive political policy of recent years and the various legislative changes have reduced fraud, abuse and improper use of the procedure, and the procedure again belongs to the foreigners for whom it was originally intended, namely people in illegal residence or without a right of residence who are actually sick or who are really ill. It is an exception procedure and not a migration channel. Thanks to the never-ending efforts of the administration and despite constant and unjustified external criticism, the number of pending applications for less than five years has fallen from more than 11 000 p.m. to less than 1 000 p.m. at the end of 2011 and not the last three years. Hopefully, by the end of the year, we will have caught up. I aim to reduce that number further and therefore recruit new medical advisors. The constantly repeated and rehabilitated testimony of one doctor who is ideologically unable to agree with the legislation in force, who worked for the DVZ only for one year and who has ceased to work since the end of 2012, but who is still being promoted everywhere as an expert in this area, is no proof that no fair policy would be applied. I can assure you that the policy that may seem too strict for some is indeed fair and fairer than the granting of residence permits à la tête du client. I would like to stress once again that I do not have a new medical regularisation policy, that I have not given instructions to my administration, on paper or orally, on a stricter or different approach to the 9ter applications. It is the same procedure that has been followed since the legal amendment with the medical filter in 2012 by Mrs De Block, by Mr Wathelet and the then formed majorities. This has meant that the backlog has been eliminated for a very large part and that people who are really sick and really need it are also effectively regularised on medical grounds. Are there any errors in the system or are there any files that may be wondering whether it is a correct decision? That's very difficult, because it gets in the media sometimes or it gets on my desk. I'm not a doctor. I grew up in a family of doctors, but I'm absolutely not a doctor, so I don't know. Sometimes one can think that it is a difficult issue. These are all very difficult issues and mistaken is human, but I really think that the Department of Foreign Affairs is working very conscientiously on the 9th procedure. Really, I'm quite sure of that, but the hearing will certainly provide more clarification.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic594x.u15	Mr Secretary of State, we must not go too lightly on the report. It is not a journalist or the media, but the federal ombudsman who has identified a number of serious issues in the policy on 9ter. It is therefore very good that we will hold a hearing. The question was also useful because your position is now clear to everyone. In fact, you broadly deny the findings made in the report. Professional secrecy...
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic594x.u16	I'll rebut them.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic594x.u17	Yes, you refute them, you deny them. You say they're not right. It concerns, for example, the findings of professional secrecy, the individual situation of the applicant, which would not be sufficiently taken into account, the fact that doctors are put under pressure to be sufficiently strict. Your position is clear. For me, it's about medical regularization, not reducing the number of applications. I do not think that should be an objective of policy. Nor should it be an objective to make the procedures as short as possible and then perhaps fall into the trap and act very strictly and remove people. The objective of medical regularisation is to help those who need help. The Federal Ombudsman's report says that this is not achieved in all cases because of a number of system errors. So I'm looking forward to the hearing. In any case, we will be very vigilant and very strict in our questions. Medical regularisation is a humanitarian regularisation due to the medical situation of the person concerned. This must therefore be applied thoroughly and fairly.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic594x.u18	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Fonck's 15449 will be converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic594x.u19	Mr President, I would like to return to the previous question. We have asked for hearings on this matter. I think we should discuss this thoroughly in the coming weeks. Mr Secretary of State, my question was already drafted at the beginning of December, but I will update it. In response to a previous parliamentary question from me on the possible resumption of Dublin transfers, you replied that you would strictly respect the recommendations of the European Commission. You also said that you had already sent a question to the Greek authorities, given a certain preparation before such an agreement. After all, there are deadlines that must be respected. At that time, you assumed that Dublin transfers would be resumed in December, although the third recommendation of the European Commission, which was adopted in September, was already missing. On Thursday 8 December, the European Commission issued a new fourth recommendation. The Commission states that a resumption can only take place from 15 March 2017 and only for asylum seekers who entered Greece after 15 March 2017, on a case-by-case basis. I have the following questions about this. When was the Dublin request sent to Greece? What was Greece's reaction? What are the consequences of the European Commission's recent recommendation on Dublin transfers, which were or were in the process of being prepared and for which you have already sent a request to the Greek authorities? As an update I would like to add a few more questions. What recent developments are there in the reception situation in Greece? Are you serious about Greece being ready? Some time ago, you withdrew the administrative contact person on asylum from Greece. We understand that Belgium is the only country that has acted in this way. In a double interview with your Greek counterpart, Minister Mouzalas, you indicated your intention to return the asylum personnel as soon as possible. Minister Mouzalas rightly said that the longer you wait to send them back, the more difficult the situation becomes. When will you send asylum staff back to Greece? What are the concrete plans? What's the timing?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic594x.u20	Mr President, Secretary of State, Mrs De Coninck has just given an overview and asked an additional question which I also wanted to ask. On Thursday 8 December, together with the Greek authorities, the European Commission proposed a joint action plan to help Greece reduce the number of refugees remaining on the Greek islands. A deadline is attached to the plan to put the Greek asylum system on track, so that refugees can normally be taken back from March 2017. As a result, Dublin transfers to Greece could gradually resume. The European Commission considered that the Greek authorities have made significant progress in establishing institutional and legal structures relevant to a well-functioning asylum system. In support of Greek efforts, the European Commission calls on the other Member States to deploy sufficient asylum experts in Greece. Mr Secretary of State, at the end of last year you have already answered questions about the withdrawal of some experts from Greece. In November, you decided to withdraw the Belgian asylum experts from Greece because of the poor security situation in the refugee camps. As part of this new action plan, will you be able to send experts back to the islands? What is the situation at the moment? Has the Commission given additional guarantees to ensure the safety of these experts?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic594x.u21	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs De Coninck, in October six files were not submitted to the Greek authorities, in November 13 and in December two In five cases Greece refused to take back the person concerned. However, in three cases a request for revision was addressed to the Greek authority. In a case a tacit agreement was obtained, which is an implicit agreement, since the Greek authorities did not reply to the question put by the Belgian authorities within the prescribed period. For the rest, we were not allowed to receive a reply from the Greek authorities. The trial was put on hold. We were actually ready to do that. I know there was a lot of commotion about it, but I was going to do it anyway. That is when Europe came up with a proposal. I was addressed by Viktor Orbán to what I wanted to do, while a week later Europe actually proposed the same thing to make Dublin claims back to Greece, albeit for another group, but under the same principle of Dublin claims. I have, of course, talked about this with my fellow Members, including my Greek colleague. The situation in Greece is difficult. In this sense, it may not be evident to be fully committed to the implementation of the Dublin claims. The Greeks themselves have a full responsibility for improving reception conditions. In the meantime, they have already received almost EUR 1 billion. Last week's report from the management board of the EASO was not positive. Yesterday we met on this subject. The reception conditions on the mainland are fine, but on the islands they are really not good, still not. The people of the EASO are beginning to become hopeless. That is all I am going to say, because I am not in the mood for commotion with the Greek colleagues. However, this is something that needs to be discussed. The budgets released will not be included. Administrations are often more anti-cooperative than co-operative. For example, it took three months for the EASO to access the Internet on the islands. In Mali, a godforsaken hole that is part of the Sahel, this was solved within 24 hours and could be online worldwide. So it's not easy working for the people of the EASO. I've decided to alert us to the European story. We will not therefore carry out the Dublin claims, at least not for the time being. I can live with that. Mrs Gabriels and Mrs De Coninck, there is no doubt that I am genuinely serious about what I said about our staff. Our country is not the only one who has withdrawn employees. Denmark and Norway have also done so. In fact, I believe that all Scandinavian countries have withdrawn their employees for security reasons. A few weeks ago, there was a mission from Denmark and Norway. Greece has promised our staff who do the asylum interviews to do their work outside the hotspots. That is a very important point. That was promised and it would start from March. We are now sending a security mission, accompanied by someone from Fedasil, as well as our director of operations, who is a skilled person. We're going with five countries. The mission will take place in the course of the following days. It will be checked whether the situation has improved and then we will send our people back, as promised. We do that to help the Greeks. We want to help the Greeks. I've always said that. We are absolutely of good will. That is what Mr Mouzalas said in that interview. However, it is important to speed things up at the level of the Greek administration as well.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic594x.u22	Mr Secretary of State, I went to a meeting in Malmö and I saw a number of people from Greece there. They mainly complained about contact with Turkey, in order to speed up the completion of the files. Turkey has withdrawn all its staff from the Greek islands, making it difficult to negotiate dossiers. Perhaps something should be done about that. I know this from a Greek. I do not know to what extent this is objective. I'm careful with that. In any case, I am hopeful that you will work with other Member States, including Scandinavian countries, to start more effective procedures.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic594x.u23	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply on the current state of affairs.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic594x.u24	Mr President, I would like to say a few words about this. As far as sending back to Turkey is concerned, it is true that relations between Greece and Turkey are not evident; they have never been, as you know. This also has to do with the fact that a number of soldiers have applied for asylum in the hotspots on the islands of Greece. Turkey is asking for those involved to be sent back, but of course Greece does not want to. We must first examine whether they can obtain asylum. That has created a lot of friction. That is a first point. Secondly, the asylum files are blocked by the Greeks, in their asylum system. Where a decision is taken, the parties concerned shall then appeal to the appeal body. That takes a terrible long time, but they'll stay in the hotspots by now. There are still people, not so many more, but still dozens of people a week. Everything turns into the soup, of course. Mrs. De Coninck, it's like our asylum centers when they get all full. You've already questioned me about that. The current capacity utilisation rate is 80 % and 90% in the collective. This is already fairly full, but when the capacity utilisation rate at a given time was 105 %, this naturally led to incidents.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic594x.u25	Mrs. Van Hoof is not here.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic594x.u26	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, these are questions that come back regularly in my head because this is a subject that I obviously care about. In 2012, 13,112 women excised and 4,084 who feared being excised were living in Belgium. The number has certainly increased, but the countries of origin have not changed. These are mainly African countries: Guinea, Somalia, Egypt, Ethiopia, Côte d'Ivoire, Nigeria, Sierra Leone, Senegal, Burkina Faso and Djibouti. These women who fear for their lives leave their country and try to obtain protection in Belgium. In 2014, of the 518 cases processed, 355 were granted refugee status. Upon arrival, they are placed in collective centres where, in addition to trauma and the need for psychological follow-up, they have to overcome the stress associated with certain procedures. Some even talk about harassment. Mr. Secretary of State, I wanted to have a clear heart. Is there specific care for persons who are victims of genital mutilation? What is this follow-up? What centres are specialized in this field? Are these organizations federal or non-governmental?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic594x.u27	Honourable member, yes, the registration of female genital mutilation (FGM) is part of the medical interview for women from countries with a high prevalence of FGM. The data relating to FGM are included in the medical file and the social file of the person concerned, which is kept by the reception centre. For reception centres, there are operational guidelines for the referral of potential victims of FGM to specialized organisations. In addition, training is also provided for medical staff and social workers to recognize and care for victims of sexual violence or gender-based violence, particularly victims of FGM. Within the host network, various instruments such as manuals, brochures, illustrations and fact sheets explain the legal prohibition of FGM. A medical-social screening is systematically organised when problems have been mentioned by the asylum-seeker or identified by the social worker. An orientation to a psychologist may take place. Psychological support is provided by the specialized organizations GAMS (Group for the Abolition of Female Sexual Mutilation) and Impact. They pay attention to obtaining the necessary medical certificates. Impact also provides legal support to lawyers accompanying asylum-seekers during the proceedings. It should also be noted that, for hearings in the context of gender-based asylum applications, the CGRA designates protection officers who have received special training to conduct interviews in such cases. The two centres already mentioned are currently developing the FGM Global Project, funded by AMIF, a European fund. The project is aimed at women and girls seeking asylum, refugees who have been or are at risk of being victims of other forms of gender-based violence (forced marriage, sexual violence, etc.).), communities from countries that practice FGM and professionals in the reception and asylum sector. It develops four strategies to improve the support of the people concerned. This includes capacity-building for professional leaders, including the development of an MGF trajectory aimed at promoting a common approach to excise women in the host network, support for vulnerable groups by specialized associations, awareness-raising of communities from countries that practice FGM, and networking of actors and their expertise.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic594x.u28	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for all the information you have provided in a very precise way. I see, therefore, with you, that many things are indeed being put in place to take care, as dignifiedly as possible, of the victims of female genital mutilation.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic594x.u29	Mr President, my question concerns the speed with which humanitarian visas are issued. On 13 December it appeared that an adult girl from East Aleppo will have to wait a few months for a decision on her humanitarian visa. Her family, including underage siblings, has already been allowed to come to Belgium through family reunification. However, she is of age and needs a humanitarian visa. However, it appears that the DVZ is lagging behind, partly because student visas would have a higher priority than humanitarian visas. Moreover, it remains completely unclear what criteria you and the Foreign Affairs Office apply when granting humanitarian visas. Myria also requires more transparency in this matter. I have five questions for you. Firstly, how can you justify the fact that visa decisions concerning an emergency situation take months, while student visas are supposed to be dealt with more quickly? Is that a conscious policy? Secondly, are there any dysfunctions in the Foreign Affairs Office that lead to such lengthy treatment periods? Is there an understaff at the service that has to decide on humanitarian visas? If so, what measures will you take? Thirdly, how many of the humanitarian visas for long stays and short stays have been granted in recent years, since 2013, to adult children from whom another family member or from whom other family members under Articles 10 and 10a have been able to migrate family reunification to our country? Fourthly, are there any criteria for granting humanitarian visas in such cases? What are these criteria? Finally, are you prepared to develop, more generally, criteria for granting humanitarian visas and to publish them?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic594x.u30	Ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to clarify that a foreigner applying for a humanitarian visa is actually asking for admission to stay for more than three months in Belgium. This application shall be justified on the basis of Article 9. The Minister does not have an obligation to grant such admission, as is the case if the applicant is a student or a family member fulfilling the legal conditions. There is therefore a good reason to speed up the processing of visa applications for students, since they are automatically admitted to stay if they meet the conditions. Of course, the academic year starts when it starts. However, the examination of applications for humanitarian visas falls within my discretion. Applications for admission to stay for more than three months in Belgium for a motive other than family reunification are dealt with by the department with a few employees. They examine visa applications with a professional, academic, humanitarian or other motive. It is important to stress that, in this context, applications for humanitarian visas are mainly concerned with applicants who are no longer covered by the right of admission or authorisation to stay for more than three months in Belgium. It is a very diverse group and it is not necessarily all about an urgent nature or even a humanitarian character in the strict sense of the word. Each applicant will find a reason why his request should be dealt with urgently. The Department of Foreign Affairs respects a chronological order in order to strike a balance between the economic, academic and personal interests that play. During the months of July to November, this service receives many additional applications from students wishing to migrate to Belgium in the context of studies, but it is not the case that no visas were issued during that period on humanitarian grounds. 90 were delivered in the period July-September. So that's not right. A further 300 humanitarian visa applications are currently pending a decision. The DVZ is in the process of catching up to deal with the applications as soon as possible. Priority shall be given to the files in which agreement has already been given to other family members by the Family Reunion Service. That makes sense, and it is what you are asking or insinuating: if a family is already here and there is another application for a humanitarian visa for another family member, try to treat it as a priority. That is a rational and logical question. We do, but it does not matter to say that a student is less important than a humanitarian visa. We can talk about a humanitarian visa for an acute, life-threatening situation, but that is often not the case. Many of these people are already in Beirut, Ankara, Turkey or Jordan, for example. One must also physically move to the consulate of Belgium. In Syria, for example, we don't have one. One must always physically move, you know that story. No separate statistics are available for adult children whose other family member is migrating to Belgium under Article 10 or 10a. As mentioned above, the humanitarian reasons are numerous. This could be a single parent, an adult child, a minor brother or sister and so on. The person concerned must demonstrate the humanitarian elements himself. If these are not sufficient, the visa can be refused. When making a decision, a balance of interest is always made and the best solution for this person is examined, taking into account the general interest of the country. The answer to your last question is no, because even if criteria are made for humanitarian advice, discretion remains. If someone does not meet those future criteria, this person may still provide other humanitarian elements. Those are my answers. I think everything's clear.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic594x.u31	Mr Secretary of State, is the story of that girl from East Aleppo who has to wait a few months for a humanitarian visa, while the family has already been allowed to come to Belgium through family reunification? Or is the story wrong?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic594x.u32	I gotta tell you, I don't know what this is about.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic594x.u33	That story was published in the press. It is also on that basis that I had tabled the question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic594x.u34	I've missed that. I'd like to check for you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic594x.u35	If people have to wait months for a humanitarian visa, when they are actually entitled to it, then something is thoroughly wrong. You say that there are still about 300 applications waiting for a decision to issue a humanitarian visa. The case of that girl from Aleppo is, of course, urgent. I can't do this. You tell us that student visas do work on the basis of objective criteria. If these conditions are met, such a visa shall be issued automatically. Then it makes sense that this will go faster. All this may be true, but there is no reason to say that we have to wait months for humanitarian visas in urgent situations. It can't be. Take this to the Foreign Office. Put more staff on that. This needs to be handled much faster.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic594x.u36	Mr Secretary of State, at the beginning of December you and Prime Minister Algeria visited to improve cooperation in various areas. One of these domains is the return of Algerians without a residence permit residing in our country. That's a problem that's been dragging on for a long time. A well-functioning asylum and migration policy cannot, of course, be without its final conclusion: a firm but humane return policy. If a person is ordered to leave the territory, that must also be carried out. Contacts with Algeria have so far been very difficult when it comes to returning their nationals. That is why we are pleased that you want to address the problem now. I do have a few questions. For example, there was apparently no official re-admission agreement, as Germany does have one. I have heard that this will not happen in the future either. Rather, a number of agreements will be implemented in the coming weeks. I don't know if that happened in the meantime. What does the agreement on return to Algeria look like in concrete terms? What agreement did you just make? How will the agreements be implemented? Will the return be enforced, or will we always have to rely on Algeria's goodwill? At what time will you finalise that agreement and the agreements? Can you also explain to me why Germany has apparently managed to conclude a real readmission agreement with Algeria and why we have not yet succeeded?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic594x.u37	Mrs Lanjri, first of all, Germany has not concluded an official readmission agreement. The mandate to conclude an official readmission agreement with Algeria is in the hands of the European Commission. So no agreement has been reached with Algeria. However, it has been agreed to draw up a general text for an administrative agreement, i.e. an MOU. Germany will probably also have a MOU. This covers several aspects such as police cooperation, the fight against terrorism and the identification of persons without residence. In the first half of 2017, a new mission to Algeria is planned to take stock of the agreement and to discuss the exchange of security information. There have been good contacts. I am also very pleased that the Prime Minister has been persuaded to go with him to Algeria. That wasn't so hard, because he sees the importance of it. I have to admit that the contacts with the Algerian embassy have been better than ever since the Prime Minister's visit, even though not everything is going perfectly. We are still asking for an MOU; the contacts are significantly better. Today, Minister Lamamra is here in Brussels and will shortly be received by the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mr Reynders. Return and identification are also on the agenda. Minister Reynders will also make explicit mention of these points. Also at the end of March 2017, prior to the Easter holiday, a mission to Algiers is planned by a number of members of the top of our administration, in particular Mrs De Bolle of the federal police, Mr Raes, Mrs Mazzara and Mr Roosemont, to see if a consensus on a text can be found, hopefully signed in 2017. That's the ambition. We're working on that. When we bite into something, we don't unload quickly.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic594x.u38	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic594x.u39	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, the Stay Act provides for a number of exceptions to the possibility for the Foreign Office to terminate the right of residence of a third-country relative of a Belgian or Union citizen. The legislation states that DVZ cannot terminate the right of residence if the marriage, registered partnership or joint establishment has lasted at least three years at the start of the legal proceedings for the dissolution or annulment of the marriage or the termination of the registered partnership or joint establishment, of which at least one year in the Empire. Recent case-law of the Council of Foreign Ministers shows that these hypotheses cannot be applied cumulatively, but each corresponds to a specific grounds for termination. This means that the DVZ cannot terminate the right of residence of a spouse or partner if he actually lives separate from the Belgian or Union citizen. This can only be done if the marriage is dissolved or annulled and the registered partnership is terminated. The possibility to terminate the right of residence because family members are no longer jointly established is applicable only to relatives in ascending or descending line. This view of the Council of Foreign Ministers is consistent with the settled case-law of the Court of Justice and with the case-law of the Constitutional Court. To date, however, the DVZ continues to wrongly terminate residence when these people are actually separated and no longer jointly established, while their marriage has not yet been dissolved or annulled or their partnership has not yet been terminated. Mr Secretary of State, I have the following questions. Are you aware of this course of action of the DVZ? On what basis does the DVZ base itself on this practice? Do you think it is appropriate to act in line with the above-mentioned case law in future, or is there a need for legislative clarification here?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic594x.u40	Mr President, Mrs Gabriels, the Department of Foreign Affairs applies the interpretation of the concept of "or there is no longer a joint establishment', which is re-established in Article 32b, §1, 4 of the 1980 Law, judgment of the Constitutional Court of 26 September 2013. We apply it very strictly. According to the Court, the concept of "or there is no longer a joint establishment' does not refer to the spouse or partner of a citizen of the Union who is himself a citizen of the Union, i.e. not to two Union citizens. The fact that there is no joint establishment can therefore only be a reason for the family members of a Union citizen who is himself a citizen of the Union to end the stay, not for third country nationals. That's the interpretation. I had to inform myself about this too. After all, it is rather complicated, like many things related to family reunification. The chapter on family reunification is, as far as readability is concerned, the most difficult chapter of the migration code, which, in my humble opinion, is rather complicated. I understand that there may be a parliamentary initiative on family reunification. So that might be something to look at again. Sometimes it can happen strangely.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic594x.u41	Thank you for your reply, Mr Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic594x.u42	Mr President, when I came in, I noticed that a question from Mr De Vriendt had just been answered. That question dealt with about the same problem as my question. It seems to me a pity that both questions were not merged. I have a number of questions as there is confusion about the figures on the correct number of regularization applications in recent years, in particular when they have now begun to fall. More than the number of applications, it is also important to obtain an overview of the final number of approvals and refusals, and of the number of multiple applications. There is also a need for a proper overall overview of the existing backlog. Allow me, Mr Secretary of State, not to repeat all the questions in order to buy time. You have received the written version of my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic594x.u43	(...) [[Not containing micro]] .
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic594x.u44	I tabled this question as an oral question. A few figures have been given just now. I have listed the questions about figures in the written version of my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic594x.u45	I don't have any numbers. I don't have any answers. I refer to Article 122b of the Rules of Procedure. Those figures can be consulted on the DVZ website. All relevant statistics on humanitarian and medical regularisations can also be found there. If you'd like to submit a written question, I'd like to give you those numbers, but they're just online.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic594x.u46	Not all years are mentioned there. My last question is not a question of numbers. How far behind are we at the moment? I'd like a split between the humanitarian and medical regularizations. How do you propose to deal with this delay?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic594x.u47	That too is a question of figures, but I have already replied to that question. Less than 1 000 medical regularisations took place. I have also said that it is the intention of this year to eliminate the backlog completely. According to the current tight timing that we set yesterday afternoon, it should be possible to achieve this in September or October.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic594x.u48	I will submit my question in writing. You are talking about a delay of 1 000 files for medical regularization.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic594x.u49	Less than 1,000. I don't know the numbers by heart.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic594x.u50	Humanitarian voice?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic594x.u51	Everything's almost up-to-date. I promised this would happen by the end of the year, but if we can continue to work like this, everything will be updated in September or October. This will be the first time since 1980.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic594x.u52	Thank you. I will put my question in writing.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic594x.u53	Mr President, Secretary of State, in the context of the discussion of the 2017 policy letter, you provided additional information on the future closed housing units in the center 127a. I have several questions about that. My first question is about building the units. Earlier you announced to build at least five family units and made plans to build five additional units at a later date. How many units will be built concretely? How are the plans coming along? What are we supposed to imagine in closed units? Is it some kind of prefab housing of the type of mobile homes, or something else? How many rooms do they have? Is there play facilities provided? To what extent is the site closed with residential units closed from the rest of the center 127bis? Is there a separation and, if so, how did it build up? Are there any possible contacts between the families in the different units? Will staff be provided for running the units? What background and professionalism should these staff have? I am thinking of educators, teachers, doctors and so on. How much are the costs per unit of residence? What are the costs of running the units? I am thinking of maintenance costs, fixed costs and personnel costs. How is all this budgeted? Is there a contribution from the European Return Fund? If so, how much is it exactly? As far as the target group is concerned, is it true that the closed units are only intended for families who have disappeared from the return homes and are not asylum seekers and for non-asylum border families? Is it true that the units are not intended for Dublin families, asylum seekers at the border? Will it be only families that have already disappeared, or is it sufficient that there is such a risk? Who makes the analysis of that risk of hiding? Who takes the detention decision? Who decides whether a particular family is being imprisoned in a return home or in the new closed family unit? What are the criteria and who does she decide? Will only families which are already removable be placed in the sense that they already have the right documents to leave? Will the possibility of splitting up families be limited to situations in which the child is in danger? Will the juvenile court be called upon to do so, as the juvenile court decides whether appropriate measures have been taken to protect a child? The Constitutional Court, in its judgment No. 166/203 that a number of elements should be taken into account when implementing the closed units. Firstly, a family member must be able to leave the unit daily and without prior authorisation. How will that be implemented? What will one have access to if one leaves the unit? Secondly, the retention of parents must be carried out in such a way that the children do not suffer from it. The UN Committee on Children's Rights stated that detention of children for migration reasons is always contrary to the principle of the child's greater interest. How will you ensure that the disadvantage is limited? Thirdly, children should not be subject to the same retention regime as parents. How will you put that into practice? Fourthly, the unit must be adapted to the child, which means that minors may only be detained as a last resort and for as short a period as possible, and families are given separate accommodation with sufficient privacy and education. How will you put that into practice? How will you ensure that they can possibly go to external schools? You regularly state that the detention will take place for as short a time as possible. Can you clarify what you really mean by this? Is there a target period? How do you define that period as short as possible? With regard to control and monitoring, how will the control of the closed units be carried out? Will a system of accreditation be used? Who's gonna do that accreditation? Is that the DVZ itself? Will statistics be published on a regular basis? What external body will be able to check the units in addition? As far as alternatives to detention are concerned, will the construction of the closed units be accompanied by the optimisation and additional financial support of the so-called alternatives to detention?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic594x.u54	Mrs De Coninck, you know it or you do not know it, but I myself have worked for years as a scientific assistant for the group in Parliament. I once drafted a parliamentary question for Chris Vandenbroeke, who was a professor at the time, but unfortunately died. The question was addressed to Mrs Vanderpoorten, Minister of Education at the time. I had prepared at least twenty sub-questions, but Chris Vandenbroeke never received a decent answer because of Mrs Vanderpoorten. She replied to Mr Vandenbroeke that he could ask her any question, but that if he was going to ask 20 questions at the same time, he would better submit a written question. In passing, pour la petite histoire. I appreciate diligent employees and they're certainly not bad questions. Unfortunately, I do not have an answer to all 20 questions. I can give you some elements, and if you are not entirely satisfied with my answer, you can submit a written question. Then I will personally see to it that there is a full response. Five houses are provided. After an evaluation period, it is intended to place five additional housing units. No specific timing has yet been set for this. I just requested the exact cost. This is the responsibility of the Government of the Buildings. I hope I can get you that information today. The cost of running the closed centres shall be calculated by analogy with the cost of operating the closed centres. The units are financed by the Government of the Buildings. No European Return Fund funds have been allocated for this purpose. As far as the technical characteristics of the homes are concerned, this is not a type of mobile home, they are of a more sustainable nature. There are three houses for six persons and two houses for eight persons. They each have a living room, an open kitchen, a separate toilet, a bathroom with shower, a storage room and two to three bedrooms. In the long term there will also be play facilities. The houses come on an already fenced site next to the repatriation center 127bis. There will be a direct access via a new gate along the parking lot of this center. For reasons of privacy, the necessary planting and shielding cloths will be applied. The families may be in contact with each other. Contact with the residents of the closed centre will be virtually impossible or still very limited. I also visited the site myself and made the remark that it is not meant that they can see each other, or rather as little as possible. For the running of these units, the recruitment of some 20 staff is envisaged. Attention will be paid to the educational framework. Places are provided for administrative assistant, coach, psychologist, teacher, educator, safety counselor and nurse. Since the residences will belong to the center 170bis, there will also be services available there, such as the doctor associated with the center, the maintenance company and the collaboration with the psychiatry, dentist and general hospital. In addition, collaborations will be developed with bodies such as a pediater and Child and Family. As far as the target group is concerned, the following. The existing houses in Zulte, Tubeke, Sint-Gillis-Waas, Tielt and Bevekom continue to exist and continue to be used as is currently the case. Illegal families with underage children will still initially have to stay in existing housing units, as I have said on several occasions. The closed housing modules should have a dissuasive effect on families wishing to escape from the open housing units. Despite the individual track accompaniment by the coaches, certain families withdraw from this accompaniment over time. After all, they can leave the house freely. There is therefore a need for a solution for families who have withdrawn from counseling and who are reintercepted and effectively detained for forced return. Upon arrival in an open housing unit, each family will be informed that it may be transferred to a closed housing unit after possible escape from the open housing unit. It goes without saying that their return from a closed housing unit will then be further organised. The DVZ will thus be able to hold them in such homes if the families have deliberately withdrawn from the return procedure by choosing to disappear from the return homes in order to avoid an effective return, but are subsequently intercepted again. So it's very clear. I have always said so, even in the course of the investigation debate at the very beginning of the legislature. I never said anything else. The aim is to unite the family. In the best interests of the child, it may be decided to exceptionally split the family. Where appropriate, a juvenile judge may be called in if this proves necessary, which may, where appropriate, place the child in an adapted establishment. The practical impact of reception is currently being prepared, taking into account the observations of the Constitutional Court and all national and international provisions for both legislation and practical organisation. In this context, I am thinking, for example, of the right to family life, the right to privacy and the European Convention on Human Rights. The DVZ aims to keep the duration of the determination for each dossier as short as possible, but this depends on each individual file and the cooperation of the person concerned plays an important role of course. Monitoring and monitoring will be possible through existing regulations. As an alternative to the detention of families with minor children in a closed center, the overall functioning of the FIT homes with the open housing units and the coaching in their own homes will be maintained. So there is the FIT-house with the open living unit and then there is the coaching in your own home. That alternative is still being applied.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic594x.u55	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for answering the many questions. I have asked many questions to get more information, because one question can also be answered with one sentence. I think it is okay that families should not be housed in a closed unit until they have first withdrawn from supervision in an open unit. I have another suggestion. It might not be bad to set up an advisory group or monitoring group to monitor and monitor these issues from different perspectives. So you're not on your own.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic594x.u56	Mr Secretary of State, in my question No. 12310 I asked you on 19 July 2016 to pay close attention to the situation of minors, and in particular to the school situation, when implementing your phasing-out plan for the reception of asylum seekers. Around the end of the year, however, stories emerged where the transfer of minors took place in a rather unheard-of way. For example, a young lrakee from Sint Niklaas was transferred to Boortmeerbeek, without being able to say goodbye to his classmates. Such cases have also been reported in Ghent, at the Reno pontoon. You are right to pay attention to the fact that the transfers take place as much as possible during the holiday period, but the short period before the move makes this psychologically very burdensome. In addition, we are getting reports that there are also transfers outside school holidays. In addition, transfers of minors would sometimes take place as a criminal measure. In these cases too, the young person suddenly disappears from the school without being able to say goodbye and without ensuring the flow of information on the pupil's learning path. Firstly, the three-day period during which a move must take place is extremely short. Are you willing to make sure that there is more time between the announcement of the transfer and the move itself? Secondly, how will the transfer and move be framed? Is attention paid to the individual situation of families? Is the school involved in the transfer? If no, why not? It seems that this is not always the case; sometimes schools themselves are confronted with the surprise of a move. Thirdly, is it true that there are transfers and relocations outside the school holidays? How many cases were involved in the months of September to December 2016? In what cases is it decided to transfer minors outside the holidays? Fourthly, in how many cases has a minor been transferred as a criminal measure in the last year? Was this about unaccompanied minors? Or did the minor's family have to move with him if necessary? What criteria are used for such criminal transfers? Are there any indications that such transfers have a beneficial effect on the behaviour of the minor concerned? Fifthly, can you give an overview of the places for unaccompanied minors who have disappeared in collective centres over the past six months? I would have liked to have gotten the number of places per center. I have the same question for the places that will disappear for the next six months. It is then specifically about the places for unaccompanied minors. Finally, is it true that some asylum seekers from Zwijndrecht, Deinze and Knesselare have been transferred to emergency shelters? How do you account for that? How many people are we talking about? How many of these are minors? Does emergency care meet the same standards as regular care?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic594x.u57	Mr De Vriendt, it is a very long answer and contains interesting figures on disciplinary transfers. I can give it to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic594x.u58	If you hand over the answer and do not mention it here in committee, it will not be included in the report either. Then it only concerns information, which is given directly. Perhaps you could explain some of it and then give the rest.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic594x.u59	I'll read it to you. The three-day period within which the move must take place is extremely short. The three working days period is the target period that has been used for years and is applied for all moving movements as for transit to LOI and move to LTP. (...) all short departures due to efficient location management. The duration of the reservation period has an impact on the availability of the places. In other words, the longer the departure time, the less available places, the more space is needed and therefore more expensive. Booking longer places is pay not to use. In the event of a closure of the centre, residents will always be informed as soon as possible about the move. The removal takes place only after contact between the reception structures concerned, so that the arrival of the asylum seeker concerned can be properly prepared. The individual file of families is always taken into account in each move. The school situation of schoolchildren is therefore taken into account. This will be done as closely as possible in consultation with the school concerned and the parents of the accompanied minors will be taken into account. Is it true that there are transfers and relocations outside the school holidays? Transfer of reception centre may take place for the following reasons: transfer recognized refugee, assignment LOI, transfer high degree of protection, allocation LOI, transfer disciplinary, assignment collective, transfer OTP, Dublin allocation collective, transfer adapted place, assignment collective LOI, transfer winding-up, assignment collective. The transfer and removal of minors is organised as much as possible during school holidays. Exceptionally, minors are transferred outside school holidays where there is no alternative for procedural or operational reasons. In the case of a transfer due to the phasing-out of the shelter, the families concerned with school children are only transferred during school holidays. It is therefore not appropriate for children to be transferred outside school holidays in the event of termination. I have already answered a question on the subject of Mrs De Coninck. Also yesterday there was a commotion about it in De Standaard and Het Nieuwsblad: the situation was found scandalous, but I would point out that it was someone whose family was expelled. Now, it must go to an OTP place; it must no longer be in the shelter. Do we have to put in a system where we let that person stay until the school vacation? We can't do that. The right of refuge is over. Those people have been brought to an end. They must leave the shelter and make room for other families, as is still the case in Brussels every day. There is a lot of talk about this, things that are often far off the truth. In September 2016, a total of 30 to 40 families with school children and NBMVs were moved outside the framework of the phasing-out plan. Fedasil and I are very sensitive to such situations, which of course we always try to avoid. But we're not talking about being brought to an end! It is about asylum seekers who are being transferred, for example, in the context of the dismantling of a place of reception, which the people concerned themselves cannot do anything about. If an institution is closed, it is a decision of the government. It is obvious that we try to do the transfer in a good way, for example during the school holidays. I also understand the complaint that a toddler should be able to say goodbye to his school buddies. Well, he's done. I want to do all that, but goodbye will never be fun. I don't know if that kindergarten kid can take all that. I've got kids at home, my seven-year-old daughter might understand something like that, but the three-year-old wouldn't. I would like to go along with all sorts of suggestions, but it must also remain rational and decisions must also be dared to be taken. If not, they keep turning around. A minor who has gone to trial should not go to another shelter like Boortmeerbeek; he simply has to go back to his homeland. That's a whole different story. The phenomenon of sanctions is by no means a new phenomenon. It is part of the daily pedagogic framework of NBMVs or other children. In coordination with the reception partner Croix Rouge/Red Cross, common guidelines on NBMV's disciplinary approach were formulated at the end of 2014. The decision to impose a sanction shall be taken in an objective and impartial manner and shall state the reasons on which it is based. It is also a decision of the team, validated by the management. Other proportionate and remedial measures are taken in advance, for example the time-out project in Saint-Truiden. In addition to the collective local evaluation, each transfer application shall also be submitted to the respective headquarters of Fedasil or another host operator. Interregional disciplinary transfers are avoided as much as possible and are therefore very rare. In the period from January to November 2016, 475 NBMVs were transferred with the type of disciplinary transfer. So that's a lot. In the period from January to November 2016, 371 family minors were transferred to the type of disciplinary transfer. A total of 850 minors were transferred, which is very much so. The list of centres is given in a table. I'd like to deliver it to you, Mr. Secretary. Is it true that some persons from the shelters of Zwijndrecht, Deinze and Knesselare have been transferred to emergency shelters? All emergency shelters were closed in 2016. No residents were transferred to the emergency shelters as part of the closure of Zwijndrecht, Deinze or Knesselare. So that's not true.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic594x.u60	Mr Secretary of State, I will read your answer again later, if you will allow me. I have two comments to make. First of all, letting preschoolers say goodbye to their classmates is always important, even if it is about preparing for expulsion. That should always be organised, because it can help in the process. So we must always allow that. Secondly, the disciplinary transfer as a penal measure is indeed quite common. I'm afraid of the number. I also wonder to what extent that is effective. Does such a penalty measure help the person's behaviour in the new place? I'll look up the rules and the criteria again.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic594x.u61	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic594x.u62	Yeah, there are steps. The question is also why so many minors end up in that last stage, in terms of framework and guidance. I don't make a statement, but I think it's a very high figure.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic594x.u63	I have to tell you, I'm also a little shocked by the high number. Of course, the fact that 371 families were subject to disciplinary transfer does not mean that the children have done something wrong. It may be that the father or the mother misbehaved. After a lengthy discussion in committee, we added two possibilities to the system of disciplinary measures: the definitive exclusion and the retention of living or daily allowances. It was also explained very clearly at the time that this really is done in consultation and that this is not just happening. There are always several steps. A transfer is not done directly. Anyway, it's true it's a very high number.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic594x.u64	Mr De Vriendt, I have received a written, more comprehensive text with more information, figures and dates. I propose that I deliver it to the committee, which will send it around to all committee members, making the information transparent for everyone in the committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic594x.u65	Mr President, had Mr Lanjri not asked to wait a little longer with these questions?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic594x.u66	Then I need the agreement of all the questioners. The Secretary of State has to leave at noon. If everyone agrees to this, we can wait on this item on the agenda.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic594x.u67	She also lets me know that postponing to next week apparently doesn't make any sense because she's going to be abroad.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic594x.u68	Then there is no point in postponing and we can now deal with these questions better.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic594x.u69	Mr Secretary of State, De Standaard reported in January that families with children are in some cases forced to repatriate with so-called special flights. These flights are in principle reserved for criminals and repatriations with a risk of aggression. Inspection reports, which the newspaper obtained through the law on public administration, show that families are sometimes put on such a flight together with criminals. Security measures, police supervision and sudden forced departure make such flights a traumatic experience for children. In what circumstances do you consider it justified to repatriate families with children via a special flight? In such cases, why can't the expulsion be done through normal channels? Is the framework of special flights with children different from that without children? In what way? I'd like a detailed answer. How many cases of forced repatriation with minors have been there annually since 2011? How many of these cases were there criminals on the same plane? Which were the destinations of these flights? I shall then come to my second question. How many special flights with minors were organised on board since 1 September 2016? To which destinations? How many Special Flights with "Depubuchas', which in principle do not require escort, took place since the same date of 1 September 2016 and to which destination?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic594x.u70	Mr. Secretary of State, De Standaard has issued a series on the special flights. In this context, I have a few questions and perhaps also suggestions for adjustment. Firstly, you indicated that a special flight should only be used as a last resort. You said that the road map of the Vermeersch Commission on Forced Return is the most important guide and that this plan is followed as much as possible. In particular, you stated that a special flight is a final stage and is not normally used for families, unless the family indicates that it will resist or when it is a childish family. As far as the children's family in particular is concerned, I wonder to what extent the Vermeersch Committee's roadmap is being violated. Is it correct that a special flight can be used for a family, just because it is a child-rich family, without resistance, for example? What justification do you use in these cases to skip the previous steps of the Vermeersch plan? Secondly, on Twitter, you stated that the fact that a father is known for heavy domestic violence can justify this. To what extent will the best interests of the child be taken into account? At least a child in a situation of heavy domestic violence is already on the radar in Belgium. How is the child's interest assured? Thirdly, do you support the call made by Professor Parmentier, then member of the Vermeersch Committee, for a standing committee which, in accordance with the so-called OPCAT Convention, controls the removal policy? Such a body could include representatives of civil society and independent experts, as well as representatives of the services and institutions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic594x.u71	Mr President, Secretary of State De Standaard published on 16 January a large-scale investigation, which my colleagues have already mentioned, into the fact that families with children are being evicted on flights chartered by the Defence. It has long been known that your creed is the repatriation of criminals tried by the courts and denied asylum by these special flights for obvious security reasons. However, according to the inspection reports obtained by the Flemish newspaper, on the basis of the Act of 11 April 1994 on the publicity of the administration, it appears that these families were travelling with the same criminals. It goes without saying that this experience, as Mr. De Vriendt, can be terribly traumatic for these children. Therefore, Mr Secretary of State, I have questions that are complementary to those that my colleagues have already asked. Why didn't you answer the questions asked by De Standaard in full transparency? Why did De Standaard have to use CADA to obtain this information? Can you describe the decision-making process that encourages your services to use these military flights for the repatriation of families with children? What legal or regulatory framework do you follow? How many children (minors of age) have been expelled for each of the last 5 years and to which countries of destination? Could you please tell me whether specific accompanying measures for these families are being taken on board Defence flights? Do families travel to a different location than other so-called criminal passengers? Could you give me a detailed description of the procedures followed? Could you explain to me the average cost of chartering these military aircraft per km travelled compared to chartering a civilian flight?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic594x.u72	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am glad that we can discuss this. I have reviewed the number of special flights carried out with families with children since 2001. Over the years special flights have taken place among all governments of all colours with families with children, sometimes very large families, with or without public law enforcement. So this is not something I have entered, but it has always existed. That's what I'd like to point out. I would also like to point out that it is not about using a military aircraft. I know this sounds really strong. I have also read that a number of opposition members, opponents of this government, are talking about organising the deportation of children on military aircraft. Words make reality. You don't have to tell me. I know what I'm talking about. It's about an Airbus and an Embraer. These are aircraft used for civil aviation. These are aircraft that are part of the so-called white fleet of Defense. Mr De Vriendt will know that very well, because he was and is also a member of the Committee on Defence. The only difference between a civil aviation aircraft and a military aircraft is that at the end of the wing there is a Belgian flag and that a symbol of Belgium and blue stars have been placed on the aircraft to show that it is an aircraft belonging to Defence under a leasing contract. Everyone knows that story. We don't use C-130s, we don't use khaki-colored large transport planes to transport people like animals and, so to speak, throw them out after landing. That's what I think the truth is violently assaulting. In the morning after that publication, I could not get rid of the impression that this was the image that people deliberately wanted to create about how inhuman my services and myself are when it comes to the repatriation of families with children. The repatriation of families with children is a very difficult issue. That has always been difficult, but such flights also took place in 2001, 2002 and 2003, when the biggest critics of today were part of the federal government. I think it is important to stress that. Families with children in illegal residence, like other illegal residents, should also leave the territory. If these families do not follow the orders they received to leave the territory independently and oppose their return, it should be possible to force these families to be removed. In all cases, there was a good reason not to remove on a line flight. Of course, that is always better, but if that is not possible, we must look for other solutions. The families concerned had the opportunity to return voluntarily, but did not. For large families there is often no place on a scheduled flight because of the restrictions imposed by the airlines. Previous attempts on a line flight have failed due to resistance, violence and shouting, which have resulted in the termination of those removal attempts. These are families who, during the stay in the accommodation unit, immediately indicate that they will resist during the removal, families consisting of one or more family members, including breaches of public order, minutes, arrest orders, convictions, prison sentences. In the first instance, the responsibility lies with the parents to become an independent follow-up to the GVV. They can do so independently or ask for support from the IOM or the DVZ. For the forced removal of families who refuse to comply with the BGV, alternatives to detention are used, namely the guidance to return by the DVZ in their own home and from the FIT residential units. Initially, this guidance by the DVZ is still focused on the return via a line flight without escort. Even return with support is still possible. Only when those families fail to respond and do not show up at the airport of departure or escape from FIT, an attempt by a scheduled aircraft is broken down due to resistance or the family immediately indicates that they will not leave or resist when they are removed on a scheduled flight, will the removal be carried out on a special flight. What other alternatives with the effective departure as a result had you thought of? What alternatives, which the DVZ has not yet applied, do you see? In principle, unaccompanied minors are not forced to be removed via the DVZ. Unaccompanied minors may be driven back under certain strict conditions and with the consent of the guardian. So that is not something that we go over lightly. I would like to point that out. It's not like we're just giving permission to do that. You should also know that, as with my predecessors, when a family with children is evicted through a special flight, that expulsion is discussed in my cabinet. It is not that the administration decided to do a special flight with a family with seven children in the dive, and then send an e-mail to the secretary of state that the flight left well. That's not how it works. That is being discussed and, of course, I am going to give my opinion on it. It has also happened in the recent past that I said it could not go on for me. It's also happened that I say it could go on for me. The consideration I make is important, but it's not that it's impossible. We are doing this wisely and in any case not for unaccompanied minors. We're not forced to do that. Only under very strict conditions, with the consent of the guardian, can this be done, but I do not think this has happened for the last two years. I should check that out. The framework for the special flights is done by the federal police of the airport of Zaventem. They are responsible for the escorts and one or more members of the M-POD team, i.e. psychologists, social assistants and so on. As far as possible, female family members and children are assisted by female escorts. The DVZ provides for an immigration officer and a doctor. If the pick-up is done in the FIT house, the coach of the DVZ will be present. He succeeded the family during their stay in the housing unit. There are also always two members of the AIG, the General Police Inspectorate, to inspect during the flight. Control of disposal already exists, the control in the effective operation of flights by the AIG. In the case of flights with Frontex, there is sometimes an observer from Frontex. The Schengen Evaluation Return Commission shall monitor the application of the return guidelines in the case of removal by special flights and the removal of vulnerable persons such as families with minor children. In 2015, Belgium was audited and no comments or recommendations were made regarding the removal of families. A special Schengen evaluation committee which has been in existence for years and which, in my view, is also doing a proper job, has vetted our entire system in 2015 and has not made any comments or recommendations. That was okay, that was right, that was humane in our country. I have a table of the number that has been applied. Different types of special flights exist. Their cost varies according to their function. Special flight to the Balkans, Embraer aircraft to drive up to ten people, plus escorts and other escorts – around 12,000 euros in total. Special Flight Embraer to the departure airport for a JRO (Joint Return Operations) from Frontex: 8 000 to 13,000 euros, of which 60 % are reimbursed by Frontex. Special flight to the DRC, organised by Belgium and coordinated by Frontex through an Airbus: about 120,000 euros. In the event that the Office offers the possibility to other European countries, one can receive a refund of 100% from Frontex. If the flight is coordinated by the Defense, it's free. If one trip is to be added, the Agency pays 22 000 euros. In 2015, as an indication, the costs of commercial flights to accompany a person are as follows. To the DRC without escort, 1,500 euros; with escort, 9,316 euros. To Serbia, without escort, 1,000 euros; with escort, 4,440 euros. To Albania, without escort, 1 000 euros; with escort, 4 857 euros. To Georgia, without escort, 1,000 euros; with escort, 11,000 euros. To Kosovo, without escort, 623 euros; with escort, 3,300 euros. To Nigeria, without escort, 2,100 euros; with escort, 15,000 euros. If there is serious intra-family violence within the family, especially to the children, the competent authorities are absolutely informed to defend the child's interests. In these cases, in consultation with the competent authorities, efforts are being made to find a lasting solution for the family. This solution may include seeking care for part of the family and/or providing further support to the family in the country of origin. That could be family therapy, or a safe house. In certain cases, the choice is to remove the family separately. I had to do that last year. In that particular case, the man committed severe domestic violence against the woman, not the children. The woman didn't want to be removed with her husband. All the way to the end, she wanted to. After all, we had separated her, even if that was on her own question. The man was a tough case with a serious criminal record. We said it couldn't be done, because it would get completely out of hand if there was an incident on the plane. In situations like this one is not just going to decide to put them all together. It is being considered and discussed internally, with our teams and their psychologists. The intra-family violence can also be a reason to hold its perpetrator in a closed center, so separated from the rest of the family, as we had to do then. Facts of intra-family violence are reported by DVZ to the police and justice department if they occur in a residential unit or if they are not yet known to the Justice Department. It is up to the courts to take the necessary measures against the offender. It's not up to me. I'll be sure to see to it. In the event that I mentioned earlier, I also locked the person in the closed centre. The rest of the family stayed in the housing units. That was in 2015 and it was a family from Macedonia with two children. Last year I did three, two in 2015, in 2014 there were none. I've got a list here that I'd like to get you. To conclude, in my view that story is not correctly represented and it is a very well-considered choice, which is strongly framed and carried out correctly by professionals working on it day and night: social assistants, doctors, supervisors, the general inspection that controls the police's work on those flights. Such situations are handled in a very humane way by psychologists and child psychologists. There are no international reports reporting that we would violate the rules. It's said that there are criminals among those families. It is possible that when a family takes a plane to Albania, there is also a sent-away criminal on that plane; that chance is not even that small. Last year, 1 500 criminals from prison were directly mounted and returned to Albania, many of whom were sent to Albania. A few months ago, I took a plane, a regular line flight, to Albania because I had to make some contacts there and on that plane there were also some criminals and, by the way, families with children. The criminal is not next to the families in such cases. In an Airbus, the criminal is separated from the police. For example, if a convicted pedophile is sent back, then of course we do not put it next to the children of a family, we are not crazy either. Anyone who is sent back to prison after a sexual record for minors can also sit on a regular flight and sit next to a child, if that place is booked by chance. The flight to Albania takes two and a half hours, so one should not live with it. So I would ask you to look at things a little bit in perspective. Insinuating that we are doing everything we can to get people back, to get them out of here, that we are putting people on a C130 plane and that we are deporting children, come on, let's try to imagine things properly.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic594x.u73	We're coming to the answers now.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic594x.u74	Mr Secretary of State, for the sake of clarity, does the table that you will make available to the committee secretariat also answer my supplementary questions? My final question was how many special flights with minors on board were organised since 1 September 2016.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic594x.u75	Yes, you will be able to see that table for yourself. It's a good table, you'll be pleased.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic594x.u76	I'll come to my answer. I believe that no one from the opposition has spoken of a C-130. Nobody. You are insinuating that we have said so, but no one has mentioned it. We have said that we were talking about special flights with serious security measures, police supervision, sudden forced departure, and we referred to the inspection reports which are very critical of these repatriations. Those reports refer to children being handcuffed and there is even a case where a child was taken from the mother just before departure. Furthermore, these reports state that a special flight is increasingly being carried out before an attempt was made to proceed to an expulsion with a normal line flight. This is very important. This must always be the last step. I've been paying attention during your answer. On the question of what the reasons may be for using a special flight you have listed a number of things, but you can choose from them at random. One of these reasons is enough to put such a family with children on a special flight. In our view, this should always be the last step. One must always try to make an expulsion with a line flight. Apparently, this isn't happening anymore. This goes against common sense and against the recommendations of the past. An expulsion is a traumatic event anyway. A special flight, with all the frame around it, is all the more so. You've been on such a military plane before. I'm talking about the Airbus or the Embraer. I've done this myself before. I remember no police supervision there, no security measures, no forced departure. I don't remember criminals sitting next to us. Comparing both is a bit torn from the pot. The existing inspection reports are therefore very critical and bear witness to things that we do not think can be done. You say that this has happened in the past. That is possible, I have not seen any inspection reports on those flights under previous governments, but the question remains what you are going to do about it. I have actually heard very little about this, Mr Secretary of State. What are you going to do about the abuses on the special flights described in the critical inspection reports? Are you gonna fix that? Are you going to make sure this doesn't happen again? I have not heard you say much about this, and I am very concerned about that. After all, it means that you are not problematic about the current situation and that we may have to read such critical inspection reports again next year. That is unacceptable to me.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic594x.u77	You have said something very beautiful, Mr Secretary of State. I hope you always have it in your head. Words make reality. You often use a lot of words, even in other contexts, to create a reality. That is why you often get such questions, and also to some extent distrust. I often hear that the pot blames the kettle that it sees black. Thank you for your answer. I would like to add that I understand that you are opposed to a follow-up committee. We have tabled a legislative proposal to that effect because the Vermeersch Committee asked for it. We do not do that from a negative point of view, for the sake of clarity. It is constructive; it is about finding ways to do better together, but also taking responsibility together for the way things are organized. You take the attitude of a regent a little bit. I understand that. I would like to believe that you personally monitor the repatriation of children's families and want to provide tailor-made services, but it is also important that there is more transparency about this. Also to gain more support about how it happens and for who it is organised.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic594x.u78	Mr Secretary of State, you did not answer my first question as to why you did not answer the questions posed by De Standaard in full transparency. I see today that it is so easy for you to transmit this data right now. Why all these dungeons? If you had nothing to hide at the time...
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic594x.u79	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic594x.u80	Of course, but the Standaard has been asking you the same questions for months.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic594x.u81	What I give to De Standaard is something between my cabinet and De Standaard. Are we going to decide what to give journalists? If the committee asks for anything, I'll give you correct information. We're not going to have a Liesbeth Homans debate here like we did last week. I give all the information correctly and I've never done anything else.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic594x.u82	Mr Secretary of State, I would simply point out that it is much easier to transmit, as you have just done, the data we asked for when a respectable press body has been asking for them for months and has had to call on CADA to obtain them. In addition, you refer to the repatriation of children via aircraft chartered by the Defence in 2001, 2002 and 2003, that is, at the time of a Mr. Antoine Duquesne of the PRL, during which the N-VA did not even exist. It was a specific jurisdiction of the Asile Ministry at the time. Some criticisms emerged in 1999 at the time of the first Verhofstadt government, especially from the ECOLO and GROEN ministers! Mrs Durant in particular, following the collective expulsion, including of children, of Gypsies via military apparatus. This was also the result of the murder of Semira Adamu in the Vermeersch Commission. There was no knowledge of the Green Deputy Prime Ministers of collective expulsion. Yes, there was, it was within the jurisdiction of then-Minister PRL Duquesne. Let's be clear, it's not because you jump into the mud puddle, and you mess with others, that you will be cleaner! For all the reasons explained by my colleague De Vriendt, it is clear that children's trips alongside criminals, on a specific military plane, even from the white fleet, are unacceptable to a democratic state! It's as simple as that!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic594x.u83	Mrs Lanjri, would you like to reply?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic594x.u84	I have not been able to ask my question, but I have heard part of the answer and the replies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic594x.u85	However, I would like to make it clear that, according to my information, the information requested by De Standaard was requested from the Home Office and not from the Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration. It concerns the reports of the internal audit of the police and the AIG in the context of those removals. You shouldn't ask me that question. I wasn't even asked to do that. That was about police reports. You're with the wrong excellency when it comes to that. You say "according to my information" and "I've checked it out." It is very good that you ask questions but figures do not lie: there have been no collective expulsions during that period. That has nothing to do with collective. I can only conclude from the figures, which do not lie, that during that period more families with children with special flights were evicted than they are now. That's unmistakably true. That's good to make clear. I understand you're saying you can't do this, that it's a step too far. That's your right. That is a clear position that you will never accept. If you are going to be in a government in the future, that is clear. You can't say it didn't happen back then. That wasn't collective, it was individual. Whether Mrs Durant was aware of it or not, many things have happened at the time that Mrs Aelvoet was not aware of, not to talk about the Minimis to Nepal. That is all very relative. I very much appreciate Mrs De Coninck's speech, but you say that there are abuses in these expulsions. There was a European Commission in 2015 that reviewed the case and made no comments or recommendations on this issue. What do you mean, "disorders"? It is easy to say that there are abuses, that things are frantic and that these people are treated like animals. Personally, I think that's a real violation of the truth. That's not right, not correct. I can only say that it is clear that we will continue to do so in specific cases, exceptionally, with a very good framework, in the most humane way possible. I have seen that your bill on the follow-up committee of Professor Vermeersch, Mrs De Coninck, is pending. The majority will take a position on this when it comes to the committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic594x.u86	The last word is for Members of Parliament. Mr De Vriendt, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic594x.u87	Mr Secretary of State, the official inspection reports, which De Standaard has finally been able to look at after a very long time and lengthy procedures, do not lie. They are clear and should encourage you to take action and to make some changes.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic594x.u88	Mr. Secretary of State is no longer accustomed to no longer being a parliamentarian and therefore does not get used to not having the last word. It's hard. Mr Secretary of State, it is clear – I repeat and I will repeat it loudly until you hear it – that the Green Ministers were not aware of these figures. Moreover, if they had been, they would have done everything possible to prevent the expulsion of children. I would remind you that when the Greens first took part in the federal government, a major regularization had taken place. And, visibly, these collective expulsions were the political price to be paid for the Greens for what they obtained in relation to the rights of foreigners as no one had ever obtained in a government before.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-15-54-commissie-ic594x.u89	We are now a dozen minutes later than announced. The list of questions will be further discussed next week and probably supplemented by new questions.
