ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-01-54-plenair-ip171x.u1	The meeting is open. The meeting was opened.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-01-54-plenair-ip171x.u2	Mr President, Prime Minister, allow me first of all to welcome your presence and, on behalf of all colleagues, to wish you a speedy recovery. Prime Minister, in a few hours, the US President will decide on the follow-up he wishes to give to the Paris climate agreement. Ladies and gentlemen, let us not enter into this false suspense. Whatever specific wording President Trump will give to his communication, there is no doubt about the political orientation behind it. We are facing a climate negationist. Let's look at what he's done since he's been president of the United States. It has been a little more than a hundred days since it continues to blow the heat and fear: the appointment of one of the worst climate sceptics at the head of the American Environment Agency; the reduction of more than 30% of the Agency's budgets and the transfer to the defence; the cessation of the funding of the Green Climate Fund at the United Nations; the revival of the Keyston XL or Dakota Access pipelines in contempt of the people living there, their land and their access to drinking water; and, recently, the refusal of a common position of the G7 on climate issues. These are all criminal acts – and I weigh my words! – not only for future generations, but also for millions of people who are already suffering from climate change. Prime Minister, if you want to protect the planet, if you want to protect our jobs too, if you want to protect the future, to demand excuses, to express regrets about the 21-hour coup will not suffice! There is a need for firm measures, including social and environmental tariffs for countries that are banished by the United Nations and which are part of the Paris Agreement. It is on this, exclusively on this, that I wish to question you. Are you ready to enter into this logic of environmental access rights and bring it to the European level this evening? We know that there is a Europe-China summit this evening in Brussels. Are you going to carry this claim tonight? Prime Minister, we are living an important moment; I think you are aware of that. I hope that the answer that you will give here, that the commitments that you will make, that the measures that you will defend here will live up to this awareness.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-01-54-plenair-ip171x.u3	Mr President, Prime Minister, we have therefore heard President Trump's almost confirmed intentions to announce the upcoming release of the United States from the Paris Agreement. It's serious. The Paris Agreement was not perfect, but at least it had the merit of clearly indicating the goal of not exceeding 2°C and of including in this effort two powers, such as the United States and China, which are major carbon producers. Today, we hear this intention of the United States to withdraw from the Paris Agreement. It's very serious. This is very serious because the United States has an important historical responsibility for the amount of carbon released into the atmosphere, which is already suffering many people today. If a power were to get in order, it was the United States of America. Secondly, 21 per cent of the reduction in CO2 emissions was in the United States account. So it's not nothing! Some could minimize and say that it's no big deal and that it's gonna be okay, because there's an agreement in progress. No! It's serious. If the United States emerges from the Paris Agreement, CO2 will continue to spread into the atmosphere in large quantities. Thirdly, there is the risk that other countries will follow this political signal given to the world today, that the Paris Agreement should not be respected and that it is only a vulgar rag. My questions are very clear, Prime Minister. What are we going to do today when President Trump announces that he does not intend to respect the Paris Agreement? Are we going to whine? Are we going to settle for a good clamp at an airport and finally wonder what we did? Are we going to make it clear to the world that we are not accepting this kind of decision? That is the question, ladies and gentlemen. We will not be left to words. I think it is important that we speak with the United Nations bodies and with all the peoples of the world in order to know what we need to do in the event that a world power violates the most basic rights of peoples. Are we going to impose sanctions on the United States? When they are small countries, it is easy, they are punished, but when it comes to the great United States that flout the interests of the world, nothing is said! I believe that it is time for Europe to take control and exert pressure. COP23 is on the horizon. Is it not time to meet Belgian and European ambitions in order to be able to respond to the climate challenges facing us?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-01-54-plenair-ip171x.u4	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, in a few moments we will indeed know what President Trump decides, but it really doesn't matter. After all, we know from the past his actions and from the actions he has already made, we know that we cannot expect too positive things in terms of climate and many other things. Prime Minister, whatever Mr Trump's decision, I propose that we should be ambitious with Belgium and Europe to ensure that the Paris Agreement is implemented. Yesterday, we heard from Mr Wittoeck that superpowers such as China and India remain behind this agreement for more than 100% and will continue to work for renewable energy and to achieve the objectives. In my opinion, we should do the same within Europe. Trump's Brexit and attitude in general have encouraged several European leaders to advocate a stronger Europe. Well, let us also pursue these objectives and ambitions for the climate in the world, and certainly in Europe and Belgium. Mr Prime Minister, my first question is what you will answer if President Trump withdraws his cooperation in the Paris climate agreement. Secondly, what will you do to remain credible with Belgium in that debate? We still have no energy pact. Our climate plan must be ready within the year, but we are also left behind in this area. What will you do to encourage our government and our minister to do so in no time? I have read that our own Minister, Mrs Marghem, says that the Paris targets for 2020 are not really so important. Prime Minister, you can't do that. We all know what's at stake. We want you to take action in this respect, both with regard to President Trump and Europe, but certainly with regard to the other ministers within Belgium.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-01-54-plenair-ip171x.u5	Mr President, Prime Minister, this evening the President of the United States will most likely announce his decision on the Paris Agreement. Fortunately, without waiting for the end of the suspense at White House, China and the European Union are currently meeting. They have already planned to adopt, at the end of this summit, a joint declaration to confirm their commitment to the historic Paris Agreement, and to accelerate their cooperation to improve its implementation. The European Union seems to have understood that there is a realistic need to take back the hand in the matter. But I think we need to go further, Prime Minister. If, in fact, this evening, Donald Trump emerges from the Paris Agreement by justifying his decision by protecting his economic interests and those of his country, it is essential that Belgium and the European Union protect companies that engage alongside states in the fight against global warming. We must therefore avoid that, by an irresponsible decision, Mr Trump will impose a double penalty on us, by defeating the global fight against climate change and by weakening European competitiveness. Prime Minister, what do you think of action to establish a mechanism to compensate for foreign products and European products, in order to avoid carbon leakage, and above all to encourage the United States to return quickly to a climate policy worthy of that name? If the United States emerges from the Paris Agreement, will you possibly defend the establishment of such a compensation process? If so, what initiatives do you intend to take at European level to implement this compensation for our companies?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-01-54-plenair-ip171x.u6	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, over the last few days we have all held our breath, and we will probably do so for the next few hours, because the following question concerns us: is he doing it or is he not doing it? Will President Trump keep his election promise and will the United States withdraw from the Paris Treaty? The Treaty of Paris was a historic agreement in which no fewer than 195 countries committed themselves to limiting global warming. They made concrete commitments to limit this warming to well below 2 degrees. Globally, the consensus was that a well-designed climate policy was needed to minimise this warming. This global commitment is now beginning to be called into question by the doubts raised by the United States and by the President. The question that concerns us all, and certainly the future generation, is the impact of the possible withdrawal of the United States on our climate. Will this withdrawal be a precedent and a domino effect and will other countries return to their commitment? Last but not least, we must dare to ask ourselves whether, without the United States, we are still achieving the climate objective set. Several experts are already putting forward all kinds of forecasts, but I think everyone is convinced that one thing is quite certain: a withdrawal will be bad news for the historic agreement anyway. Prime Minister, I have a number of questions. What commitment will Belgium and Europe continue to make, even if the United States withdraws? How do you assess the impact on the continuation of the climate agreement if the United States withdraws from the agreement? What demarches has our country undertaken within the European Union to ensure that the climate agreement at the G7 is discussed? What position have we taken? What additional demarches do you plan if the United States withdraws?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-01-54-plenair-ip171x.u7	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Paris agreements are important, even fundamental to the future and very ambitious. There can be no doubt: our country fully supports the implementation of these important agreements for the future, as planned. That is a first point. Secondly, last week we had the opportunity to have many discussions at international level with our European partners. We also had a bilateral meeting with Donald Trump and his team. Of course, we have made a strong plea for the agreements, but Trump's scepticism, as we have understood, is very great. My conversations with Emmanuel Macron, Justin Trudeau and Angela Merkel have already taught me that they were expecting a very difficult G7 summit. You all heard Angela Merkel's statement after the G7 meeting. I therefore share the impression that has been expressed. Of course, for the time being, no decision has been communicated and announced. It should be in the afternoon or evening. But all the signals are negative. All signals are pessimistic. What actions do I think we need to take proactively and to which I want to commit myself on behalf of the government? One, we have already begun consultations with European partners in the last few days to be as quickly as possible able to bring together a message, at European level, to multiply its strength. This message is that we must use all means at our disposal to implement the Paris Agreement. I hear, Mr. Nollet, the leads you're talking about. They must be able to be discussed with our European partners, to see how we defend economic interests, in a patriotic way, in Europe, while carrying this ambition of climate and sustainable development. Two - and this is extremely important - we will also look at, within the framework of the United Nations, what initiatives can be taken with other States to bring this important subject to the agenda. I happen to have an important bilateral meeting with the Prime Minister of China tomorrow. This is certainly going to be interesting, as it gives me the opportunity to make a strong plea for China to comply with its public commitments, which China hopefully confirms. It is a strong global argument if we get clarity from China. I therefore note that there is a broad consensus on the benches of this House that we are going to do everything we can, that we are going to mobilise, that we are going to make sure that we move the lines at European level, which I am also committed to. I would also like to keep Parliament regularly informed of any steps that will be taken in this regard. Make the future great must be our ambition and we will make every effort to achieve this goal.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-01-54-plenair-ip171x.u8	Prime Minister, as you have just said, all the signals coming from the Trump administration are negative. I would like to illustrate this with another factual element. If we consider the current trend in terms of global warming, we find that we are above 3.5°C, in other words, well above the 2°C agreed in Paris. With or without Trump, we must raise our ambitions first and foremost in Belgium. The message that you will deliver this evening - I understand that - will not only express regrets. I hope that the statements you have made here will be translated into concrete action in different policies and that the response of Belgium and the European Union to this displaced American desire for protectionism will be an expression of European ambition. Finally, I would like to correct your slogan somewhat by telling you, Prime Minister:make Europe green again!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-01-54-plenair-ip171x.u9	[[Prime Minister, I have heard your statements.]] I hope they will be translated into action. Indeed, for the time being, I have the impression that, diplomatically, we are overly cautious about the American "big brother", when all humanity is in danger. I believe that we must use the United Nations fora and discuss with all other global partners in order to send a strong signal to the United States, whose attitude we do not accept. This is not an American domestic matter, but an issue that concerns all peoples. Secondly, I am less enthusiastic than you about the European Union's ambitions on this issue. What is more, I would remind you that Belgium is lagging behind. Marghem told us that it would not be 2020, but 2030. The stakes are global. This is why Belgium needs to accelerate its work to reduce CO2 production. We must make it clear that we will achieve all the objectives. Although, unfortunately, the Paris Agreement does not make them binding, they must become binding. There's an emergency. Prime Minister, I'm counting on you to punch the table against the American partner.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-01-54-plenair-ip171x.u10	Prime Minister, I am reassured for a great deal. It is useful that certainly Belgium, but also the other European leaders, as you say, and if it is possible not to forget China and India too, two great powers with high CO2 emissions have declared that they are still more than 100% behind the Paris objectives. These are positive signals, in addition to the very negative signal from the United States. However, I would like to warn against credibility. If, on the one hand, Belgium says that we must do more and that we must go 100% for the climate agreement, then on the other hand, we must also put things in order in Belgium. However, when I hear your Minister for Energy, the Environment and Sustainable Development, I no longer believe that. If she herself says that the 2020 targets will be postponed and that we should only go for an improvement of 27% in energy efficiency, while the European Parliament is arguing for 40%, then we are making a mistake. I therefore wish you the courage, Prime Minister, to respond tonight, together with the European partners, but also to put your government and even the Länder in order.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-01-54-plenair-ip171x.u11	Prime Minister, I take note of your willingness to consult with our European partners. We really believe in the European project; we believe that this is an opportunity to make a clear message to our partners, to the whole world. The stakes are important for us, for our businesses, for the people of the world. It is time to take action, Prime Minister, particularly with regard to the Energy Pact. This is an important challenge, which I invite you to implement as soon as possible. I hope that tomorrow, when we hear you, we can say:yes, we can!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-01-54-plenair-ip171x.u12	Mr Prime Minister, thank you for your reassuring reply, but also for your constructive response. I am very pleased that the call to continue our engagements has certainly not fallen into deaf ears. The European Union has always been a pioneer in climate policy. With the target of reducing greenhouse gas emissions by as much as 40% by 2030, the European Union has really played a leading role. I hope that we can continue to play this leading role in the climate. I am therefore very pleased that you say that we must join forces within Europe in order to continue to work effectively on our climate. Colleagues, whatever the choice of the United States, we must not be discouraged. We must live up to our commitments, both at European level and at Belgian level. We stand for a momentum, including in our country. From Belgium we can show the whole world that a small country can be great in its efforts on climate change. In concrete terms, a number of files are coming at us. Reference has already been made to the Energy and Climate Plan to be ready for the European Commission by 1 January 2018. We also need to work on our energy pact. I dare urge you to do this this year effectively, in such a way that the Energy Pact and the Climate Plan are ready by the given date. Thanks for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-01-54-plenair-ip171x.u13	Mr President, Prime Minister, with your austerity policy, you have imposed brutal measures on our fellow citizens. By using health care, social security, hospital budgets to bail out state funds, you have chosen to seriously harm the health of our fellow citizens. With your unfair measures, you have also put pressure on the many workers in the non-market sector who, on a daily basis, show solidarity with those in need. This is about hospital staff, nursing home staff, home care providers. These people are doing a wonderful job and so indispensable in our society. It is true that these occupations are physically and psychologically challenging. Prime Minister, put yourself five minutes in the skin of a nurse! You have to realize that they have less and less time to spend on patients, they have an increasing workload and they will have to work longer! In addition, your savings on hospitals will inevitably lead to job losses that will exacerbate this situation, making it increasingly inhuman. This morning, thousands of workers were asking you for a budget worthy of this name and a new social agreement. You have met with the workers' representatives but you have not put on the table any additional concrete elements. Prime Minister, what are you going to do to improve working conditions in the non-market sector? Can you commit yourself today to putting in place the necessary means to conclude an ambitious social agreement by the summer?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-01-54-plenair-ip171x.u14	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as we are saying regularly in this chamber, the government's ambition is to stimulate the creation of activity, the creation of jobs, precisely in order to be able to support social cohesion, to ensure that our protections can be strengthened and that we can take into account, as you have rightly described, the particularly important role of the professions which are beautifully called the professions of the heart which, in our view, are extremely important. That is why, Madam Member, since the introduction of the tax shift and the multi-annual agreement, we have released EUR 476 million, mainly geared towards job support for the jobs in question, which is the demonstration that from the beginning we have been determined to take this important dimension into account. Together with my colleagues Mr Kris Peeters and Mrs Maggie De Block, we have put concrete measures on the table. From the time of the Easter budgetary control, we released an envelope of EUR 15 million for Committee A and for the non-market sector for 2017. The desire of union representatives and the government is to negotiate on the basis of a multi-annual framework, so that in our 2018 and 2019 budget arbitrations around the summer, we can see what decisions can be taken based on the progress made in the negotiations carried out by Kris Peeters and Maggie De Block. Finally, since 2016, EUR 50 million has been earmarked for the classification of functions, which is very important. This will have a significant impact on the people concerned. I confirmed earlier that, as part of a comprehensive agreement, these 50 million are obviously maintained. As you can see, we are in a process of good will but realistic, because there are budgetary constraints, which everyone knows in this House. The aim is to make every effort to try to reach a comprehensive agreement from a multi-annual perspective. We will see how the budgetary arbitrage that we will have to do in the coming weeks will allow us to move forward or not. Everyone has to take responsibility. The government will take its own when the time comes and the partners around the table will have to do the same.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-01-54-plenair-ip171x.u15	Prime Minister, thank you for your fairly comprehensive answer. I know the negotiations are under way. I hope you will hear the message that was delivered to you by the union representatives, and essentially by the thousands of protesters who came to tell you: "Stop. We can't do it anymore. We want to improve our working conditions." Let's not turn around the pot! For months your government has been multiplying promises and we haven't seen much concrete. You're talking about the tax shift. This is a measure for employers. But we see nothing concrete, since nothing has been asked for in return for the workers. I'm really a worker's lawyer. You really have to think about an improvement. Job creation is an important thing, but behind it you have to talk about job quality. It's really important! I never hear in this House talk about job quality. It's really serious! I think there is a budgetary choice to be made. But beyond that, it is a political choice and it is a choice of society, for tomorrow. I hope that we can maintain effective social security, that we can maintain quality working conditions for our workers and that everyone can have access to quality health care. I hope the non-trader's call will be heard. I really hope so! In any case, I will allow myself to return to the subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-01-54-plenair-ip171x.u16	Prime Minister, political renewal, I wonder if it will ever work. I am thinking back to the talks in Chamber F of the Senate in the 1990s, which went down on participation. I have the impression that our group in charge of political renewal has the same fate. The water is deep, very deep. On many of the issues of cumulation, accumulation, incompatibility and pay of the chairman, the water is still far too deep. The worst of all is that a number of decisions will be taken by the Bureau. They are not taken by Parliament. I am therefore curious how willing colleagues will be to review party funding next week: EUR 70 million for Belgium, EUR 16.5 million for the Netherlands. There's also something like cabinets. The lobby register has been discussed. It is not a problem for MEPs that there should be a lobby register. Members of the majority say that this is not workable for the government. I find that strange, because we have to realise that 90% of what is voted here comes from the government. You're just gonna let the lobby sleep on two ears? Is that the point? There's such a thing as cabintards. We are also world champions in Belgium with the number of cabintards. I'm looking at the Netherlands again. They don't work with Cabinets, they work with top officials. Why not here? The group responsible for political renewal can, of course, only take action for Parliament. That is why I ask you, Prime Minister, whether you intend to make the same exercise for your ministers and your cabinets? I am talking about rules on cumulation, rules on remuneration, lobbying on cabinets, the number of cabintards and also the absurd rule that former government members will have two full-time equivalents available in the next legislature. I expect a decent answer, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-01-54-plenair-ip171x.u17	Mrs Wouters, we have already had the opportunity to discuss political renewal in plenary. I can only repeat that we agree that political renewal is crucial for citizens' confidence in democratic institutions. I hope that with the forthcoming democratic debates in the Chamber, with the ambition to conclude before the summer, we will make progress. I am asking for the government's support for good cooperation on this matter between the government and Parliament. There are a few weeks left before the summer. I repeat my appeal to the majority and opposition to cooperate as much as possible in the perspective of results and improvements. However, I cannot agree, Mrs Wouters, that you give the impression that there is nothing left and that everything is possible. That is not the case. There are already rules in the Cabinets today and in the fight against conflicts of interest. Should the rules be improved? Yeah, sure. Should there be more transparency? Yeah, sure. Do lessons have to be learned from the past? Yes, of course, but I cannot accept the situation of permanent demagogy in this debate. I think that your question contained a lot of demagogy.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-01-54-plenair-ip171x.u18	Thank you for your very clear answer, Prime Minister. The question was whether you, as Prime Minister, will take further steps in your government. There is no doubt that the members of the working group in charge of political renewal are working hard and trying to reach a consensus. I have just said that in many cases the water is still far too deep. I fear that as a result the mountain will bear a mouse. In fact, you answered the question what we should do. My question was what you're willing to do. What will you do with a lobby register in your government and your cabinets? You won't answer that. I guess the answer's negative. Let's leave it at that: that's the motto. The participation will soon crush the political renewal. The participation governs the country better than ever before. Citizens want transparency. That's what you said yourself. They want to know what happens to their taxpayers' money. We must therefore give this transparency. People are being called upon to make a great deal of effort. It is therefore strange that we do not want to give this transparency. Please stop that double morale. Participation and politics live above their stand, not the citizen.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-01-54-plenair-ip171x.u19	Prime Minister, not long ago the future of the European Union and the euro was considered particularly bleak. Critics saw today's European project as a house of cards, partly because of the Brexit, the emerging populism in neighbouring countries and also the election of Trump. But look, today, only a few months later, we see that this trend has already turned. There's a certain confidence again. There is once again pride about the European project. The European Commission's reflection paper on the future of economic and monetary union also highlights this pride. It calls for the strengthening and deepening of EMU. The importance of the reflection paper cannot be underestimated. Europe needs a system that guarantees that Member States continue to invest in infrastructure and leaves room for public investment, even if it goes a little less economically. At the same time, it needs financial stability. We can create these, among other things, by jointly issuing debt papers. In our group's view, a strong Europe is also a social Europe, where, in addition to economic convergence, which is already largely there today, there is also a need for convergence in employment between Member States. This is why our group is particularly pleased with the reflection paper: there is a confident call for further deepening and strengthening of the European project. Prime Minister, what is the Belgian Government's position on the proposals put forward in the reflection paper? Will you support them on behalf of Belgium?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-01-54-plenair-ip171x.u20	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, yesterday we took note of an important document. We are studying it to see what concrete effects we can support in the coming months at European level. Our position is well known. I am, like you, convinced that we now have a unique opportunity. With a little irony, I dare say that the Brexit and the election of Trump may be the best levers to make significant progress. I also note at European level that the political lines, compared to the last two years, are moving in the direction that Belgium has always supported. These are clear priorities for the future: more jobs in Europe, more innovation in Europe, the energy transition, the digital agenda and certainly the deepening of European Monetary Union, an important challenge. What is planned at European level? At the end of 2017, there will be a political arbitration, which is now being fully prepared. We must strike a balance between responsibility and solidarity. I am convinced that, in view of the latest election results in the Netherlands and France, we still have to wait and see what the German elections are going to be, we will have a unique opportunity to find a new impetus at European level in the next six or twelve months. I will do everything in my power with the government to play an important role at European level in this respect, without being naive, realistic and pragmatic, in order to make progress and to feel the positive effect in Belgium.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-01-54-plenair-ip171x.u21	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your very positive words. We like to hear them. In fact, you take the words out of my mouth, because I had already written that the election of Trump and the Brexit is an opportunity for our European project. I do not think that the discussion deserves a status quo. We need to move on. We must not fall into the trap of critics, of so-called Eurorealists who would be less fortunate. No, we must make full progress for the European project. We must rely on our own strength. We must use the new dynamism, the new confidence that exists, to deepen and strengthen our European project.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-01-54-plenair-ip171x.u22	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, during this interesting plenary session we have already raised a number of important world problems: Trump, the effects of climate change, the energy pact that we must conclude. And our public institution Unia has discovered a new world problem, in particular that many employers in our country apparently discriminate when awarding student jobs because they sometimes, occasionally or to a large extent, reserve these jobs for the children of their own employees. Mr Minister, I believe that this is a deep-rooted practice that is applied in many companies, as well as in public institutions and in cities and municipalities. Apparently, that is, according to Unia, a form of discrimination. I have already read a response from your colleague Willy Borsus, who is here, saying that we should not seek discrimination where there is no discrimination. And I think he has a point. You responded with caution by relativizing the case, saying that you are not aware of any complaints at the moment and by taking a stand-by attitude. Mr Vice Prime Minister and Minister for Labour, what exactly are we doing and what exactly is Unia doing? Is taking into account the criterion "parent' or "staff' really a form of discrimination? Or should we rather see this as a wage advantage, in which a child also travels with the company car that is included in an employee's wage package? Or with the kindergarten available in some companies? Then that's not discrimination, it's part of the benefit. Is this a social problem? Finally, are there no other problems conceivable why Unia could be concerned today?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-01-54-plenair-ip171x.u23	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Lachaert, yesterday we contacted Unia in order to clarify the reactions that have been made on the basis of an opinion they have delivered. The information we have also received is that an opinion was given because a number of questions had been asked. The first thing I would like to emphasise here is that we, in my administration, but apparently also in Unia, have not received any complaints about the issue of giving holiday work to the children of workers, which may be contrary to the 2007 anti-discrimination law. The first point, therefore, is that there are currently no complaints. Secondly, as I said yesterday, on the basis of the legislation adopted here, of course, there may be discrimination if a company clearly pursues a policy whereby all students of non-workers are excluded by definition. Thirdly, I have stressed that a lot of employers have common sense in tackling this issue and that we are going to have to deal with many other challenges in addition to this issue. Indeed, unfortunately, we are faced with many challenges, especially with regard to the employment opportunities groups. That is a priority and we must do everything we can to resolve it. I have great respect for advice delivered on the basis of existing legislation. However, I do not think that the problem is the one that needs to be addressed. This is a problem which, in reality, is approached with a great deal of common sense. I feel that there is no discrimination unless everyone else is expressly excluded. That is not the case with my knowledge, at least we have not received any complaints.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-01-54-plenair-ip171x.u24	Minister, I am very pleased with your clear and clear answer. Unless a very closed circuit is created in which no one else can manage, companies can now give priority to the children of their staff to fill in a holiday job. I do not understand why an institution that we finance is paying attention to such a theme, along with all the other existing problems concerning migrants and people from disadvantaged groups, with whom it should deal. Ladies and gentlemen, some institutions are under pressure. Well, I do not understand that, at a time when the survival is under pressure, people are working on such a matter and thereby feeding their own abolition. Unia is here to solve problems, not to create new problems.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-01-54-plenair-ip171x.u25	Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this morning I read with great pleasure in the press that, at your initiative, a solution could be found in the case of overtime payments in the Horeca. We know the difficulties inherent in this sector, because it requires a great labour potential and, moreover, depends heavily on weather and seasonal conditions. We also know that profit margins are sometimes very tight. That is why you have already taken a number of measures in favour of this sector - first to clean it up, but also to accompany it. I am thinking in particular of flexi-jobs and overtime which are exempt from any wage burden and which are, moreover, fiscally neutral. However, the payment of overtime also depends on very strict conditions such as the unpredictability of additional work and imperative requirements. Very quickly, it became apparent that this was a problem. My colleague Sybille de Coster-Bauchau had already asked you about this last March. It also appeared that some institutions did not necessarily follow all of these recommendations. Therefore, we can only welcome the simplification of the system, while recalling, on the one hand, that the payment of these overtime is only for full-time workers and, on the other hand, that they are limited to 360 hours per year per worker when the black box is installed and to 300 hours per year per worker in his absence. For all these reasons, Minister, I would like to ask you the following questions. Can you inform us of the situation of the Horeca since the entry into force of all these measures? Are we aware of the number of bankruptcies in this sector? How does the job go about it? Finally, alongside its support, there was also a question of rehabilitating the Horeca. Additional controllers had been hired. Can you tell us more about their work?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-01-54-plenair-ip171x.u26	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Friart, I am satisfied with your question because you have read and understood that I want to change the rules governing overtime. You are very familiar with the current measures organised under very strict arrangements, namely that it is possible to organise overtime of up to 360 hours per year, in the case of an extraordinary increase in workload or unforeseen circumstances. In practice, social inspection raises a number of questions, in conjunction with other inspections, as both conditions are not clearly applicable to the horeca sector. That is why I have discussed with the industry in order to simplify the rules on overtime mainly. I intend to propose an amendment to the law, not to remove the two conditions but to add one: when the worker agrees to work overtime, it must be accepted for a period of six months and thereafter, as provided for in another measure of the 100 overtime hours. This will have the advantage of simplifying the situation in the horeca sector and will have positive effects on employment, on legal certainty and I hope that these rules will stimulate horeca mainly in the summer, when it is necessary to reassure the sector.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-01-54-plenair-ip171x.u27	Minister, thank you for these answers in favour of Horeca. Your action, like that of your colleague Borsus, is in line with this government, which is doing its best to support SMEs, businesses and self-employed people who create employment in Belgium. All this is well confirmed by the statistics that we now have at our disposal. More specifically, with regard to the horeca sector, which has been changing in recent years, it is necessary to monitor it closely in order to see the effectiveness of the measures taken. We will pay attention to this because it is a matter of guaranteeing employment in a sector which is large enough to provide jobs. Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-01-54-plenair-ip171x.u28	Mr President, Minister, while the ghosts of recent years have finally matured that an increase in prison capacity is needed in order to organise an effective fight against crime, you want, in all your savings, to depopulate the prisons. We know that you do not do that by pursuing a lick-on-piece policy so that the number of criminals falls. No, you do that just by letting the criminals walk away. Your paradise plan for criminals has reached a very absurd stage. After this government has already decided not to carry out small penalties, after it has already decided to extend the lax system of ankle bracelets, you are now going to make that signal of impunity even greater. You would like to set quotas on the number of pre-trial detentions. This is not really consistent with what you want to do next week, namely to triple the time limit for administrative arrest. You want to set quotas. Once a certain maximum number of arrests has been reached, no arrests will be allowed. Investigators, who consider that certain persons belong in a cell, should just let them go. Mr Minister, there should be no quotas. There must be as many incarcerations as necessary to ensure street safety and to ensure the safety of the investigation. Are you aware that suspects can flee with an anklet, embezzle evidence and endanger the investigation? What are investigators supposed to do with the many suspects who don't even have an address in this country? Are you aware, Minister, of the enormous effect this can have on foreign criminals? Minister, I am sure you are a wise man. I really wonder if you are seriously considering introducing this absurd measure. Do you really want to limit the number of arrests? Do you really believe that this will improve the safety of the population?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-01-54-plenair-ip171x.u29	Minister, many of our prisons are not only old, they are also overcrowded. That's a disgrace we've already been convicted of. I know that you have made a promise to the prison staff to do something about it, and you have already done a lot: interned people have been brought to special institutions, you and Theo Francken have already had a record number of illegal criminals serving their sentences in their home country and we have already worked on alternatives. That is not enough, however. I read in the newspaper that you are now proposing a new remedy, in particular quotas for remand. In concrete terms, this means that only a maximum number of people may be detained per district pending the investigation. That means, in fact, that when the maximum is reached and there is a gang in front of the investigating judge, a success for the police appears, perhaps after months of investigation, the investigating judge has two possibilities: either he has to say that the prison is full, like on a sign at an underground parking lot, and let them go, or he has to find places by releasing other people, whom he had previously found necessary to keep them. After all, we all know that a judge of inquiry doesn't just do that. You will understand that your proposal makes the eyebrows frown. You won't be surprised. Looks like the upside-down world. So I have a few questions. First of all, do you really support this very controversial proposal? If so, how do you see it in practice? How should a investigating judge decide who he will and will not hold on to in terms of numbers, capacity? He must already take three criteria into account. They are very clear: flight risk, recurrent danger and collusion hazard. In human terms, that means when it is really necessary for the investigation or for safety. How can he find another criterion between them? How should he decide: not on content, but on numbers? I'm thinking illegals fleeing and disappearing into nature. We will not be able to condemn them after that. What if the person to be released repeats? Do we really want to place that responsibility with the investigating judge again, simply because there is insufficient capacity? I'm really looking forward to your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-01-54-plenair-ip171x.u30	Mr President, Minister, it is clear to my group that the penalties imposed must be implemented. We all know that provisional detention is not a punishment, that it is not a means of coercing confessions, but that it can only be imposed by an investigating judge in the event of serious indications of very serious crimes, in other words, when public security is compromised. Minister, we all know that prisons are overcrowded and that this problem needs to be addressed. As Mr De Wit has said, efforts have been made by this government to give the interns a place outside prison and to allow third-country nationals to serve their sentence in the country of origin. I think it is also necessary to work on a number of additional prison places. The government will also have to make additional efforts in this regard. Minister, what we read in the newspaper this morning has also raised our doubts. It seems as if you want to combat symptoms by suddenly reducing the number of persons temporarily attached, even when the safety of citizens and society is at risk. It seems as if the agreements made with the trade unions are above the safety of our society. My questions are therefore very clear and simple. If a judge has ruled that someone is dangerous and he or she should be attached for the time being, which of these dangerous people will you exempt from? Is a decision of a magistrate no longer to be carried out? Will the government, and you as Minister of Justice, stand above a decision of a magistrate and decide that certain attached persons should no longer be attached? Thank you for explaining that.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-01-54-plenair-ip171x.u31	Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, a year ago the situation in prisons was particularly difficult. We have had many weeks of strike mainly in Wallonia. As a result, the announcement had been made to reduce prison overcrowding to the extent possible. At the time, the figures were important. The decline is, today, a reality, but it is not enough. In fact, contrary to what had been announced and hoped for – earlier, my colleagues recalled that measures had been taken to reduce this overcrowding – we have not yet reached the figure of 10,000 inmates, since today there are 10,800 inmates. Trade unions are concerned about the situation in prisons. One of the reasons for this overcrowding is, of course, the use of pre-trial detention. The figures vary, but some 30 per cent of the prison population is still in pre-trial detention. The group of experts that you set up by ministerial decree for the floor on the reform of the criminal procedure mentions, among the ways of reducing prison overcrowding, the introduction of quotas. Minister, my group has the greatest reservations about this track for a number of reasons. First of all, it is a bad signal given to the victims who may not understand that, because of quotas, one can decide to release persons who have been the subject of a detention decision by an investigating judge. The question will be the same at the level of public safety. In addition, a policy of individualisation of situations and cases is in place so that justice can best respond to the difficulties faced by society. Applying a quota policy runs counter to this notion of individualisation of situations. Finally, we would find ourselves confronted with a source of potential inequalities and injustices. Minister, what is your analysis of the expert group's thinking on the concept of quotas at this stage? What contacts do you have with the investigating judges? Even today, I have read a statement from the latter. It appears that they are not in favour of this idea of quotas. What other avenues of reflection are on the table to ensure that prison overcrowding continues to decrease, as has been the case since you joined the Department of Justice?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-01-54-plenair-ip171x.u32	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am actually pleased that we have the opportunity to discuss such a delicate problem at an important time in the week, because it is not so easy to get the public's attention to it, except during a prison strike or at times when ministers would launch foreign proposals. First of all, let me say that the problem of overpopulation in our prisons does not date from yesterday. In this respect, we have been repeatedly condemned by national and international judges. A Minister of Justice is faithfully implementing government agreements when they say that Tilburg must be closed and that 35 million can be saved for our budget. When a mayor of Vorst says that half of his prison must be closed urgently, and if he doesn't, he will do so himself, a Minister of Justice tries to live up to all these things in a very cooperative and daily operational way. A Minister of Justice regrets to note that everyone knows better what happens to Uplace, Oosterweel and Ghelamco than what happens to Haren or Dendermonde. Only when a Minister of Justice can answer questions from a journalist about what is happening with the prison protocol and those ten thousand prisoners is the idea of the experts, to which he refers in his answer: what could that mean? Shall we release rapists and barabs in exchange for some pedophile? Ladies and gentlemen, do you really think that your Minister of Justice, with the kind of press releases that are being circulated, is capable of so much madness, do you really think? Do you really think I've been turning my nest around for two and a half years with these cheap communiqués to get beaten up, whether they come from the left or from the right? No! But, there's a painful reality. I'll give you some figures of detention homes I visit regularly. Antwerp, 620 people for 365 places; Sint-Gillis, 830 people for 579 places; Lantin, 864 people for 618 places; and Dendermonde, where we have been waiting for ten years: 250 people for 159 places. Meanwhile, Mr De Block and I are working very hard on the institutions for interned people. 182 places will be available on 29 June. Colleague Jambon would share in the flowers, in case he was there. Meanwhile, Mr Francken and I are working very hard on a repatriation policy. We are doing the impossible to reduce the number of foreign prisoners, which was about 12 000, to 10 800. Yes, I have said, and you will not find this in the protocol with the prison unions, that ten thousand might have been a target figure. By the way, I said that in my first judicial plan. Our current capacity is what she is. If I can do magic, tomorrow there were new prisons in Aalst, in Paifve, in Waver, in Haren and Dendermonde. But you know what legal and practical objections stand in the way. Or should I list them to you? Should I list to you which boards all think they should interfere in the decision to build a prison? Do I have to list all the residents who think they should go to the Council of State because they have to tolerate a prison in their neighborhood? Okay, I'll keep it concise. I conclude my speech. Mr President, I know no institution in this country, no youth institution, no closed institution for foreigners, no institution where people are forced to enter, where there is no numerus clausus. I don't know any. I know what terrible problems this has created so far in such institutions. I know very well that this creates problems and I therefore do not plead for it. I'm just trying to get your help and your conscience. Mr President, I would like to ask you one more minute because it is a problem that I really care about and I am happy to be able to talk about it today. If we do not solve the problem together, it will never be solved. As far as pre-trial detention is concerned, I am surprised that investigating judges say that the seat is not doing its job. I am surprised that investigators declare that the seat is not doing its job. The remand doesn't exist to punish individuals. It exists for public security and for all the reasons you have mentioned. When I see the reaction of the investigators that the penalties must be enforced, this is not for the purpose of pre-trial detention. (Protests from Mrs De Wit) Mrs. De Wit, I read the text. May I point out that there are major resorts in which one anklet is used to take persons into remand? There are also resorts in which one hundred to two hundred persons are given an ankle bracelet. The remand is not an absolute truth. Can we agree to that? What did I allow myself to do? Here's what I noticed. If those experts dream of a system in which tomorrow the investigating judge becomes the judge of liberty and the parole officer leads the investigation, and if the investigating judge sets a maximum time limit, could the parole officer perhaps consider whether everyone sitting there should be in prison for sure? He may then wonder whether it is absolutely necessary that there should be no ankle straps in certain resorts. He may wonder whether any person who has committed a crime should necessarily be in prison in anticipation. That's all I've noticed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-01-54-plenair-ip171x.u33	Mr. Secretary, would you like to finish?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-01-54-plenair-ip171x.u34	Mr President, I just need a moment. After all, what I am saying here is very important. I am not in favour of that. Mr. President, I'm sorry if I said anything wrong. I am not in favour of that. I would simply point out to you, as well as to the investigators and our public prosecutors, that it is the intention to bring those concerned to justice as soon as possible. Ninety percent of the crimes have been proven and resulted in a confession. If they are tried promptly, there is no need for long-term detention. Mr President, I need a place to treat these people with dignity. So I'm not in favour. I'm referring to it. Colleagues, I just want to say that such a situation cannot continue. I fight every day. Thank you, Mr President, for your patience.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-01-54-plenair-ip171x.u35	Minister, this policy cannot last for the safety of the population. You're doing the opposite of what you should be doing. Why don't you take an example from the Netherlands? The Netherlands has first expanded the capacity of the prisons, precisely in order to be able to carry out any sentence, no matter how short. You referred to your first judicial plan; you should not have committed yourself to reducing the number of places from 12 000 to 10 000, you should have committed yourself to extending the capacity to at least 15 000 places. Let us look at the Netherlands. The Netherlands now has cells on surplus. Why? That's because it's created a deterrent effect. It has fewer criminals, just by carrying out every sentence. You're letting go of the criminals because you're stuck with that grade fetishism, with your budget, and you want to depopulate the prisons. You are doing the opposite of what you should do, Minister. You should expand the prison capacity. You should completely abolish the Lejeune Act. There's no way you're gonna restrict that remand. You should do all the jail time, no matter how short. That is the only way to make the real strength of change in our justice and security policy feel, to turn the current stimulus policy for criminals into a lick-on-piece policy, a policy that was successful in the Netherlands. This creates a deterrent effect, and it is the only way to ensure the safety of citizens.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-01-54-plenair-ip171x.u36	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. It is still a controversial issue, and I am glad that you have said so as such. One thing is for sure, sometimes a punishment is just necessary and sometimes an arrest is just necessary. Period. That really should not depend on numbers and capacity for us, but only on a substantive assessment. I think you agree. If we want to intervene on the import side, it must not be on that number, but on that it must be in a different way. Then we will have to ensure that we have the capacity, the alternatives, the care institutions, because that is what the investigators have asked for. You're saying the judge needs to think carefully before he arrests someone. Well, we want to be able to extend the time limits for arrest; we want to give the investigating judge more time to decide whether to hold someone or not, more than 24 hours today. Maybe that could help a little. I therefore call on everyone to approve our proposal next week. After all, we absolutely need to consider how we can solve the problem. Mr Minister, we can live with a sign of fullness when it comes to an underground car park or a sold-out concert. However, when it comes to crimes and the security of our society, that is not the case for us.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-01-54-plenair-ip171x.u37	In any case, Minister, thank you for the clarifications you have made. I assume, Minister, that the provisional detention can only be justified if public security is at risk, overcrowded or not. The overpopulation cannot play a role in this. It's a magistrate who has to think about it and make a decision. Minister, I do not think quotas are a good thing. I would therefore urge you to think about this, to talk to the magistrates and to look for other solutions that do not endanger society and our citizens. Finally, Minister, I think it would be a good idea to discuss the licensing procedure with your Flemish colleagues. It is indeed scandalous that we have been waiting for years for prisons in Dendermonde and Haren. The procedure gets in the way there. I believe that we are pursuing the same objective and that you should have a word with the Flemish Government about this. The same applies to electronic surveillance. The waiting period has not decreased, but increased. I believe that this is something that needs to be said, too, if we are to solve the problem on the ground and not symptomatically.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-01-54-plenair-ip171x.u38	Minister, thank you for your answers. You had a clear expression in the face of a particularly delicate subject. You also recalled the difficult context. I am not surprised to hear your willingness to find collective solutions because there is no solution. You are well aware that this is a particularly delicate subject, with important responsibilities. This is your wish, and we look forward to it. You have understood our reservations and it was good to be able to conduct this debate, which deserves to be expressed. We will be at your side to participate in the search for balanced solutions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-01-54-plenair-ip171x.u39	Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we are living in a particular context - as is well known - in particular with regard to the Kazakhgate case and everything that goes around, namely what is known as the criminal transaction. On 2 June 2016, the Constitutional Court handed down a ruling, whereas in 2011 this criminal transaction was passed, which is - it is enough to follow the work of the commission of inquiry a little to realize - a real trauma for our democracy. The Constitutional Court ruled that the mechanism of the criminal transaction, as it had been organized and put in place, violated the Constitution. There were legitimate questions. Had there been any interference by a foreign State in the way our country operated? Has justice failed as part of its mission? Are political parties, the MR, the CD&V, as it is said, involved in this issue? Should these elements be highlighted, brought out? Should we come to a review of the system in which we went, given that the Constitutional Court had found that there was a violation of the Constitution. In the course of these discussions, other committees, such as the Panama Papers Commission, chaired by Mr Laaouej, have considered the matter. The Commission felt that work should be done and that recommendations should be made. You yourself, questioned by parliamentarians, considered that, in the context of the criminal transaction, yes, there were initiatives to be taken, but it was probably necessary to wait for the various work carried out by the committees. You confirmed this in a letter dated 9 February addressed to the Chairman of the Kazakhgate Commission. What is not the surprise - whereas today we know that it is a fundamental element for our democracy, for criminal justice, so that this justice is equal for all - to learn that the government has completed a reform on the criminal transaction without waiting for parliamentary work, whether Panama Papers or Kazakhgate. Minister, is this your way of meeting your commitment to waiting for Parliament's work? Why this contempt for parliament?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-01-54-plenair-ip171x.u40	Minister, 31 May was not a good day for anyone who hopes for justice in our country. Following attacks from outside and inside: N-VA, MR, CD&V and Open Vld, a meeting rhythm is imposed that makes it impossible to make a careful assessment of the friendly solutions that fall under the commission's mandate. Secondly, the Attorney General, how dare they decide on how to apply a law passed by a judgment of the Constitutional Court, which is based on a dragon of a law introduced by the class justice system in Belgium. Minister, I have heard no response from you. However, it gets worse. The same Minister of Justice stated in this Chamber on 19 January to Peter Vanvelthoven and on 9 February in a letter to me that he thought it wise to await the recommendations of the parliamentary committee of inquiry. However, Minister, last night you announced that you would submit a draft law to the government and the Chamber before the recess. Mr. Secretary, why? Under pressure from what interests do you return to your promise made twice in the Chamber to wait for the recommendations of the Committee of Inquiry which is active in this area?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-01-54-plenair-ip171x.u41	I have the impression that the atmosphere is good in the Kazachgate Committee. I kind of miss that good atmosphere, ladies and gentlemen. The buy-back law, because that is what it is about, is one of the greatest shames in the history of our rule of law, for two reasons. Firstly, with the introduction of the law, class justice has been given a legal basis and has been legally committed. Secondly, the creation itself. I do not have much to explain. We all know that there were two tracks: the French, to help a cheating Kazach a bit, and lobbying from the Antwerp diamond sector. Mr Minister, tomorrow it will be a year since the Constitutional Court has rightly destroyed that law............................................................................................................................................. Rightly, because the law is unconstitutional. He violates the principle of equality and puts the judge to the ground. That was the main criticism. However, we now see that the law, despite its destruction, is still being applied. It has been applied for a year, in a number of cases, in a number of courts. A number of public prosecutors simply did not care about the judgment of the Constitutional Court and simply continued. What do we do now? What does the College of Attorney General do, and I suspect yourself, because you're one of them? A letter is being made to regularise this practice, which was actually already under way. Anyone may apply the law found to be unlawful on the basis of that letter. That's unseen. That's unlikely. So this is done by the highest court, with knowledge and perhaps even with your decision, Minister. This way the big fraudsters can get back to their business. This way the class justice can resurrect fully. In the meantime, the committee of inquiry which investigates the implementation of the law must conclude quickly, because it is apparently very hot among some of the parties involved. Mr. Secretary, why did the letter come? Why didn't you come up with a law? Why is it trying to correct an illegal law by means of a forwarding letter? I have searched for the letter to know exactly what it contains, but the transparency in the publication of mailing letters is not that great. I can't find the letter. That's why I want to ask you what it says. What are the conditions and criteria with which the prosecutors can still work in such files? Can we still do it after subpoena? Is it still allowed when the file has been forwarded from the courtroom to the courthouse? What's the judge supposed to do to the ground? It is not bound by directives of the College of Attorney General. What is the role of the judge on the ground? Can he say he doesn't care about it and that he destroys it? What's his legal basis? Can he question the principle? Can he question the amount? What is the legal basis on which a judge should now judge?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-01-54-plenair-ip171x.u42	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I think it was on 20 July 2016 that for the first time I was in the nuclear cabinet and the Council of Ministers with a proposal to repair the law on the amicable settlement following the judgment of the Constitutional Court. Mr Van der Maelen, because of the start-up of the Kazachgate Committee, I replied to a question by Peter Vanvelthoven that it seemed appropriate to me to wait for a moment, because I thought it would come up there. On 3 February, two weeks after Mr Vanvelthoven had questioned me in the Chamber, President Bracke referred to a statement from you, Mr Van der Maelen, in which you said that the committee was not responsible for making a general assessment of the law. You didn't tell us not to wait for you at the time. I am not saying that you said that, but I understood at that time from several colleagues in your committee that this was not really the purpose. I'll be honest with you. I personally hoped that this would be the purpose, because I hoped that this law, if it were amended, would be supported by the whole Chamber. If we do not find each other in this area, as happens again today, and they say:le ministre cache quelque chose.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-01-54-plenair-ip171x.u43	Why is he doing it? If we continue in this atmosphere, and if we do not know how to amend this law in a good atmosphere carried by the whole House, it is very delicate for any minister, whether in charge of Justice or Finance, to propose anything on this subject. Why did I do it anyway? I answered you. You rightly said it, Mr. Massin. And it is not out of contempt for Parliament. If I had contempt for Parliament, I would not explain all this in full transparency. Why did I do what I did? Because I feel that in the field, Mr Van Hecke, all kinds of factual decisions are taken by courts and prosecutors. I can't do much about that, because I have nothing to say about it. I would not like to see different sizes and weights in this section, depending on the size of the band. So what did I do? I have drafted a large draft law with all the adjustments that need to be made to our recent legislation, taking into account decisions of the Constitutional Court. There are a lot of laws that the Constitutional Court regularly questions and wants to see improved. One of these many laws is this one, which will enable us to meet all the demands of the Constitutional Court in a completely transparent system of judicial review. When a journalist asks me how far it is, I also answer transparently and say that it has been approved in the IKW and is ready for the Council of Ministers in the next few weeks. Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, I have not waited any longer because, as you rightly say, Mr Van Hecke, the terrain is impatient and waiting. Soon for over a year. Second of all, what did the parole board decide? Not me. Without any direction or initiative, the court has told me that it withdraws its initial letter, in which it calls for no more friendly settlements and falls back on the old situation. Prosecutors-General will be able to allow friendly settlements. The public prosecutor informs me that it will not at the moment settle any politically difficult dossiers. It will only do a number of business by parquet, per resort. I didn't promise, I didn't approve, I didn't control it. I'm just saying what they did. I read that letter like you read in the press. I've had it by now. This is the situation at the moment. I believe that the draft will go to the Council of State before the holiday. I don't expect it back sooner than after the summer. I would hope, apart from the work of your committee, Panamagate and all the others I do not wish to interfere in any way, that detailed hearings will be held on that draft. I hope that hearings will take place when this draft is tabled in the Committee on Justice so that, with the greatest possible unanimity, such a project can be carried out because for a country, after some time, it becomes unworthy of arguing about such things. Everyone feels that this need exists, that it is not necessary to use too much but that, in some cases, this is inevitable and that, therefore, the legislator has a duty to ensure that the judge can decide on such a criminal transaction.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-01-54-plenair-ip171x.u44	Minister, the terrain is impatient. Don't worry, it's the kind of thing that can make that at the level of parliament raise concerns. This is a cause for concern because the Kazakhgate Commission shows that when there is an impatience on the ground and there is no time to do its work well at the level of parliament, to weigh the pros and cons, possibly hearing from all the parties, to ask for the opinion of all the interested partners and possibly to know what dangers can be there, it creates problems, it creates suspicions. Parliament as a whole wants an answer. I would like to point out to you – and you are not responsible – that on Wednesday yesterday, the majority did not show the right sign in this regard. Please don't follow this line, Minister of Justice! Go another way! Collaborate with Parliament! Do not go towards a simple logic of majority versus opposition in this matter! I would like to remind you, however, that the Panama Papers Commission has said that it will deal with the problem of the transaction at the request of the CD&V Group. At least respect your group!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-01-54-plenair-ip171x.u45	Mr Minister, I am sorry, but anyone who has studied the file, the history of the buy-back law, has a normal suspicious reaction when looking at everything that has happened. You say that on 20 June you went to the nuclear cabinet with a draft to repair the law, that the government and yourself decided on 20 June not to react immediately and that, after the decision to set up an inquiry committee in this house in mid-December, you yourself decided to wait. Well, Minister, what you are saying gives me the feeling of being back in 2011. Suddenly, very quickly, without us having any idea of the reasons, there will be an acceleration, an acceleration in the committee, an acceleration in the attorney general and an acceleration in politics to adopt a law very quickly which threatens to jeopardise the justice of our country. I hope, Minister, that within a few years we will not have to reorganise a committee of inquiry to find out the real reasons for this acceleration.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-01-54-plenair-ip171x.u46	Minister, I had hoped to get some concrete answers to my very specific questions. What exactly are the conditions set out in the letter? And what if a fraud has already been subpoenaed and the case has been opened, and one is pleading? Can we then, just before a verdict is reached, as in the case of Chodiev at the time, settle or not? You don't answer that. It should be in the letter, I believe. What's in your text? What choice did you make in this matter? What about the judge on the ground? There is no legal basis anymore. What's a sitting judge supposed to do now? He's not allowed to judge formally. According to the Constitutional Court, he must rule on the substance. Well, on what basis will he have to do this? That's very unclear. I don't think a debrief can resuscitate an illegal law. Maybe you're a CPR specialist, but I don't think this is possible! Finally, Minister, there are many people who have experienced in recent years how difficult it is to go to court. The threshold has been raised. It's gotten harder. It's gotten more complicated. Above all, it has become much more expensive. Big criminals and big fraudsters are now given a very nice means of escape, by making a settlement, with a total lack of transparency. That is the result of this government's policy.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-01-54-plenair-ip171x.u47	Madam Minister, you have ignored all the alarm bells that have resonated regularly in the south of the country to denounce the shortages of doctors that are already emerging. You even ignored the opinion of the Planning Commission, which called for a revision of the allocation key for INAMI certificates in favour of Francophones, in order to avoid these shortages. You carried out a genuine blackmail in order to impose a medical entry competition in the south of the country, but violated the rule imposing a minimum period of six years between the official publication of the quotas and the alleged release of the students concerned. Since you refuse to set quotas on the basis of objective elements, the students received-paste could again attack the test at the Council of State and win, as they did last year. However, in the absence of quotas, the students are now initiating an interim procedure against the Belgian State with a view to obtaining the cancellation of the competition. The legal uncertainty that you place on the future of the medical profession is unworthy and inadmissible, especially from a minister who is part of the corporation! Minister, how are you going to get out of this mess? Will you question the issuance of certificates for students in the course of their studies? Is it not time to finally recognize that all this makes no sense and that a pragmatic policy must be pursued based on scientific evidence that shows the existence of shortages and the absurdity of the numerus clausus practiced?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-01-54-plenair-ip171x.u48	Mrs Caprasse, in fact, procedures have been introduced by first-year students of basic medical training at universities which fall within the competence of the French Community. These students believe that there is no reason for the French Community to organise a competition at the end of this academic year, since no quota was set for doctors in 2022. This is the only element for which federal authorities are targeted. I suppose there is no point in reminding you of the circumstances that made it impossible for us to set quotas for 2022! All the other arguments concern the competence of the French Community. It is therefore impossible for me to comment on this. It is up to the court to assess this argument.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-01-54-plenair-ip171x.u49	You answered my question. You're in a real mess, Minister. I'm thinking of all those students who are preparing their exams. This situation is very disturbing, you are playing a dangerous game, both for public health in the south of the country and for democracy. I am also surprised by the silence of my colleagues in the MR who are still concerned with this problem. These students are located in most of the communes of his agents. It is very disappointing to see them stay on the balcony.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-01-54-plenair-ip171x.u50	Mr President, Minister, EUR 6 billion. Six billion, so much is lost every year to waste in health care. This is now resurrected by statements from the new director of the National Bank of Belgium, but the figures are known. Study after study, OECD, of Itinera, shows that it amounts to EUR 6 billion. We know that. We know where they're being wasted. Let me give you a few examples: prescribing the cheapest brand, making more bets on home care, saving hundreds of euros per day and per patient, more bets on day hospitalization, the antibiotics. The list is long. We know where the EUR 6 billion can be found. Six billion is a large sum and it would help us a long way to meet the needs of the people who are on the streets today. I hear you saying there's no money for the nurses in the hospitals. I hear you saying that for our home nurses, who are chronically underpaid, there is no money. Well, then I tell you, there's the money! Six billion euros. There's the money! So my question to you is what you will do to get that money.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-01-54-plenair-ip171x.u51	Mrs. Van Camp, you probably inspired yourself on a small paragraph from the interview with Mrs. De Wachter in Knack Magazine. However, you are going down a bit and I will explain to you why. In this interview, Mrs De Wachter reports that in Belgium we spend 1% to 1.5 % more of our gross domestic product on healthcare than in our neighbouring countries and the Scandinavian countries. It's all over the budget, all over the entities. It is therefore about wages, care for the elderly, care for the disabled and so on. It refers to the report of the National Bank. The 2016 report states on page 147 that Belgium is achieving fairly good results in terms of health care. Among other things, the quality of the health infrastructure, the general satisfaction of the beneficiaries, the short waiting time for a medical appointment and the accessibility of our health care are underlined in that report. It is, of course, very brief to deduce that higher expenditure is the fact that we invest more in health care than in the neighbouring countries. That is at least the conclusion you draw, because you say that there is overconsumption and waste for EUR 6 billion. The report also states that further cost control should also be considered. So do we. The growth standard has been reduced to 1.5% since the beginning of this legislature. Measures and actions have been taken to increase the cost-efficiency of care, as we score poorly, in such a way that we can offer the best possible quality and accessibility of care within the available budget. That is what we are doing with major structural reforms in the hospital landscape, with network reform and the pharmaceutical pact, all to keep prices under control. Mrs Van Camp, cost efficiency also means that every euro we spend must be well spent. In order to better monitor this, we have developed the action plan on enforcement with the RIZIV, which contains concrete measures to increase the effectiveness of care. I read in the report by the National Bank that we invest a lot in health care and that this benefits our people. We are fighting against overconsumption, but it is very short to say that it is about EUR 6 billion.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-01-54-plenair-ip171x.u52	Madam Minister, we can agree that the figures differ from study to study, whether a study by the National Bank or a study by the OECD report specifically on waste. The fork goes from 7 % to 14 %. Around EUR 30 billion are therefore very important amounts. I would therefore like to hear you say that steps are being taken to deal with the waste. Let us not forget that the challenges are enormous. Those waste didn't come from today to tomorrow. They have come because of the laxity of previous governments and because of the poor policies that previous governments have pursued, not only in terms of public health, but in general. We will certainly support you to continue the reforms in health care.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-01-54-plenair-ip171x.u53	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, whatever some may think, a polar breeze has touched us this week. You are, in fact, negotiating a new agreement with the Polar Foundation in secret for a few weeks. The press has revealed that the state intends to recover the millionth of the polar station that the Polar Foundation still owns. In exchange, the IPF would obtain the concession from this station. History has taught us what could be the consequences of a bad deal. Without wishing to recall any bad memories, since the portfolio of Secretary of State was held by the N-VA, there have been significant legal fees (1.5 million) for past seasons, and most of all there has been a cancelled search season. We must avoid making the same mistakes. Conflicts of interest should be avoided with the IPF, both a member of the ASBL, which allocates the market and the operator who receives the market. It is also necessary to have a Belgian State presence on the ground to ensure that the management complies with the terms of the Convention. Madam Secretary of State, does your proposed concession answer this question? As far as we are concerned, the polar station is a showcase and a powerful tool, especially for researchers. As I have just said, we must avoid making the same mistakes as in the past. To do this, we must open the file to experts and allow Parliament to examine this concession. Transparency in management is necessary. This requires transparency in the drafting of the agreement. Parliament must be able to make remarks before the agreement is signed. Have confidence in our ability to work constructively on the subject! History shows us, indeed, that Parliament has a fine understanding of the polar station file. Since 2015, we have been calling for negotiations with the Polar Foundation. You gave us a reason to start them, unlike your predecessor. Madam Secretary of State, can you inform us of the state of the negotiations? Is the Polar Secretariat involved? Do you confirm the rumour that the state intends to become 100% owner of the station and that the IPF will keep the agreement? What part of the operations does the concession concern? How will the state be present in the field with regard to research? In the light of past problems and the related financial consequences, can you provide us with a copy of the future agreement so that we can discuss it together before it is signed? In view of the elements I have just mentioned, transparency in this area is a necessity.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-01-54-plenair-ip171x.u54	Mr de Lamotte, thank you for your question. As you know, discussions are under way between IPF representatives and my firm to find a solution to this polar station conflict. I would remind you that this conflict has led to more than twenty disputes and has cost the Belgian State more than EUR 600,000 in legal costs. You will agree with me that this situation is untenable. Since taking office, I have first reconstituted the Strategic Council, in accordance with the provisions of the Royal Decree. Within this body, the 2017-2018 campaign is in preparation. At the same time, discussions are under way between the IPF and my firm to put an end to all disputes in the future. I can tell you that these exchanges take place in a good atmosphere. Both sides work together constructively and intensively towards a solution. Therefore, a certain degree of discretion is an essential condition. It is for this reason that neither I nor the IPF have commented on the recent press articles on this subject. I hope you will give me a few more weeks, Mr de Lamotte. We have deliberately not communicated on this issue. This is important if we want a solution to the polar base. I said from the beginning that I would solve the problem. Just as I solved the VKI file, I will solve the pool base file. Give me a few more weeks so that we can work out a comprehensive solution, in the interests of the scientific research we carry out on the polar basis. Once the solution has been found, I can assure you that I will present it to Parliament in full transparency.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-01-54-plenair-ip171x.u55	Madam Secretary of State, thank you for your answer. I think you're on the right track because we asked for negotiations, and you started them. I would like to mark this negotiation with you, hence the importance of my questions. I also think that the concession is not a blank cheque, it must be a mission letter. The missions of the polar station must be defined and scientific research in the station must be supervised. I take note of your goodwill in these negotiations. I would like to convey to you my wish to agree on the matter in committee so that the framework can be set before the conclusion of this convention. Thank you for your availability, mine is total.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-01-54-plenair-ip171x.u56	End of oral questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-01-54-plenair-ip171x.u57	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 31 May 2017, I propose to you the draft law amending Article 276 of the Income Tax Code 1992 on the settlement of the early collection of the long-term savings tax, No. 2454/1, to be postponed to the plenary session of Thursday 8 June 2017. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 31 May 2017, I propose that you defer the bill amending Article 276 of the Income Tax Code 1992 on the imputation of the advance collection of the long-term savings tax, No. 2454/1, to the plenary session on Thursday, 8 June 2017. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-01-54-plenair-ip171x.u58	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteurs are Ms Lalieux and Mrs Dierick. They refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-01-54-plenair-ip171x.u59	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the bill before us today concerns the collective management of copyright and related rights, as well as the granting of multi-territorial licences of rights in musical works. More specifically, this is the transposition of the European Directive 2014/26. On the one hand, a legal framework must be put in place to ensure the proper functioning of the collective management of copyrights, while at the same time ensuring greater transparency for entities operating in Belgium and strengthening both the information obligations of the latter and the monitoring of their activities. On the other hand, it intends to facilitate, in an increasingly cross-border context, the granting of multi-territorial copyright licences for the use of music on the Internet. It is clear that, in terms of content, the transposition of the Directive...
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-01-54-plenair-ip171x.u60	Mr. Chairman, where is Minister Peeters?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-01-54-plenair-ip171x.u61	I have just been informed that Minister Peeters cannot be present. The government is represented on Parliament's banks and even twice. I mean that two members of the government are present.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-01-54-plenair-ip171x.u62	Mr. Speaker, the Minister of Finance had the decency to postpone his bill scheduled today in plenary because he knew he would not be there. Mr Peeters was there to answer a topical question. Don't say he's abroad or anywhere else. He was there half an hour ago. Mr President, this is about copyright. This is a fundamental project, which has had a lot of discussion and there are still questions because the report is not precise enough. I would like to rehearse Minister Peeters on specific questions that I am going to ask him here in plenary. I therefore ask either to postpone this point or for the minister to come to plenary immediately. This way of working is not going to work. His presence is a minimum. I remind you that he did not accept the hearings. At some point, however, Parliament still needs to be able to exercise its rights a little bit.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-01-54-plenair-ip171x.u63	Mr President, I agree with what my colleague has said. I'd really like to insist. In committee, we have had extremely difficult and complex debates. It is well known that there is a great mobilisation of ground around this text. Minister Peeters knew it wasn't an annoyance. This is not a transposition as one can sometimes have and which does not require any debate. Here, there was a debate in committee. We were all directly arrested by copyright companies. I think this is an important debate. We have to hold him with Minister Peeters, who has to answer all our questions. Indeed, either we do this debate with the minister or we postpone it. Truly, here it is a matter of seriousness and respect for the whole sector.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-01-54-plenair-ip171x.u64	Colleagues, I told you what I knew. I don't know any more, but I understand your questions and your requests. Consequently, I shall now suspend the sitting so that I can inform myself of the Minister's presence. The meeting is suspended for about ten minutes so that I can inform myself. We're back at about 4:30. The meeting was suspended. The meeting is adjourned.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-01-54-plenair-ip171x.u65	The meeting was resumed. The sitting has resumed. Mr Friart, I apologize for this interruption and I give you the floor for the second time.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-01-54-plenair-ip171x.u66	Mr President, I repeat my point. It is clear that, in terms of content, the transposition of the Directive does not constitute a major revolution for Belgian copyright collective management companies. Indeed, the provisions contained in the Directive had already been amended by the Act of 30 June 1994 on copyright and related rights by the adoption of the Act of 10 December 2009. However, the exercise has mainly led to the removal and restructuring of Book XI, so as to ensure greater legibility, but above all greater legal certainty for all actors in the sector. It is true that questions remain about collective management rights and more specifically about the problem of direct injection. Other colleagues also spoke about this legal uncertainty related to the evolution of technologies. I agree that the problem is complex, especially from a legal and economic point of view. But the minister reassured us. His services, he told us, are currently studying all possible alternatives. And we are promised that a solution will be found by the end of the year. Personally, I will pay particular attention to this. However, the transposition of this directive has been delayed. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I can only invite you to follow us in this bill, on which my group and I will vote favourably pending a favourable outcome to the issue of direct injection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-01-54-plenair-ip171x.u67	Minister, following your absence, we had to remind you of your interest in copyright. Transpositions are not to their advantage. The authors will judge your absence for themselves! As I said in committee, we have no objection in principle to the bill because it is the transposition of a directive that allows for some interesting progress. You know that the previous government had already preceded the directive with regard to the transparency of collective societies. But our problem, Mr.Minister, and we have put it to you at length, is what is not found in the transposition of the directive, which is not reflected in your bill! Your bill is in line with what you have done about reprography. You remember the debate in which we participated together in committee! There were judicial conflicts for which you wanted clarity. What have you done in your reprographic bill? You've been right, the state has given reason, to multinationals instead of giving reason to our authors, to our journalists, to our publishers. This undermines all Belgian creation. Minister, what are the consequences of your haste? The judgment was rendered: Reprobel won against HP. Your law is a waste! The destruction of the dual system that you set in motion in your previous law was not legitimate since the courts gave Reprobel reason. You have once again precipitated a law and a directive, without debate, since only the opposition has spoken. Today, the authors will have ten million less because you gave the multinationals the right and, by the way, wrong the authors! But the courts have shown you that your haste has not been helpful and that it is even superbly damaging. Minister, I hope that you will come back to the Reprobel law. It's important. As you know, and as Mr Friart has repeated, there is legal uncertainty about the concept of direct injunction and cable retransmission. This was the whole debate we had in committee. There too, Minister, you did not tell us why you wanted to move forward now. You yourself have asked the Intellectual Property Council for an opinion. The opinion will be given in the next few days. At the same time, you asked for a study. But what you could have done is to remove any definition and not validate the current definition. We know you're late. This is not Parliament's fault. It's not the authors' fault. This is not the fault of the management companies. It is not the fault of the people that you punish through this law. I very sincerely believe that you should have postponed your law until September when you have the advice of the Intellectual Property Council. This delay and delay do not justify this haste of the government. As we heard, you will implement a solution by the end of the year. But what will this solution be, minister? Will you once again give reason to the strongest, to a multinational, to Telenet? It must be mentioned because today only Telenet does not pay copyright when it comes to direct injection. While a parliamentary working group was set up by Telenet, one wonders why we benefit again Telenet! There is the question of the conflict of interest of some and of course the question of Telenet's intense lobby is raised. I find it unacceptable that a government should give a multinational to the detriment of our authors and creators. If you tell us, as you did in committee, that you are going to wait for the outcome of all the appeals before the courts, know that Telenet has just re-introduced an appeal to the Brussels Court of Appeal. Knowing the judicial backlog of this court of appeal, we will only have a judgment in two, three or four years! Minister, are you really going to wait for the outcome of all the appeals? The consumer pays these copyrights by paying his subscription to Telenet. These are not provided by Telenet and therefore the citizen is the turkey of the farce, as well as our creators and authors. This is unacceptable! Minister, the lack of choice you knowingly pose through this project is in line with the government's policy towards artists and creators. The latter continue to experience setbacks in copyright. For all these reasons, we will abstain from this project. You say you're waiting for a study. But technological advances continue! For me, the only solution is that, regardless of the technology through which the content passes, authors are entitled to just compensation. I therefore ask you to state here, because you have not done so in committee, that you will finally defend the authors and their rights! Will direct injection or any other technology be subject to the laws that have been passed by a large majority in this Parliament on copyright? We demand it, Minister! Today, we are only receiving negative signals from you and this government. I think the authors will remember it at the right time!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-01-54-plenair-ip171x.u68	Mr President, Minister, many things have already been said. The debate was long, interesting, but also lively in committee. The text of the draft law transposing the European Directive 2014/26/EU that you are proposing to us contains interesting things. But there is a fundamental problem, which you have recognised in committee: it is the legal uncertainty surrounding direct injection and the concept of cable retransmission. Several court decisions have been issued. You referred to it during the debates in committee. There have been different interpretations, and at least two different visions of these legal concepts exist. Beyond the legal controversy, the problem is that this has a direct impact on all authors and creators in this country, and on all the remuneration and income owed to them. These definitions and legal uncertainty can actually reduce their income. We're talking about millions of euros for thousands of artists. This situation is clearly untenable for them today. That is regrettable, especially since we have the opportunity to do this work seriously, and to go to the bottom of things. You are asking us to vote in some haste, since you have reminded us of the European timing which requires us to vote. Again, we are required to vote in the absence of answers on the central concept of this text and on the authors. That is the problem. If you provided answers and a clear legal view of this definition, we would not even have a debate here. The problem is that you are pushing us to vote by presenting us with a tight timing, although you cannot blame parliamentarians for these conditions. We are forced to speak today when the extensive legal studies have not been carried out to the end, and this uncertainty remains. We have already discussed this in the Committee on the Economy, where you told us that you would use legal analysis, so that we would get answers at the end of the year. From two things, either we wait until the end of the year to reopen the debate and vote on this text as soon as we have all the information – it seems to me to be a serious and successful method – or you commit yourself to Parliament by announcing a clear timetable describing the analyses to be provided and the steps to be taken before the end of this year. Above all, it is important that, depending on the results of the studies you have commissioned, you promise to change the text you want us to vote today. You must commit, Minister! If the analyses confirm the contradictory nature of the court's findings, you must tell us: "I undertake to modify the text in a certain way", so that the artists of this country know what to stick to. Indeed, their income is directly affected by your project. For our group, this aspect is absolutely fundamental. We therefore want clarity in this regard. These are the problems that your project poses. We will vote in a few minutes a text whose heart is opaque definitions, which will have an effect on artists. In addition, conflicting interpretations remain. For us, it's not serious. Above all, thousands of artists will face enormous difficulties. I think you know that, since you were asked – like us – by the copyright societies. There is a real concern. I sincerely believe that you must provide clear answers in terms of commitment. You could ask for the vote to be postponed until you have all the studies, but I do not have the impression that this is the direction we are going to take. At the very least, you must commit to adapting the text according to the analyses that will be transmitted to you. That's the minimum we're asking for. In any case, my group will not be able to support your bill, to the extent that clarity is not fully achieved.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-01-54-plenair-ip171x.u69	Mr Minister, we have been on a well-fed committee, but I feel a little bit like an unfulfilled job, a job that has not gone to the end of what was supposed to be done, a part-time job. Indeed, work is under way to determine the redefinition of cable retransmission in order to address the current legal uncertainty. You have decided to deal with this issue separately from the project you are currently presenting. We regret that you did not take the bull by the horns and seek to solve the problem in order to adopt this bill a new definition that would dispel legal uncertainty and especially litigation. I think that's the problem. The fact that there was money was mentioned. There are writers who don't get those moneys. This is obviously a major concern. The definition of retransmission needs to be clarified in order to give legal certainty to all actors. The fact that this definition should not be regarded as an adequate answer to the problem of this definition today. Mr. Minister, you have made a commitment to us to reach a solution before the end of this year. You had even specified "a study before the summer, a legal study in the coming weeks and the results of a second study on the economic situation". This is your challenge and the timetable you have set yourself. Minister, there are many disputes and I know that between the time of the commission and today a second meeting was held, including the Intellectual Property Commission. Rather than finalizing a report, a debate was resumed. I think it's time to ring the end of recreation and that the SPF Economy is really moving towards a solution. There is a need to increase the number of sessions and engage in consensus work with all the players in this Intellectual Property Commission. Minister, I invite you to ask the SPF Economy to mobilise all the technical skills necessary to carry out the economic studies that will evaluate alternative systems. Finally, you must actively participate, with a project, in the work of the European Council on direct injection and not just follow developments at European level. That's your challenge! These are the beacons I'm staring at you. I expect you to take the question with your arms to propose a solution this year. Thank you very much for the answers you have given me and for confirming the timetable you have announced in committee. Indeed, many people are waiting for a solution to be found.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-01-54-plenair-ip171x.u70	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, firstly, it was agreed that the government would be represented when this point was raised. If the Minister's presence is expressly requested, then the Minister will come. That has nothing to do with it, Mrs Lalieux, that I would not take this draft seriously, nor would I take the discussion seriously. We postponed the committee meeting to give you the opportunity to look at the whole draft. I totally disagree with your first intervention that this would not be an important draft for us. Secondly, I also totally disagree with the insinuations of being driven here for some group. Neither Telenet nor anyone else has any conflict of interest or anything else. Just to be clear, I'm going to distance myself from that, and I have no message from it. I regret the way in which you approach this important design and smear it with an atmosphere of conflict of interest and intervention by a particular company, because that is not the case and I can guarantee you that. Maybe you were lobbied by some management companies. That is possible, but I would like to know what and what arguments they have put forward here in the Chair. That's what I want to talk to you about. I am well aware that certain management companies are concerned. And I know very well that certain management companies have written to and contacted Members of Parliament. We need to talk about this before you make such statements. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have a directive here which must be implemented as a matter of urgency. According to some fellow Members of this House, we can take some time and we should not be too concerned if Belgium is condemned. I am trying to work as quickly as possible in difficult circumstances, on very technical dossiers, to prevent us from being caught by Europe again. I also do not accept the very tendentious statement of which you have made on reproduction, Mrs Lalieux. I can assure you that copyright is very dear to me and that I will do everything I can to ensure that it is absolutely safeguarded. A very important point is the direct injection. This is indeed a very complex issue, both legal and economic, and it will require a great deal of energy to clarify it. I have instructed my services to prepare a legal study. The Intellectual Property Council failed to reach a unanimous opinion on 18 May. This will be reviewed in June. So there is still a lot of discussion to be had and hopefully a comparison will be made. I have ordered a legal study, which I hope I will be able to receive in the next few weeks. An economic study has also been announced. In response to Mr de Lamotte's question and others, I can assure you that by the end of the year, following important discussions on very complex issues at European level, I will come here with a solution relating to direct injection. I will speak with all the parties involved, including Telenet, to resolve the problem as quickly as possible in favour of the authors. Moreover, I deeply regret the way in which the opposition speaks of a very important piece of work, in which there has been a great deal of energy and for which we have taken the necessary advice. I call for the draft to be approved and I am committed to proposing a solution for direct injection by the end of the year, which provides the authors with the necessary guarantees of proper treatment. In fact, with this draft, they are already being treated in a better way. We will continue to do so. So let us now approve the draft.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-01-54-plenair-ip171x.u71	Mr. President, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, you know, you can scream, but the facts are there. The facts are just there. I'm not making up anything. Even the Ethics Commission has ruled on this issue in this Parliament. I would also like to point out, very calmly, Mr Minister, that the only operator who does not pay copyright - this is a reality - has just mentioned the management companies. He assigned them yesterday. They are strong, of course, since we are going to vote for a project that gives them a blank. He assigned them yesterday, minister. This can continue for 20 years. Every time, the winners will be lawyers. But who are the big losers today? They are obviously the authors and the consumers. I would remind you that, in the Telenet subscription, consumers pay for copyright. That's 20 million, minister. And they're going to go on in court until the policy takes on its responsibilities. The policy can assume its responsibilities by saying that direct injection is similar to any other technology and that copyright must be paid even on that technology. Minister, you can scream, you can say that my words are shameful, but reality is what it is. Compared to Reprobel and reproduction, minister, your bill is down $10 million. It's a reality. You're going to count me at the end of the year. You allegedly guaranteed the 24 million. You never said the number. I will come at the end of the year to see if the 24 million will be paid in copyright. Today, it's already 10 million less. You were wrong in your bill. Indeed, justice has just given reason to Reprobel against HP. One of the arguments in your bill, minister, was that legal conflicts must be resolved. How did you solve them? By giving reason to the strongest. It's just facts, minister. I'm waiting for you to prove the opposite to me when I'm back in Parliament. But I fear that in the meantime tens of millions will be lost for authors and creators.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-01-54-plenair-ip171x.u72	Thank you for your answers, minister, but again you say that some want to postpone the text until the end of the year, that this is not serious and that you do not want it. But what's not serious? It is working just before the deadline, and asking parliamentarians to work hard on a text that is not finalized and that has enormous legal uncertainties. That's not what's serious! Don't tell us: "Because of you, we will have to pay compensation to Europe by referring the text back to the Greek calends at the end of the year."! No. We call for a serious analysis of this text so that it no longer contains legal uncertainties. Today, we are not in a position to do so. You recognized him. That is the content of the discussion we had in committee. I repeat that we can postpone the discussion and the vote on this text at the end of the year, when we have all the elements. I am not asking for a postponement; I ask that we work seriously and in detail. Don't say we're just here to postpone! That's not the point. I'm talking to you. Don't mix the speakers; thank you! In your speech, you blame us for wanting to postpone the text at the end of the year. It's just a matter of doing the job seriously. That's what's important to us. You are committed to finding solutions for the authors. It's the most important thing, and I take note of it. I can't do more for now. This is really fundamental and I would have liked you to commit yourself to possibly changing the text that this Parliament is about to vote on in a few moments. This is what is important: the text must be adapted to the analyses that will be made, otherwise the commitments will remain somewhat dead letter. Minister, I would like you to commit, on behalf of the government, to changing the text according to the results of the legal analyses you requested by the end of the year. This is what all the authors and artists concerned with these legal uncertainties are waiting for. That is what we are waiting for, in the Ecolo-Groen Group. For this reason, we will only be able to abstain in the vote on this text.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-01-54-plenair-ip171x.u73	A brief reply, Mr. Chairman, taking note of the Minister's replies, since I believe we will not go further today, and taking note of the decisions, the draft and the timetable that have been expressed. I note in my agenda the dates you have communicated to us, Minister, and I look forward to seeing you with the commitments you have made to the authors, so that these problems can be solved.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-01-54-plenair-ip171x.u74	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-01-54-plenair-ip171x.u75	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2451/3) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2451/3) The draft law has 120 articles. The bill has 120 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-01-54-plenair-ip171x.u76	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-01-54-plenair-ip171x.u77	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Dirk Van der Maelen, Alain Top, Sébastian Pirlot, Benoit Hellings, Wouter De Vriendt, Georges Dallemagne, Marco Van Hees, Olivier Maingain. The Committee on Defence proposes that this motion for a resolution be rejected. (885/4) The Committee on National Defence proposes to reject this motion for a resolution. (885/4) Pursuant to Rule 88 of the Rules of Procedure, the plenary shall decide on this proposal for rejection after hearing the rapporteur and, where appropriate, the proposers. In accordance with Rule 88 of the Rules of Procedure, the plenary session will decide on this rejection proposal after hearing the rapporteur and possibly the authors.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-01-54-plenair-ip171x.u78	Mr President, on 2 December 2015, 5 October 2016 and 10 May 2017, the Committee on Defence came together to discuss the present proposal for a resolution. On 5 October 2016, there was also a hearing with the representatives of the Court of Auditors. The authors of the proposal, Mr Van der Maelen and the Sp.a. Summit, Mr Pirlot of the PS, Mr Hellings and Mr De Vriendt of Ecolo-Green, Mr Dallemagne of the cdH, Mr Van Hees of the PTB and Mr Maingain of DéFI, three of whom are present here, intend to instruct the Court of Auditors to follow up the file on the replacement of the F-16 fighters of Defence. The authors of the proposal believe, through Mr Van der Maelen, that any large arms purchase dossier should have the greatest possible transparency and that the file on the replacement of the F-16 fighter planes is too important to leave only to the military. He also felt that Parliament could not fully exercise its right of control. He made the comparison with other countries where, according to the speaker, there was more openness in the field of purchase records. His group colleague, Mr Top, also refers in his speech to other countries where there is more openness. Mr Pirlot, who is not present, states that his party is in favour of keeping the F-16 fighter aircraft in service longer. He also said that he supported the resolution and that he would not understand why Parliament would not apply such a minimum of transparency. Mr Hellings, who is neither present nor present, sees no reason to dislike transparency or the involvement of the Court of Auditors. He also considered that, although the dossier was only in its early stages, the Court of Auditors should be called upon to request, analyse and interpret information. Mr Top takes the view that the amounts quoted are very different. That is why there is a need for careful follow-up by the Court of Auditors. As I mentioned, there was a hearing on 5 October 2016, for which the Court of Auditors was invited. Jos Beckers, Counselor of the Court of Auditors was present. I quote him: "The Court of Auditors only checks a posteriori, i.e. as soon as commitments are made, and therefore does not intervene in the prior decision-making process. There is, of course, a need for caution, particularly in respect of security clauses and in dealing with the accessibility of information. Finally, there is the special commission for the purchase and sale of the Chamber, which, in application of the administrative protocol concluded between the Chamber and the Minister of Defence, can exercise specific control over the purchase files of Defence. The Court of Auditors also informs the Committee that it is not responsible as a body for the follow-up and preparation of purchase files. The relevant competence lies with the Treasury Inspectorate. The majority, through Mr Klaps, Mr Ducarme, Mr Van Mechelen and myself, join the Court of Auditors. It believes that there is already a great deal of transparency on the dossier in question and on similar dossiers, namely through the Army Procurement and Sales Commission. In addition, the RfGP is publicly available on the Minister's website. The majority therefore suggests that the motion for a resolution should not be supported. The vote was then taken. The motion for a resolution was rejected by seven votes in favour and three against. Mr President, I hope I have stayed within my time frame.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-01-54-plenair-ip171x.u79	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is not a good marriage today. We need to be more transparent not only about international missions but also about purchase records. Colleagues, we are talking here today about the purchase file of the century. It is therefore appalling that, once again, this cannot be dealt with in full transparency. The government considers it necessary to spend 15 billion taxpayers' money on expensive aircraft in times of savings. At the very least, then, we are asking for openness and transparency. Every citizen has the right to know where his tax money is going and whether it is being spent properly. Transparency can ensure this. In discussions on transparency, there is often an argument that there would be a lot of sensitive information available. However, it seems rather strong to us that all the information transmitted would be business secrets. Everyone must have at least access to the financial picture of the four aircraft manufacturers................................................................................................................................................................................................ After all, this is about a billion-dollar buy-in. With this resolution, we want Parliament to assume its responsibilities and to instruct the Court of Auditors to examine the financial picture outlined by the various manufacturers. The Court of Auditors itself indicated that it can carry out checks on determined policies. So, if you have listened carefully to the report, there is already a change. Today we can speak of definite policy, because the RfGP has now been sent around. We therefore propose that the Court of Auditors be involved immediately. I would like to quote, as the rapporteur did just now, Mr Beckers of the Court of Auditors: 'We can report on the preparation of the purchase'. But of course we have to ask that, colleagues. However, other countries show that it is possible. I have given the example of Canada and the Netherlands, which have involved their accounts from the outset. That is where transparency is the rule. According to the majority here, it seems impossible. The majority tries to defend themselves by declaring the Treasury Inspectorate to be the great supervisory body. With all due respect, and we do not doubt the expertise of the Treasury Inspectorate, but that is a supervisory body of the executive, in other words the government. The Treasury Inspectorate is not an instrument of Parliament and gives advice in the Army Procurement and Sales Committee, again behind closed doors. Parliament can, however, order the Court of Auditors to act as an instrument of legislative power. We want independent control in order to guarantee an open and fair debate. Moreover, ladies and gentlemen, it is important to note that the Finance Inspectorate today has 42 employees. They serve both the Federal Government and the Communities and the Regions. The Court of Auditors, on the other hand, has about 500 employees. The possibility of even more specialisation and expertise in this dossier is therefore much greater when we involve the Court of Auditors. However, ladies and gentlemen, other levels of policy in this country prove that it can be done. Let me give you an example. With regard to the Oosterweel connection, the Court of Auditors regularly reports to the Flemish Parliament on the progress of the dossier. The Flemish Parliament apparently feels better about the question of transparency than the majority in this Chamber. I can only say that this majority prefers a decision behind closed doors. In the meantime, however, it is dragging future generations into a dangerous and unfeasible budgetary adventure. Our children and grandchildren will pay the invoice for the replacement of the F-16. Ladies and gentlemen, I hope that the majority will still vote for this proposal for openness.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-01-54-plenair-ip171x.u80	No other speaker may speak. No one can speak any more. Mr Pirlot and Mr Van Hees, I would like to point out that, in accordance with Rule 88, only the author and the rapporteur can speak. It is a question of balance between the two. The vote on the proposal to reject this bill will take place later. The vote on the proposal to reject this bill will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-01-54-plenair-ip171x.u81	By letter of 12 May 2017, the President of the Assembly of the French Community Commission shall transmit the text of a motion of interest adopted by the Assembly on 12 May 2017 as referred to in Article 32 (1a) of the ordinary law of 9 August 1980 on the reform of the institutions, inserted by the special law of 7 May 1999 and amended by the special law of 27 March 2006. By letter of 12 May 2017, the President of the Assembly of the French Community Commission transmitted the text of a motion adopted by the Assembly on 12 May 2017, concerning a conflict of interest as defined by Article 32(1) of the ordinary law of 9 August 1980 on institutional reforms, inserted by the special law of 7 May 1999 and amended by the special law of 27 March 2006. The conflict of interest concerns the draft law on the harmonisation of periods of study to be taken into account for the calculation of the pension, No. 2378/1. The conflict of interest concerns the draft law on the harmonization of the inclusion of periods of study in the calculation of pensions, No. 2378/1. In accordance with Article 102 No. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber, I will arrange for consultations with the Assembly. In accordance with Rule 102, No. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the House, I shall organise a consultation with the Assembly. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 24 May 2017, the delegation from Mr Jan Spooren and Mr Frédéric Daerden, Ms Sybille de Coster-Bauchau and Ms Sonja Becq (rapporteur of the draft bill), Mr Vincent Van Quickenborne (Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee), Ms Karin Temmerman, Mr Georges Gilkinet and Ms Catherine Fonck will exist. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 24 May 2017, the House delegation will be composed of MM. Jan Spooren and Frédéric Daerden, Sybille de Coster-Bauchau and Sonja Becq (Rapporteur of the bill), Vincent Van Quickenborne (Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee), Karin Temmerman, Georges Gilkinet and Catherine Fonck. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-01-54-plenair-ip171x.u82	Article 1, third paragraph, of the Law of 29 October 1846 on the establishment of the Court of Auditors provides that the members of the Court of Auditors shall be appointed by the Chamber of Representatives every six years. Article 1, paragraph 3, of the Act of 29 October 1846 on the organisation of the Court of Auditors provides that the members of the Court of Auditors shall be appointed every six years by the House of Representatives. On 9 June 2011, the Chamber of Representatives appointed the members of the Court of Auditors, with effect from 1 July 2011. On 9 June 2011, the House of Representatives appointed the members of the Court of Auditors with effect from 1 July 2011. By letter dated 15 May 2017, the first President of the Court of Auditors informed me that all the members of the Court of Auditors currently in office are requesting the renewal of their mandate which will expire on 30 June 2017. By letter of 15 May 2017, the first President of the Court of Auditors informs me that all the members of the Court of Auditors currently in office request the renewal of their term of office, which expires on 30 June 2017. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 24 May 2017, I propose that you proceed with this renewal. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 24 May 2017, I propose that you proceed with this renewal. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. I hereby declare appointed with effect from 1 July 2017: (a) in the case of the French Chamber: Mr Philippe Roland, First Chairman; Michel de Fays, Counselor; Pierre Rion, Counselor; Didier Claisse, Counselor; Franz Wascotte, Counselor; Alain Bolly, greffier; (b) in the case of the Netherlands Chamber: Ms Hilde François, President; Mr Jozef Beckers, Counselor; Jan Debucquoy, Counselor; Rudi Moens, counselor; Vital Put, raadsheer; Joseph Van Ingelgem, head griffin. I therefore declare with effect from 1 July 2017: (a) for the French Chamber: MM. Philippe Roland, first president; Michel de Fays, Counsellor; Pierre Rion, Counsellor; Didier Claisse, Counsellor; Franz Wascotte, Counsellor; Alain Bolly, greffier; (b) for the Dutch Chamber: Ms Hilde François, President; MM. Jozef Beckers, Counsellor; Jan Debucquoy, Counsellor; Rudi Moens, Counsellor; Vital Put, Counsellor; Jozef Van Ingelgem, Greffier and Chief.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-01-54-plenair-ip171x.u83	During the plenary session of 24 May 2017, the Dutch-speaking and French-speaking members of the Disciplinary Board of the Commission for the Regulation of Electricity and Gas were appointed. Francophone and Dutch-speaking members of the Disciplinary Council of the Commission de Regulation de l'Electricité et du Gaz were appointed during the plenary session of May 24, 2017. As announced at the plenary session of 4 May 2017, no applications were submitted for the mandate of President and for the mandate of Dutch-speaking Registrar and only one application, by Mr Eric Robert, for the mandate of French-speaking Registrar of the Disciplinary Board of the Commission for the Regulation of Electricity and Gas. As announced in plenary session on May 4, 2017, no candidature was submitted for the term of office of President and for the term of office of Dutch-speaking clerk and only one candidacy, that of Mr.Eric Robert, was introduced for the term of office of French-speaking clerk of the Disciplinary Board of the Commission de Regulation de l'Electricité et du Gaz. Mr Eric Robert also applied for membership of the Disciplinary Board. Since he was appointed an effective member at the plenary session of 24 May 2017, his candidacy for the mandate of French-speaking Registrar can no longer be taken into account. Mr. Eric Robert had also applied for membership in the Disciplinary Council. Since he was appointed as an effective member during the plenary session on 24 May 2017, his candidacy for the term of office of French-speaking clerk can no longer be taken into account. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 31 May 2017, I propose that you publish two appeals to candidates in the Belgian Official Journal, one for the President of the Disciplinary Board and another for the Registrars. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 31 May 2017, I propose that you publish two calls for candidates to the Belgian Monitor, one for the Chairman of the Disciplinary Council and one for the Registrars. Are you sure you don't mind? (No) Thus shall be done.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-01-54-plenair-ip171x.u84	No observation? (No) That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-01-54-plenair-ip171x.u85	The Government requested urgent procedure under Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure when the draft law amending the Law of 10 February 1981 on pensions in the social sector, No. 2492/01. The Government requested urgency in accordance with Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure when the bill amending the Social Sector Pensions Act of 10 February 1981, No. 2492/1, was introduced. Traditionally, the government wants to motivate its request. Mr. Francken?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-01-54-plenair-ip171x.u86	Mr President, the urgency is justified by the fact that the increase in the minimum pension for an incomplete career by 1.7 % should start on 1 September 2017. The draft also introduces a second barema for the minimum pension, which should be integrated into the Federal POD programme. It also provides for the elimination of the 15% gap between the minimum survivor's pension and the minimum retirement pension as a single person, also from 1 September 2017. It is a question of ensuring that the legal basis is available in good time. I would like to point out that the draft law implements the opinion of the social partners on the distribution of the welfare envelope 2017-2018 for pensions in the system of employees.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-01-54-plenair-ip171x.u87	I would suggest that we speak on this question. I propose that we take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-01-54-plenair-ip171x.u88	The Government has also requested urgent treatment under Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure when submitting the draft law amending the Law of 22 March 2001 establishing a guarantee of income for the elderly, No. 2493/01. The Government also requested urgency in accordance with Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure when introducing the bill amending the Act of 22 March 2001 establishing the income guarantee for the elderly, No. 2493/1. I pass the floor to the Secretary of State for Motivation.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-01-54-plenair-ip171x.u89	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, with regard to the second draft law, the urgency is justified by the fact that the increase in the amount of guaranteed income for the elderly starts on 1 September 2017, in parallel with the increase of 0.9 % of the basic amount of the income guarantee for the elderly, the IGA, in implementation of the social partners' opinion on the distribution of wealth. I find it difficult to imagine that anyone would oppose it.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-01-54-plenair-ip171x.u90	I would suggest that we speak on this question. I propose that we take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-01-54-plenair-ip171x.u91	The last distributed agenda contains a list of proposals for which consideration has been requested. You have taken note of the list of proposals for consideration in the agenda distributed to you. If there is no objection, I shall consider it adopted; in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, these proposals shall be sent to the committees responsible. If there are no comments on this subject, I will take it into account as a matter of fact and refer the proposals back to the relevant committees in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 31 May 2017, I also propose that you consider: - the legislative proposal (Mrs Nathalie Muylle, Mr Roel Deseyn, Mrs Els Van Hoof cs) introducing a reduced rate of VAT on her works, No. 2494/1; - the motion for a resolution (Mrs Meyrem Almaci, Mr Georges Gilkinet cs) on the conservation of Belfius in the hands of the Belgian State and its development into a model of sustainability for the banking sector, No. 2497/1;
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-01-54-plenair-ip171x.u92	- the bill (Mr Jef Van den Bergh cs) amending the Royal Decree of 1 December 1975 as regards the place on the road of speed pedals, No. 2495/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-01-54-plenair-ip171x.u93	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 31 May 2017, I also propose that you take into account: - the proposal for a law (Ms Nathalie Muylle, Mr Roel Deseyn, Mrs Els Van Hoof et al.) introducing a reduced VAT rate on capillary prostheses, No 2494/1; - the motion for a resolution (Ms Meyrem Almaci, Mr Georges Gilkinet et al.) on keeping Belfius in the hands of the Belgian State and its development into a model of sustainability for the banking sector, No 2497/1;
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-01-54-plenair-ip171x.u94	- the proposal for a law (Mr Jef Van den Bergh et al.) amending the Royal Decree of 1 December 1975 as regards the place of speed pedalecs on public roads, No 2495/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-01-54-plenair-ip171x.u95	Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-01-54-plenair-ip171x.u96	This inquiry was developed in a public meeting of the Committee on the Interior, General Affairs and the Civil Service of 23 May 2017. This interview was held at the public meeting of the Committee for the Interior, General Affairs and Public Administration of 23 May 2017. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 218/1): - a motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr. Georges Dallemagne; - a simple motion was tabled by Mr Emmanuel Burton. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 218/1): - a motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mr Georges Dallemagne; - a simple motion was tabled by Mr Emmanuel Burton. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put this motion to the vote. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-01-54-plenair-ip171x.u97	Mr. President, I have a pairing with Mrs. Ben Hamou. I shall therefore abstain from voting at this sitting.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-01-54-plenair-ip171x.u98	Start of voting / Start of the vote. Did everyone vote and check their vote? / Did everyone vote and check his voice? End of voting / End of vote. Result of the vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-01-54-plenair-ip171x.u99	Yes [[80]] Yes No. 61 No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 142 Total The simple motion was adopted. Therefore, the motion for recommendation is over. The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motion of recommendation lapses. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? [[No]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-01-54-plenair-ip171x.u100	This inquiry was developed in a public meeting of the Committee on External Relations on 23 May 2017. This interview was held at the public meeting of the External Relations Commission of 23 May 2017. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 214/1): - a motion of recommendation was tabled by Ms Gwenaëlle Grovonius and MM. Stéphane Crusnière and Dirk Van der Maelen; - a simple motion was tabled by Ms. Kattrin Jadin. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 214/1): - a motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mrs Gwenaëlle Grovonius and Mr Stéphane Crusnière and Mr Dirk Van der Maelen; - a simple motion was tabled by Mrs Kattrin Jadin. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put this motion to the vote. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-01-54-plenair-ip171x.u101	Mr President, thank you. Despite the end of the hunger strike and the progress achieved on item 8 of the motion tabled, the requests made to the government that are being taken up remain more topical than ever. I would like to mention a few of them: - To plead with the Israeli authorities to respect the international law of prisoners. - End all physical violence in prisons and imprisonment of minors. - Ensure prisoners have access to decent medical care. - Allow them to exercise their right to study during the period of imprisonment. The Government is also called upon to plead with the Israeli authorities to allow them to use public telephones identical to those of unattended detainees, to extend their visiting rights to representatives of humanitarian organizations and to immediately end the abuse of the administrative detention system. It is the requests contained in this motion that I hope will be able to receive the concurrence of my colleagues.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-01-54-plenair-ip171x.u102	Start of voting / Start of the vote. Did everyone vote and check their vote? / Did everyone vote and check his voice? End of voting / End of vote. Result of the vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-01-54-plenair-ip171x.u103	Yes [[80]] Yes No. [[60]] No Abstentions 2 Abstensions Total 142 Total The simple motion was adopted. Therefore, the motion for recommendation is over. The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motion of recommendation lapses. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? [[No]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-01-54-plenair-ip171x.u104	This inquiry was developed in a public meeting of the Public Health, Environment and Renewal Committee of the Society on 24 May 2017. This interview was held at the public meeting of the Commission for Health, the Environment and the Social Renewal of 24 May 2017. A motion of recommendation was tabled by Ms. Laurette Onkelinx. (MOT No 209/1) A motion of recommendation was tabled by Mrs Laurette Onkelinx. (MOT nr. 209/1) Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-01-54-plenair-ip171x.u105	Mr President, on the substance, we are talking about medical students, fellows, most of the time from developing countries, who come here to specialize in medicine. Our universities, from the North and the South, are very proud of this kind of receptions which, in addition to allowing these students to specialize, allow warm and fraternal agreements between universities. We were afraid, but the minister reassured us that this system was going to continue, on the understanding that it had to be based on serious cases and that we had to be sure that they were offered quality internships. Secondly, the minister reassured us of the government's willingness to untie the scholarship to allow our medical students in Belgium to access quality internships despite certain difficulties, due in particular to the dual cohort. That's the bottom line, but I also wanted to say something about the form. It is quite rare, in the end, that a motion of recommendation could arrive in plenary in a positive concerted manner. That is, we do not, as always, simply find ourselves with a motion of confidence in the government and a motion of distrust because it is a motion of the opposition. In committee, we succeeded in adopting this motion together, majority and opposition. I wanted to thank all my colleagues for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-01-54-plenair-ip171x.u106	Start of voting / Start of the vote. Did everyone vote and check their vote? / Did everyone vote and check his voice? End of voting / End of vote. Result of the vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-01-54-plenair-ip171x.u107	Yes [[55]] Yes No. [[85]] No Abstentions 2 Abstensions Total 142 Total The motion for a recommendation was not adopted. The motion of recommendation has not been adopted. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? [[No]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-01-54-plenair-ip171x.u108	Mr President, as my neighbour said, desperate songs are the most beautiful. I should like to point out that in committee there was a general consensus. Unfortunately, I note that in plenary, fear, chilliness and the use of the button press have again made their way. I really regret that, especially since in committee, the minister had tried to provide positive answers to my inquiry.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-01-54-plenair-ip171x.u109	I know I opened the door. I give you the floor, Mr. Thiéry.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-01-54-plenair-ip171x.u110	Mrs Onkelinx, on the merits, we can absolutely find ourselves there. It must be borne in mind that in the committee during which you put the question to the minister, the minister told you that we were in a budgetary framework which, at present, is not based on any real figures. She asked to be able to study the problem in depth. You've had answers to your questions. You even said: "Thank you, Madam Minister. That will not prevent me from tabling the motion." All right, we can follow you. At present, however, we do not have the budgetary details. That is why we are voting against.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-01-54-plenair-ip171x.u111	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-01-54-plenair-ip171x.u112	Mr President, we shall abstain on this text. I have noted the words of colleague Lalieux who said... [[Brouhahaha]] I'm just waiting for it to calm down. I quote: "Only Telenet does not pay copyright when it comes to direct injection. There is the question of the conflict of interest of some." I think she confirms what she said. Here, Mr President, I am looking at the code of ethics of the members of the House of Representatives and I see that Rule 5.2 states that "any member who finds that he or she is exposed to a conflict of interest shall report orally before any written or oral intervention - that was sometimes - and before voting in committee or in plenary session". Mr President, I therefore ask the question. Should no one in this House apply Article 5.2, for example those with a mandate at Telenet? I think there are some, perhaps even you, Mr. President. So I wonder if this is not the time to apply the code of ethics. This is a simple question that you can obviously answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-01-54-plenair-ip171x.u113	Mr Van Hees, I take note of your statement. Is anyone else asking for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes [[80]] Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 62 Abstensions Total 142 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (2451/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (2451/4) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-01-54-plenair-ip171x.u114	Mr President, I abstained, but in order for there to be no confusion, it is not because I would be in a situation of conflict of interest, but because I think it was useful to pair with those who might have been.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-01-54-plenair-ip171x.u115	Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check his voice? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 5) Yes [[80]] Yes No. 61 No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 142 Total Consequently, the Court accepts the rejection proposal. The proposal of Resolution No. 885/1 was therefore rejected. Accordingly, the board adopts the proposal to reject. Motion for a resolution No 885/1 is therefore rejected. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-01-54-plenair-ip171x.u116	We must proceed with the adoption of the agenda for Thursday 8 June 2017. We must proceed to the approval of the agenda of the sitting on Thursday, 8 June 2017. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] The agenda has been adopted. No observation? [[No]] The agenda was approved. The meeting is adjourned. Next sitting on Thursday, 8 June 2017 at 2.15 p.m. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Thursday 8 June 2017 at 2.15 p.m.
