ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip188x.u1	The meeting is open. The meeting was opened.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip188x.u2	The next item is the debate on the government statement. The next item is the discussion of the Government's statement. Mr Laaouej has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip188x.u3	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister, we have listened very carefully to you, as it should be in an assembly like ours. It is difficult, however, not to ask you from the outset whether there is not, between you and the social realities experienced by our fellow citizens, as a prism, a mismatch. You gave us a vision of society from your imagination. And, to put your story as credible, you have skillfully added some modesty accents. You have brought good governance, prosperity, security, growth and jobs to our country. Nothing less. You have aligned a series of figures more enchanting than each other by draping yourself with the sense of objectivity. But this is just a posture, Prime Minister, a posture that is not enough to mask more raw realities. Then let's break the ice! And ask us what is the cost to our public accounts of the measures you have taken. And then, above all, who will finally pay the price? You've shown a lot of satisfaction. But what are you satisfied with, basically? Are you satisfied that Belgium is almost the only European country where purchasing power has not increased in recent years? Are you satisfied with the spread of job insecurity? Do you take any pride, Prime Minister, in seeing that part time, imposed on women, is increasing considerably in our country? Are you happy to see that the price of so many drugs increases for sick people? Do you think, Prime Minister, sometimes of the workers in Caterpillar? That was a year ago. Do you think you have responded to the concerns of teachers, firefighters, medical personnel, railway workers, who will have to work longer? I could thus continue this sad series of examples, examples drawn from reality, from real life. The way our fellow citizens live on a daily basis. Realisms far removed from the figures that you mechanically aligned yesterday in this rostrum. We tell you very simply: we must return to earth. This is where it happens, in real life, far away from the one you told us about. Then, Prime Minister, you gave us a speech on the state of the Union, even though your government is lizarding and showing its disunity, week by week, day by day. You're at the head of a government arena that goes from bisbrouille to bisbrouille. Even as the country expects your government to respond to its difficulties, you spend the clearest of your time dealing with the problems that draw attention to the partners of your laborious coalition. So you spend more time resolving your disagreements than dealing with people's problems. The examples are shoveled. You have exhibited a trophy: a tax on security accounts. As soon as the measure is announced, the Minister of Finance, who is probably not very happy with it, announces that he does not believe it and that it will probably be defeated by the Council of State. Branch-bas de combat in the majority and return to the Council of Ministers for a reshaping. This has earned you in a daily newspaper, which is not known for its outrages, a very evocative editorial where it is referred to as a "government of amateurs". On the pension file, after different bell sounds on the pension of the elderly unemployed and, it was believed, a reminder of your so-called summer agreement, the Open Vld announces the tabling of a bill that Minister Bacquelaine immediately refutes. This cacophony intervenes on the sensitive subject of pensions that become, with you, the instrument of your internal quarrels. Prime Minister, this limits to indecency, let me tell you. The list of your buffaloes could go on. They're on people's backs. The scope of privatizations expands day by day. We know Belfius will be there. Proximus is also in the collimator, as well as SNCB. I wouldn't talk about it if it hadn't come out of the mouth of an N-VA minister. You and your services denied, and then a member of the Open Vld suggested that the subsidiaries could be. Do you realize the signal sent to users and agents of this public service? The SNCB, already in bad shape, becomes hostage to your discords and overbidding. This is totally unacceptable! [[Applause on PS and sp.a benches]] In the same register, the Minister of Defence explains to Parliament that with regard to the replacement of the F-16s, the French offer is rejected. He was led to say the opposite 24 hours later. We're not talking about a detail here. We're talking about a case that weighs billions and will heavily impact our public finances. The editorial was perhaps still very tender when he spoke of a "government of amateurs". We could go on with the florileg. I am also thinking of those Members of the majority who claimed to have an agreement on Panama Papers with the lifting of bank secrecy. It did not take 24 hours for the CD&V and the Open Vld to show their disagreement in view of the greatest number. For public opinion, this is an extra pantsnade, and it is certainly not the last one on this issue. The most serious of all, it is the incartades and matamaursque exits of one of your ministers that no longer needs to be named. It is true that the government follows him as one man on the sulphurous path he has taken and which degrades the image and vocation of our country in its attachment to certain fundamental values. You will one day be an accountant, and you know that, Prime Minister. Fortunately, there were voices on the benches of the majority, some in the liberal ranks, who wanted to remain discreet – I can respect it but I regret it. Others from the Christian Democratic family, on the CD&V benches, expressed their outrage. I want to pay tribute here to the courage of our colleague, Eric Van Rompuy, who has said all his disgust. He may have reminded you that all the legal arguments of the world will never be worth democratic ethics or respect for human dignity, Prime Minister. [[Applause on PS and sp.a benches]] On democratic ethics, a small word on the Catalan issue. A little word, because I know that the issue is complex and that it deserves better than vain political controversy. However, a major event took place yesterday, with the declaration of independence and a call for dialogue. You can see that things are not simple. But, Prime Minister, in the concert of European nations, there is a time when you are asked to take a clear and unambiguous position. At that time, you will have to live up to your function. It is not just the Rajoy government, there is Spain as a whole, a friendly country and a member of the European Union. You will have to say exactly what Belgium's position is because, in the concert of European nations, you represent all of us and you represent the values that we believe in, Prime Minister. As I said, your government is that of the bulldozers. You're wasting a lot of time and you're also the government of social insecurity. Ms Demir explains that you will not live up to your commitment to bring the allowances to the poverty line. Cynicism, impotence or mixture of the two, let's know! Confirm, Prime Minister, that you will not live up to the commitment you made, namely to bring the allowances at least to the level of the poverty line. Should I remind you that it is not only the middle classes that have had to suffer your attacks on their income or social protection? The most fragile also pay heavily for the effects of your policy. Beneficiaries have had to suffer, like workers, your index jump, your tax increases – the one on electricity – or the increase in the cost of health care or certain medicines. I would like to say to Mr Ducrame, who has slightly apostrophe me in the media, that of course we can act on the revalorisations that have taken place, in particular on the income of social integration – he is not here but you will pass on the message to him. I will be objective and of good count: among the revalorisations, there were also indexations – it would no longer be lacking that you did not respect them! – and, as in the past, part of the envelope related to well-being. But let's be lucid! Mr. Ducrame is going to be that sailor who is scrambling a boat while others are filling it with water. Mr. Ducrame leads the boat of social integration while you fill it with precariousness. Be careful not to make Mr. Ducrame a "sparadrap minister" of social integration, because that is also the reality of your government: a government that is precautioning at arm's length. On the other hand, reductions in social contributions will deprive social security by adding €8 billion over the legislature. Do not lose sight of the fact that, by the index jump, you have punctured 2.5 billion wages a year, or 12.5 billion in total over the legislature. This makes 20 billion accumulated over the entire legislature, taken directly into the hands of workers or indirectly through social security. We understand that the FEB gives you a good newsletter. When you definance social security at this point, you are undermining the standard of living of our fellow citizens and workers in particular. You take the risk, which you visibly assume, of strengthening the precarization of our social fabric. Basically, what you're doing is a transfer of social security and wages to shareholders. It's a formula I used this morning in the media. I'll take care of it. When we look at the figures and see the increase in the profits of BEL 20 companies – I only count those – this is more than 13% in a year, while Belgium is the only country in Europe – sad reality – where we see stagnation in the purchasing power of workers, with wages rising by only 0.3%. You empty the social security funds and you are surprised that you cannot absorb or, at the very least, alleviate poverty. Prime Minister, it's not just the shareholders that matter. There are also workers who make our country run on a daily basis with their labour force. They too have the right to be rewarded by a fair sharing of the wealth produced. Having imposed an index jump on them eventually proved to be as damaging to the economy as it was unfair to them. We will never stop telling you, Prime Minister. The index jump, I said, lost 2% of salary. This is a permanent and cumulative loss of 400 euros per year on average, or 25 000 euros over a career. The European Commission figures show that while wages in Europe increased by 0.7% in 2017, they increased by only 0.1% in Belgium. Indeed, we see the widening of wage inequalities for Belgian workers. You repeat once again your mantra: reduce wage differentials to have extra jobs. In short, impoverishing workers to create jobs. That is, in short, your policy. But in addition to your anti-salarial policy, there is a more widespread degradation of purchasing power. I come to your famous formula: "We have allocated workers a thirteenth month." Show me the worker who will come and explain to us that he received a thirteenth month. For what you never say, Prime Minister, is that in front of your income tax cuts – which exist, not for everyone, for only a few of the workers – there is an index jump; there are increases in consumption taxes; there is an increase in the cost of health care. In a typical situation, compared to the 1,900 euros you post as a trophy, there are sometimes 1,800 euros of taxes, index jumps or increases in health care costs that weigh on the household budget! Should I also point out that several million pensioners and social workers do not benefit from any tax reduction related to your shift tax? And it's even worse! We are not talking enough about this in this Parliament: you have frozen, for four years, the indexing of the tax advantages of pensioners and beneficiaries. Prime Minister, you will also have to be accountable at some point. On the legislature, you have, and I have recalled, carried out a tax baton of more than 3 billion euros in taxes on consumption. It's never before seen! At the same time as you degrade through taxation, by means of wages, you also degrade the labour law, this wall that must exist between employers and workers. You're gonna get them to work overtime, with 45-hour weeks. You tear up the social contract on one of its cardinal points: pensions. Nevertheless, in spite of your pre-election commitments, you are pushing the legal age of retirement to 67 years. In the end, you have to work more to earn less. Do you realize the insecurity in which you place millions of our fellow citizens? Indeed, if there is something that defines the social contract, it is pensions. With the stabbing of a gun, you've come to tear this social contract apart. This is not over since we are being announced new reforms that will further weaken entire parts of the pension system. Prime Minister, you justify your attacks on workers by arguing that this is the only way to create jobs. That's not true! I invite you to read the reports of the National Bank and the Planning Office. Do I have to remind you that even with weak growth, there is always job creation? To say the opposite is not to know the economics. But the jobs you say you have created are not enough to compensate for the increase in the working-age population. You're talking about linear numbers. I'm talking about the employment rate. The reality is that in Belgium, although there is a very small improvement, the figures remain below those of other European countries. You're talking about an employment rate that goes from 67.2% to 67.5%. I take your figures to better indicate that, compared to a growth of 0.5% in Belgium, the euro area has an employment rate growth of 1%, twice as much. I can even, Mr Prime Minister, take another angle, based on figures from the National Bank or the European Commission. There is also something to make you modest. Indeed, in 2017 in Europe, the number of lower jobs increased by 1.4%, compared with 0.9% in Belgium. That is the reality of your policy. So your recipes don't convince. They only convince you. We are doing less well than elsewhere in Europe. In addition to draining the state funds, you've cut wages. So there is a double loss, both for our economy and for workers. But the sharpest criticism of your policy comes from the University of Ghent. The Commission has assessed the cost to public finances and social security of the jobs you claim to create. According to this university, based on figures from the Bureau du Plan et de la BNB, every job you create, and which you charge to the tax shift, would cost between 102,000 and 146,000 euros! I'm not the one who says it, but the University of Ghent. You said you wanted to be modest. I understand you. There are reasons to be. I therefore encourage you to finally admit that your economic policy is a failure. Professor Peersman, since he is the one in question, concludes in these terms: "The creation of jobs is more due to European economics than to government policy." It seems to me that this lighting should, perhaps, lead you slowly to think. On the subject of employment, Prime Minister, you who claim to be working for the workers, I would like to ask you a very simple question: what have you done in the last year to prevent new tragedies such as Caterpillar from happening again? That is what you should answer, Prime Minister! In view of this system that allows perpetually obsessed groups – and you have levers, especially with the Minister of Finance! – through the distribution of dividends to shareholders, in contempt of workers, after the social dramas we experienced last year, we expected a strong reaction from the government. You even announced it. It wasn't. Yesterday, Prime Minister, you did not have a single word for the former workers of Caterpillar, nor for those of ING, 3M, RTL, Blokker, Bombardier – to name but a few examples. No, you hammered your usual slogan: "Jobs, jobs, jobs." But not a word of empathy or compassion for all the workers trained in the torment of massive restructuring! [[Applause on PS benches]] On the contrary, when we look at your agreement this summer – we'll see what you're going to table in parliament – you've made the choice to facilitate layoffs and further weaken workers. I am sorry to tell you: I see indifference, if not a form of contempt for the world of work. Finally, Prime Minister, let me return to one of your assertions, which I am sure will have received the attention of many of us and which I have no doubt will open up a dispute of numbers. Perhaps this will allow us to get some things straight. I hear you're quoting ONSS about the evolution of job insecurity. However, something surprised me in your formulation. You said that you had created 130,000 jobs – I explained how much that had to be nuanced – by saying that, for the most part, this was a full-time job, the number of which you estimate to be 60,000. You will clarify your thought, but tell us that this last figure is the essential, it seems to me an abuse of language. We went to check the numbers. We have consulted Eurostat, and what have we found? In the period 2014-2016, 70% of all jobs created in Belgium, which you attribute to the tax shift, were part-time – especially women's work. That is the reality of the figures, Prime Minister! And there's worse! It's worse and it's probably the heart of my speech. There's worse. We ask you, Prime Minister, to fight social dumping more effectively. You represent us at European level. There seems to be unanimity to say that more needs to be done. I heard Mr Clarinval talk about it on a television set, which knows – I must say – certain economic realities. But while we are asking you to fight social dumping at European level, what are you doing at national level? You're introducing Belgian social dumping. You extend the area of precarisation of employment with flexi-jobs, with the introduction of acting in the public service, with a tailor-made status for Uber workers and the famous collaborative economy that continues to grow. Flexi-jobs, I said, first the Horeca and, now, the retail trade. You even ask pensioners to work in precarious conditions and we don't know, tomorrow, in what other sector, you're going to expand this precarious way of getting people to work. You are introducing competition in Belgium between workers, between those who have a good job and those who have a poor job to ensure that there is pressure on those who have a full-time job and who work in good conditions because, tomorrow, employers will be able to shop. That is the reality of your policy!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip188x.u4	Mr. Laaouej, Mr. Dewael wishes to interrupt you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip188x.u5	I'd love to.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip188x.u6	Mr President, I will make my speech in Dutch, the simultaneous translation works. I don't follow. Mr Laaouej hangs up an image and he mentions a figure. He points to the level of activity or effectiveness of our country, which is 67 percent. I shall return to that in my speech. That figure must indeed be higher. He refers to countries of the European Union where that percentage is much higher. I could refer to the Netherlands, Germany or the Scandinavian countries. They arrive at an activity rate of almost 80%. Two cases one. When it is said that these countries are more effective in terms of their effectiveness, we should also look at the measures taken by these countries. On the one hand, Germany, the Netherlands and the Scandinavian countries cannot be put forward as models and, on the other hand, the measures taken in these countries can be condemned. Germany is regularly cited here by the PS. People talk about mini-jobs, the precarious jobs, among other things. Those jobs do count in the calculation of an activity rate. So I don't follow. Mr Laaouej, if you are in favour of the German and Dutch models, then I conclude that the Parti Socialiste has been won today for the measures taken there. However, you are not. You praise the results, but you denounce the politics that is being pursued there. Secondly, you are talking about the pre-carisation of jobs. What the hell is wrong with the fact that people want to work part-time, entirely according to their own choices? What's against a flexi job now? Mr Laaouej, you mentioned interim jobs in the government. Actually, I'm ashamed that it's only now that an interim job in the government becomes possible. What the hell is against that? I was in government negotiations in 2008. At that time, there was already talk of acting in public services. The Walloon Region was already doing so in practice! They didn't want to hear about it, they didn't want to hear about it, they did it a little and tough. In the Walloon Region temporary agency work was applied here and there, but if they wanted to register it in a government agreement, they could not. Interim jobs are not allowed in the government. Can you explain to me what the hell you can have against the fact that someone who doesn't have a job today can end up in the labour market because he has an interim job and may be able to move on to a part-time job and even a full-time one? Can you explain that to me? I don't understand.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip188x.u7	Ladies and gentlemen, I have no problem with interruptions, but I would ask you to limit them to two minutes. I give the floor again to Mr Laaouej.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip188x.u8	Let us be careful: I thank Mr Dewael. His questions are very interesting. It may be recalled that he was asking for group leaders not to be interrupted, but that is no big deal. I'll answer you. I am going from your assertion: everyone has the right to choose a part-time job. When you have a single parent family, when you have to take care of your children's education alone and pay rent; when you don't know how to manage your time and the difficulties you face are insurmountable, do you really think you have a choice? Do you think employers still offer full-time, stable and well-paid jobs? Sometimes people can only take what they're offered. You don't know the realities! You live out of reality! From time to time, visit single-parent workers and families and, in particular, women who are the main victims of your anti-social policy. For the rest, you venture into the public service field. It's a piece of land I know a little bit about. There has always been a regulatory framework for dealing with urgent needs: specific auxiliary tasks, exceptional and temporary needs, all situations where jobs can be used in the very short term. This has always existed. But the Socialist Group is honoured to refuse the introduction of flexi-jobs and acting in the public service. Because we rely on it to deliver quality services to citizens. Tomorrow you're going to ask an ISI inspector, social inspectors, clerks, magistrates, to work on an ad interim basis? Is that your vision of society? When it comes to the functions of authority and the public service, we have no right to envy the precarization at work, today, in the world of wage-earners. On the contrary, we want stable and quality jobs. Your binary logic is a rhetoric I won't fall into. The trap is big: "Look at Germany, the Scandinavian countries: they do much better than we do! You're not consistent." Mr Dewael, do you imagine the brutality with which you treated the workers? The index jump, a punction on the legislature of 12.5 billion on wages! Can you imagine what this means in terms of the overall impoverishment of our workers? Mr Dewael, with the cuts in social security that will result in massive budgetary difficulties - I will come back and that will be my conclusion - you will not get away with it! Do you realize the problems in which you are going to plunge the whole population? If the economic fabric of Germany or other countries is to be compared with ours, let us look at underinvestment in research and development. What has your government done to strengthen the quality of our economic fabric and allow us to gain export shares? Nothing! You signed blank cheques without any consideration. No jobs or investments! It is here today, the failure of your policy! I was just coming to the passage where I explained to you that we had another vision of the economy, but I think I just explained it. So I'm going to be able to slide to the next page. Simply, Prime Minister Dewael, I am not the only one to say this, since the OECD and even the IMF - which I never thought I should ever mention, but everything happens - point out to you that addressing inequalities strengthens the economy. It is the OECD that says so, Mr Dewael! So say once and for all that it is not wages that lead the economy; it is your austerity policy that seriously harms it. A word about public services. I turn to see if Mr. Bellot is with us, but he's not here. He called yesterday for less disruption. It is audible, understandable and respectable on the part of a Minister of Mobility. But we too have requests to make to him. Mr Bellot, are you ready to ask your colleague Bacquelaine to come back to the pension reform that affects public service workers, for example, medical staff (including nurses) and railway workers? They will be hard hit by your reforms, because they will have to work longer. The Prime Minister paid tribute to the medical staff, but can you imagine how insecure he is when he is in a difficult job and is going to have to work longer for a discount pension? In other words, Mr. Bellot, even if you're not here, but the government will send you the message, you're making requests, too. Are you going to rebut the desire of some to precarize the public service? Are you going to conjure up this fiery, anti-public service obsession? And also, stop, Mr. Bellot and others, your provocations. You're definanceing SNCB. You cause as much as possible the insufficiency of the transport service, but you advocate the minimum service. Again, this is not consistent. People feel it as a provocation; this is what public service officials say. Above all, what is most unacceptable is that you polarize the debate when you seek, in the name of a petty politician's policy, to oppose users to agents. There is no need to oppose users to agents. When you're for public services, you think about the users and the agents. Our public services are not a disembodied reality! Behind the public services are men and women who carry them on a daily basis and perform their duties professionally. Since I'm talking about public services, I can't not talk about security. I won't be long. There would be a lot to say and I have excellent colleagues who could talk about it better than I do, I do not disagree. Nevertheless, there is one thing in the news of the last few days that has struck me strongly: the problem of road safety. It's very concrete. One of my colleagues pointed out that in Hainaut, only three teams - I think everyone is sitting well - of two people are responsible for covering the entire territory of Hainaut province during the night to ensure road safety! Can you imagine the risks that people get caught up in, the disarray in which people are placed who have to wait hours before the police arrive, even if only to see an accident? This is your disinvestment in public services! It also affects the police and we expect you, Mr. Minister of the Interior, to finally fill the necessary personnel throughout the territory. This is essential and it is becoming urgent! I think there are a lot of people here who are attached to municipal life, to local authorities. Happily indeed! Today, whenever you can, your budget deficit leads you to transfer the charges to the local authorities: the emergency zones, the police zones, social assistance! The negative impact of your tax reform on local government finances and perhaps tomorrow the reform of the hospital service, we will see. In other words, whenever you find it difficult to meet your budgetary obligations, because you mismanage the public accounts, you refer to the local authorities. It is a way of working that is not worthy of a government that seeks to guarantee federalism, federal loyalty and respect for users! Because behind the communes, there are users waiting for them to be served with quality! The sloppyness of public services does not come from anywhere. This is the opportunity here to ensure a transition to public finances. Here too, we are very far from your early parliamentary commitments. You postpone the fiscal balance after 2020 and you tell us, Prime Minister: "I don't want to slow the recovery of the economy." That's your argument. We understand it because we are not ourselves either for fiscal fetishism. Except that the return to balance in 2018 was part of your government agreement! How did we get there? This has come about because, I repeat, your government has embarked on an expensive policy of blank cheques, reductions in social contributions, unfunded tax reforms. That's what the National Bank and the Plan Office told you right from the start. What you said, "No, there will be back effects." The return effects are not there, Prime Minister, which is why you are postponing your balance. That being said, we are not going to encourage you to pursue a policy of austerity, let it be clear! But at the same time, I would like to draw your attention – and I think you have on these issues, in spite of everything, a sharpness, which perhaps other members of your government do not share – to corporate tax reform. For the past few days, a picture has been circulating in the media, showing how you plan to finance corporate reform. Don't get caught, Prime Minister! We're talking about a five-billion-dollar steering wheel. And when I see the way some people try to convince you that it will be budget neutral, it's all around you, it's smoking! We have to stop the crazy train! When you're told that by 2020, we're going to go look for 2.3 billion on notional interests by removing them, wait! Wait! Notional interests that, if today they are removed, would only earn 400 million, does it mean that there is in the government a magician who already knows what the rate of notional interest will be in 2019? Don't get caught! For after not having financed the tax shift, not financing the reform of the corporate tax, let it be clear, and I am telling you without a doubt, it is clearly leading the country to fiscal ruin! You would be the first to be responsible, and you should be held accountable when the time comes, Prime Minister. We are not against corporate tax reform, as long as it is linked to investment and innovation, provided it is targeted at SMEs! This may already solve the problem of fiscal steering. But there is a very important marker: we do not want a shift bis tax that will ruin the budget and which, by ricochet, again will lead you to confuse social security with a cash drawer. That is precisely what we do not want! I conclude, Mr. President, and thank you for your tolerance... with regard to speaking time. On the subject of public debt, my faith, there would be much to say. You are going to see the European Commission and you are probably going to say to it: "The deficit is not being eliminated. We're letting the deficit go, but we're going to go out of debt." To do this, you obviously have only one solution: resell the assets. You have used a kind of litot or euphemism: "the dynamic management of state assets". No! Privatization, it must be said! Belfius first, Proximus arrives and we even heard about SNCB. It's a leak forward and it's a miscalculation. I do not have time to develop, I may do so later, but I have already explained it to the Minister of Finance. Another point for the Minister of Justice who has just been absent is the reform of legal aid which is disastrous for access to justice. We have concrete figures. It is also the reform of a whole series of areas of justice in proceedings and disinvestment. I do not rely here on the recent example of what is happening at the Registry of the Brussels Court of First Instance, which is completely closed for the filing of the documents. In short, you are making a massive disinvestment in justice and setting up a two-speed justice system. Ladies and gentlemen, yesterday, you tried to make it look like almost everything was going well in our country. The Socialist Group notes that your government is far removed from the realities of the vast majority of the population. Your Government will aggravate the inequalities, preserve the most affluent in our country, without ever taking into account the difficulties of workers, pensioners, the sick and the social beneficiaries. Your entire policy is helping to increase inequalities, to make workers worse, and to clear the state's coffers. You are very far away, Prime Minister, from our idea of shared prosperity and social cohesion, which, obviously, we do not give the same meaning. For this reason, we cannot trust you. [[Applause on PS benches]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip188x.u9	Colleagues, the head is off, as they say. I have indeed been a bit lenient to the first opposition party, which, according to tradition, is the first to be given the floor. From now on, I suggest that we do as best we can... It is the largest opposition party. I therefore propose that from now on we stick to the agreed speaking time of 20 minutes.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip188x.u10	Mr President, I do not want to give the impression that we are taking away more from the people than is already being said. That is why I would like to return the fountain pen to Mr Laaouej, whom I congratulate, not so much for the content of his speech but for the fact that he spoke here for the first time as group chairman. [[Applause]] I do not mind you giving yourself a little less time, Mr President. As they say, only lawyers with bad records need a lot of words. So I can be much more concise. What is most striking, contrary to the impression given over the last few months, is that this State of the Union demonstrates that this government, fortunately but not, is not going to stop, to the regret of whom it envies. We do indeed have a good project on the table, even in the second half of this legislature. That is a compromise between different parties. I am always surprised that it has been pointed out that this government consists of four different parties. Well, that's right. Nor do we intend to merge. We have our own social and programmatic approach to reality. What the Prime Minister put forward yesterday is not an N-VA declaration but a State of the Union of the government. That is the government that we loyally support within the idea of compromise, which makes sense. The unity of government policy is being demonstrated here. This is the place where laws are passed. This is the place where a policy is supported. The fact that discussions are taking place, that there is an input from political parties and from partners, does not bother me at all within a democratic reality. It is perhaps hard for the opposition to establish that, according to the compromises agreed up to today and until the end of the legislature, we will be working together. For my group, the starting point is always the general interest. Private interests should not serve as a benchmark. However, this happens too often. Especially with a reform government, with a government proposing changes to the status quo, there are always so-called winners and losers. In our view, the revision of privileges is not so much the reduction of business, it is simply the breaking of taboos, which always cost us too much of social progress in the long run. That is a courageous but also the only correct approach to politics. That is why we are calling for value-driven realism. We prefer that to inspired but often hollow rhetoric. Mr Prime Minister, I would like to comment on a number of points that you raised yesterday in the gallery. Firstly, you stated in the international part of your speech that Europe represents a thought and a dream. This is, of course, also the dream of the free expression of citizens and the high good of self-determination. For example, you pointed out that solutions, which are currently at stake, must fit in with the international order between Barcelona and Madrid. For the sake of international order, I would like to refer to the United Nations Charter, which, fortunately, calls the right of self-determination of peoples fundamental and pushes forward. Yesterday, Puigdemont showed a sign of dialogue, which we were unfortunately not allowed to see on the Madrid side. I therefore hope that our government will continue to draw the line of value-driven realism, promoting dialogue and giving room for the free expression of the will of Catalans. You also mentioned the European dream, and you said that it should be closer to the expectations of the citizens. We are also in complete agreement with this statement. In this respect, it has often been missed in the past. Can I, however, put three clamps on it? This is yet another realistic project, which is all the more important, to restore citizens' support and confidence in the European project. That is, firstly, strengthening the internal market because it promotes prosperity. Secondly, guaranteeing a solid basis for the euro coin, which means strict compliance with convergence criteria, so that we have a solid currency. Thirdly, the control and control of external borders, so that the opening up of internal borders remains a viable option in the future. I would like to add, of course, the respect for European diversity. Those are the points on which European citizens are not only awakened today, but which they also see threatened and on which they are threatening to give up their confidence. If, as you said, we want to be in the cockpit of the European idea, then I believe that these four key points should be taken into account. I'd also like to cut the Brexit. You've done the same. You rightly said that our economic interests must be safeguarded. Our group regrets that we have to say goodbye to the British as a member of the European Union, but the decision has been taken and the facts are more important than the Lord Mayor of London, as is sometimes said there. You rightly pointed out that Britain is our fourth trading partner, and that means that these important economic interests, especially for Flanders and therefore for the whole country, should encourage us to help find good solutions, a soft Brexit, to put it this way, and that this great caution should be over ideological sharpening. After all, we do not forget that your beautiful adagium jobs, jobs and jobs will be determined by success or failure. We have no interest in making the British enemies of a country like ours, which borders on the North Sea. The choices to be made within Europe must not only be seen on the basis of the interests of the large Member States, such as Paris and Berlin. Not only do they belong in the cockpit. Europe must be a project of all European nations and must also serve the interests of all European Member States. That's it. That's it. That's it. That's it. That's it. The economic and social objectives of the government are well known, namely to make work more rewarding. We are doing so, the tax shift, the rising purchasing power, especially for lower and middle wages. You have also rightly pointed out that this basic social policy is also in place.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip188x.u11	Mr De Roover, I have listened very carefully to your European discourse. Yesterday I thought I'd see a copy of Emmanuel Macron here. Today I hear something completely different, so there seems to me to be a certain discord. However, I would like to ask you a question, although I know that, as usual, you will, of course, ride around the question very handyly, but I would like to ask you this. Yesterday I heard the Prime Minister on Catalonia say the following: "Spain is facing a serious institutional crisis. The Spanish Constitutional Court invalidated the referendum." This means that the Prime Minister here accepts the role and function of the Spanish Constitutional Court on behalf of all government parties. I got away from that last week. I have made it clear that a court of law must comply with certain standards, that of impartiality and independence. I believe that the Spanish Constitutional Court does not respond to that. What's your vision on that? Do you share the Prime Minister's view, in which he appears to be taking the stand in the case of judgments handed down by an operetta Constitutional Court conducted from Madrid?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip188x.u12	Unless I've been listening badly, your quote wasn't complete. It may be that the other half of your group will supplement that later. I've read: "We call for de-escalation, in favour of a peaceful, negotiated solution, consistent with the rule of law, national and international order." I have just pointed out that there is also an international order which must be respected. That is an important addition for us. Quite rightly, you fully agree with me on this, I note that serious questions can be asked when a Spanish Constitutional Court acts or the basis on which a Spanish Constitutional Court acts. It is the government in Madrid itself that can make a referendum possible. It is not forbidden to hold a referendum. Apparently, it is reflected in Madrid's admission. I have serious questions about that. That is why I believe that there can be clashes between the values we put forward, within which we must operate. I hope that the dialogue which has been clearly expressed from the Catalan side, yesterday, may also lead to the Spanish legal order being in line with the logic of the international legal order and the principles of law which we share in it. I come to the socio-economic part: making work pay more, reducing the tax burden. That may go a little further and further, but the trend is clear and we are in a budgetary reality which we must not lose sight of.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip188x.u13	I would like every speaker to go to the end of his argument. (...): (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip188x.u14	It's the Open Vld's fault!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip188x.u15	Mr President, the N-VA Group Leader has a 20-minute speaking time and he has already spoken for ten minutes about Catalonia. I think there is a big gap between the concerns of this group and those of the citizens of this country.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip188x.u16	That we work with different clocks, I've noticed that before. Yours is somewhere in a different universe than mine. We want to reduce the public debt, and we are happy to do so. Getting public finances in order. The previous speaker referred to himself as a rather mild referee. You say that we did not achieve the target of 0 %. That's right. It's true, we didn't make it. We also regret that. However, if I compare the result that we are going to produce with the result that we have inherited, then I believe that our effort, within the context in which we have decided, unlike the governments of which you have been a member, is not to open the tap, while we have the objective of a structural deficit of almost 3% of the target to dive below 1%, in any case, is a highly justifiable option. Someone from our group will come back to pension reform later. It is of course of the utmost importance. The same applies to the systematic increase in benefits under the poverty policy.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip188x.u17	On that point, I would very much like to have the floor. Mr De Roover, I am very pleased that you are quoting the increase in benefits. I have to say, I really can't follow anymore. You are going to help me and if that misunderstanding is finally resolved today, I will be happy to do so, and with me also the 15% of people living in poverty in our country. What I cannot follow is that the Secretary of State for Combating Poverty, in principle the lady who should be most fiercely on the barricades for the fight against poverty, announced on Sunday that the raising of benefits would be released to the poverty line. That's what she said in the seventh day. Yesterday, however, the Prime Minister said that it is and remains the ambition to raise these benefits. Then my question is whether that really is the ambition of this government, yes or no? Can we take care of the N-VA and Secretary of State Demir or not? I think that's something fundamental. The most vulnerable in our society are now beginning to deserve clarity. Why do they deserve clarity, ladies and gentlemen? I quote Bart De Wever in 2014: "The raising of the lowest benefits to the poverty line, not less, but actually reaching that poverty line, is a matter of decency. The N-VA has not been clear about this so far. I would very much like to hear from you, Mr De Roover, whether we are going to do so, yes or no. Is it the Michel version or the Demir version of Sunday?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip188x.u18	You were in the seventh day's studio on Sunday, Mr Calvo. So you could have heard it directly. She has never said that she will let go of the raising of the minima. The minimums have also been raised continuously. It will also happen further, but it has been said that it must be done within a realistic framework. The Prime Minister said yesterday that it remains the objective to promote... he used that term. We share this objective and we continue to share it, but you will not be able to blame us permanently for not keeping an eye on the budget deficit and at the same time for not paying attention to the money. A total of nine increases have already been made. The measures taken in this area mean that our policy in this area is stark against everything that has been done in this area in the past. Mr Calvo, if the effort to go through this whole journey is great today, it is because the efforts were at a very low point when we inherited it. The effort would be much smaller if the previous governments had assumed their responsibilities in this area. We'll take it. We will continue to do so within a realistic framework. Also, and in particular, Mrs Demir will be very pleased that we can complete the journey. Do not blame her that she does not deceive the public and that she points to the difficult budgetary situation and does not say, for that is wrong, that she lets go of the raising of the minimums. It has not only the aim of raising the minima, it also happens in practice. Don't ignore that.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip188x.u19	Mr Calvo, I must remind you of the agreement. The comment has been made. The reply has been given. If we now set in motion a system of endless replies and answers, we will not keep to the agreements. A brief reply, Mr Calvo.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip188x.u20	I understand that this is a difficult point for the majority and for Mr De Roover... [[Rumor]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip188x.u21	Stop it. You'll get a brief reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip188x.u22	Mr De Roover, since when has it been your only ambition to do better than the previous government? In fact, with this government, the gap between living wages and the poverty line has increased since 2014. In 2014, this gap was 265 euros. That was the difference between the living wage and the poverty line. The living wage goes up, but the shopping cart is also getting more expensive. Today the gap is 284 euros. Secondly, Mr De Roover, you did not answer my question and so I shall repeat it. You are frighteningly concrete when it comes to reducing the burden on companies. You are frighteningly concrete when it comes to savings in social security, if it has to be until the end of the day. So I would also like to know the following from the N-VA. Commitment 13 from the N-VA programme, raising benefits to the poverty line, will you do so, yes or no?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip188x.u23	Mr President, I honestly have a problem with the way you are leading this debate. You must allow for a parliamentary debate, you must not nip the parliamentary debate in the bud. You have allowed Mr Dewael to go well beyond those two minutes, then you must do the same with others. I also read your tweets this weekend. You seem to prefer that some people don't speak. That is not your job as chairman of parliament. Moderate a debate. Make it possible. Don't smear it in the bud like you're doing right now.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip188x.u24	Mr Vuye, I would like to warn you, if you want to avoid what happened last year, namely that you can speak yourself after everyone else, then you should continue. It was the explicit intention of the Conference of Presidents not to go through this again. So there's gonna have to be a little discipline.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip188x.u25	Mr De Roover, I would like to point out that Mrs Maggie De Block was responsible for the fight against poverty in the previous government. If you blame that government for doing too little, you should talk to your colleague. I am also particularly pleased that you are suddenly saying that the socialists in the previous government were not the big spenders who were irresponsible with taxpayers' money.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip188x.u26	Mrs De Coninck, if you had spent the money on it, that would not have been irresponsible. What you have done is what we call irresponsible. May I return to the State of the Union for a moment?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip188x.u27	(...) [[Not containing micro]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip188x.u28	Mr Calvo, we are going to increase the benefits as we have done, but you are in a very binary logic because you think that you can score points. We had the objective of bringing the budgetary balance to 0 per cent, but within a certain reality we have to make choices. These choices will be made in a balanced way. We shall avoid the fall in unemployment, for example, Mr Calvo. Measures at one level will also require action on the other, and we must also ensure that work actually pays off and that the difference between working and not working remains sufficiently stimulating. You're losing sight of that. We don't do that. That too is part of the policy that we must not forget.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip188x.u29	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip188x.u30	I am surprised that we are making an appointment at the Conference of Presidents...
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip188x.u31	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip188x.u32	You don't know about that?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip188x.u33	(...) return. But this is a parliamentary debate. There one may interrupt one another and intervene. I would like to make two observations: this is my last interruption on this point; I will perhaps interrupt Mr De Roover on other points. Firstly, the N-VA does not answer the question. Yesterday, the Prime Minister said that it remains the government's ambition. Today, the N-VA does not want that commitment to benefits and poverty. Secondly, Mr De Roover, you are talking about binary logic. Well, this is indeed about something very binary. This is about a lot of compatriots who are wondering whether or not they will make it to the end of the month. Those many people stay in the cold because of you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip188x.u34	Mr Calvo is the leader of a political group when it suits him and he is not the leader of a political group when it suits him less well. That is the advantage of a unitary Confederal Group. That has a lot of advantages. The balance we find on the path of reform that we are moving forward remains within the logic of the first half of the legislature. I would like to express a number of reservations. We don't live on an island, we don't react in a vacuum. I think I remember, and I will not mention any names, because the Internet is inexcusable in this respect, that there are quite a few people on the left who have greatly welcomed the election of Macron. Today, he is pursuing a policy with which he even tightens back a capital tax. It is called economically harmful by the same Macron. I am not saying that we should, by definition, take an example of this. All I can say is that we operate in an international space that cannot blind us. The Dutch Government has decided to bring the tax on dividends, on shares, to zero. Professor Maus says that a lot of Dutch is spoken in Antwerp, but soon many Flemish in Amsterdam. I believe that these are realities that we must not close our eyes to. Quite a coincidence, I recently read a study by the Institut für Wirtschaftsforschung in Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung. That article will soon be published in the American Economic Review. According to this study, raising taxes for companies is paid at least half by the employees, by lowering or reducing wages. These are elements that seem to be usually forgotten in rather straightforward reasonings. Especially those who are weaker, such as women and people in poorly paid sectors, are generally the biggest victims of such policies. Such elements are therefore not decisive, but we are taking them with us. For this reason, our tax policy does not follow exclusively the so-called good intentions, which usually lead to hell. We are all in favour of fair taxation; I do not think anyone here will argue against it. However, every time I hear the left side argue for an adjustment of the current tax system because it would be unfair, that seems to me to be a sledgehammer to the left in its own face. The so-called unfair tax system that we should now adapt is a legacy that we have received from the previous governments. (...): With Didier Reynders as Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip188x.u35	Yes, Reynders, but the difference between the previous and the current government is not the MR. The difference is that the PS was replaced by the N-VA. You can measure the difference.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip188x.u36	Mr President, I hear Mr De Roover talking about fair taxes. However, we are in a context with a lot of transfer taxes. VAT is levied, but since there is more consumption in Flanders, the Flemings contribute more to this than the Walen. Mr De Roover, you do inherit a lot of taxes, but you also introduce new transfer taxes. I have heard a lot of sense and above all nonsense about the impact tax that is coming, but I have not yet heard you talk about the fact that the tax on securities is also a transfer tax. 75 % to 80 % of what you intend to collect with that tax will be paid by Flemings. Do you think it is fair that new transfer taxes are being introduced, or are there not enough such taxes in this country? I expected you to take the opposite measures. I expected you to at least ensure that the transfer taxes would be reduced instead of creating new ones.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip188x.u37	Mrs Pas, if you take one element from the overall package, you will always find an imbalance. You forget all the other measures and tax reductions that have their consequences. If you can explain and quantify the difference between the two measures by means of a scientific study, then perhaps we can debate this rather than illuminating one patch of one measure. Colleagues, with the tax shift and with the proposals mentioned in the State of the Union, we are aiming at a model of society. We want to give people play, work and living space and count on creativity and energy. Some feel that with the model whereby everyone can be appointed to a town hall of a municipality governed by the socialists at 18 years of age, the economy is saved. The previous speaker is somewhat inclined to do so. We have a different view on this. Apparently any form of creative implementation of the labour market is seen as a degradation of social protection and as a release of people and is called precarious. Our faith in the people is slightly greater in that respect.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip188x.u38	Mr De Roover, you are talking about social vision. Yesterday, the Prime Minister tried to convince us that the jobs created by creativity would be quality jobs. The Prime Minister said here that the 60,000 jobs are full-time. I want to know what N-VA thinks of that? The social security figures are totally opposed to that. Yesterday, the Prime Minister put forward totally incorrect figures. It is not true that the 60,000 jobs are full-time. The ONSS figures are very clear. For this period, there are 39,000 full-time, 12,000 interim and 10,000 part-time. Yesterday, the Prime Minister said something wrong. Those jobs aren't mostly full-time jobs. If one looks at the entire period of government N-VA/MR, 75% of these jobs are part-time. I ask today that the figure of 60 000 full-time jobs given by the Prime Minister be either invalidated or confirmed. The debate on what type of jobs we want is an important debate. Today, with three-fourth jobs, half-time and part-time jobs, the government is creating an economy in which no one can buy a cottage or exercise with the children, but total flexibility is required. That's not for us, for the left. We don't want that kind of society. So, Mr De Roover, I would ask you to confirm the figure of 60 000 full-time jobs for the last year given by the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip188x.u39	Mr Hedebouw, I certainly confirm that unemployment is falling and that the rate of effectiveness is increasing. One is not the same as the other. It has just been said that not enough jobs are being created to complement population growth. The opposite is proven. Once again yesterday it was pointed out that by the end of this legislature we will have more working people than ever in post-war history. These are fundamental figures. For a party of labor I would welcome it, because more and more people earn their living in labor. Perhaps they are a potential for your party after all. (Protests from Mr Hedebouw)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip188x.u40	Either we blow up the deal, which I don't want. Mr De Roover continues. That was the deal. You have been able to make your criticism, Mr De Roover has replied, and now it is up to him again.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip188x.u41	Soon I will be working longer than Mr Laaouej, which was not the intention at all.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip188x.u42	No, Mr Hedebouw, we are not opening that door. Mr De Roover, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip188x.u43	I would like to draw from the list, which was put forward yesterday, a few key points which, as far as we are concerned, are absolutely important. The others are, too, but they really jump forward as being fundamental. The first key point, of course, is the necessary reform of corporate taxation. It won't come too soon, it'll even be late. In this way, we will try to close the gap with the other countries. It is of the utmost importance that SMEs in particular should have a better, simpler and cheaper system in this area. We get a security tax, but in the context of a tax shift against the exemption of dividends. It's been a long time since I've studied economics. Each prophet said at that time that it is the biggest nonsense that the government discriminates positively against savings books, while it discriminates negatively against creative investment through shares. The fact that this difference is gradually being eliminated has not been noticed, but as far as I am concerned, that is an essential part of the Summer Agreement. This is where economic logic has spoken. The fact that the unemployed must be assessed on the basis of their competences is an important measure. Over the last few days, I have heard a member of the trade union in the media about the government's measures saying that people with a diploma should now accept all jobs. It is therefore apparently seen as a criticism of the government that people are considered to have to accept a wide range of offered jobs. As far as we are concerned, this is not a criticism, but rather a support for the vision of society behind the policy.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip188x.u44	Mr De Roover, you quickly went over the reform of corporate taxation. In itself, that is a good thing. I have put a lot of questions to the Minister of Finance over the past week in order to clarify this. The Minister did not answer my questions and said that those answers will be forthcoming soon. I read yesterday in Le Soir that the reform of corporate taxation would not be fiscally neutral, as the Prime Minister said here in the Chair, but that it would generate EUR 600 million for the budget. We have not yet seen any texts or tables. We have not been able to take note of the figures. (Protests from Mr Van Biesen) Mr President, may I finish my remarks, unless you give the floor to Mr Van Biesen?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip188x.u45	Mr Vanvelthoven, you have the floor and everyone must listen to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip188x.u46	Mr De Roover, do you have any idea what the figures are? We want to support the reform of corporation tax, but we want to know whether it will be paid or cost-effective. Is the operation budget neutral? Have you seen the numbers? Do you have any knowledge of that? Can you tell me more about that? The Prime Minister will not let us know, the Minister of Finance will not let us know. As leader of the largest majority, you are undoubtedly aware of the figures, so I would like to hear it from you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip188x.u47	Mr De Roover, one of the few things the Prime Minister said yesterday in his speech on corporate tax reform is that the measure would be fiscally neutral. The majority have always sold us this reform by saying that "on the one hand, we lower the tax rate and on the other, we remove tax niches to ensure budgetary neutrality". My question is simple: I would like to know the tax niches that the government removes from corporate tax to ensure this budgetary neutrality.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip188x.u48	Mr Vanvelthoven, if you have any problems with an article in Le Soir you should write a letter to the reader. By asking questions about this, you have chosen the wrong formula. As far as the figures are concerned, if I am not mistaken, there will be a budget debate. If I am not mistaken, there will be figures when all the texts are finished. You're already doing desserts, but we're still at the amuse-gueule. That's gonna give you indigestion. That budget debate will be held and you will have all the figures, but let us do so in due course. (...): (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip188x.u49	This is not a budget debate. Of course there is no answer, because this is not a budget debate. If you stick to your lesson, so will I.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip188x.u50	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip188x.u51	Aren't there any translators at work? I invite you to ask those relevant questions at the time of the budget debate, Mr Van Hees. (...) : (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip188x.u52	No! I say to you that this debate is not taking place now and that no answer is being given to these questions. It's very simple. We're working on the State of the Union.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip188x.u53	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip188x.u54	I'm not saying you can't know. I have just said that the budget debate will take place in due course.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip188x.u55	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip188x.u56	Once again, Mr Vanvelthoven, who said that there is no discussion on this matter? Who said you wouldn't answer your questions? That answer comes at the time when the debate is being held in Parliament, first in committee. I am sure you will ask those questions. I am even more convinced that there will be good answers to that. A debate is about the issues on the table. You're trying to score, but you're now completely intellectually unfair. You know it. This is not a budget debate. Mr Vanvelthoven, you are talking about an article in Le Soir that I do not know and that is based on tables I do not know.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip188x.u57	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip188x.u58	Mr Vanvelthoven, this is not a budget debate. There are no budget tables.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip188x.u59	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip188x.u60	Your indignation shows that you see that you are playing political games. You're playing the wrong part in a wrong play. That sounds like a tragedy.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip188x.u61	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip188x.u62	Mr Vanvelthoven, let Mr De Roover speak.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip188x.u63	Mr Vanvelthoven, the volume of your intervention does not promote quality. Again, you will be served at your beck and call at the time when this legislation will be discussed. That seems to me to be the logic of parliamentary democracy. The activation of long-term sick is, of course, a very important fact. Once again, there is the impression that a witch hunt is being organized. I believe that everyone, including from their own environment, knows that it does not really help people to say that they are sick and that they have to wait for the rest of their lives to get better. No, even when people are no longer able to participate in a particular profession, we want to offer the opportunity to look creatively for other ways of developing themselves economically and socially. The automatic allocation of rights must certainly not be lost in this debate, because that is a very important measure. Many people who are entitled to benefits are usually not entirely at home in administration and the like. They will certainly be greatly helped by this. As far as my group is concerned, the modernisation of public office with the choice of contractual arrangements and the upgrading of the status of public contracts is, of course, also a step which has apparently been a long way from being achieved. A big taboo had to be broken. This is absolutely a compliment that we would like to put on the hat of this reform government. The Prime Minister quite rightly pointed out yesterday the importance of the right to work and the guaranteed minimum service. Mr President, I wanted to classify and chronometrate everything nicely, but I fear I have chronometrated the time of the opposition. We see that this policy is achieving results and we believe that we should also make a number of observations. It is, for example, about the fact that we are effectively lagging behind the neighbouring countries. The opposition likes to protect it frequently by saying that other countries are doing better. If I may use a comparison from cycling I would say that the competition took a flying start, while at the beginning of the legislature we still had to pump up our tires. That is the reality we have been faced with. The necessary reforms still needed to be put in place. It was interesting to hear the previous speaker in terms of job creation ask the question what the cost is. When I heard that, I started thinking very carefully. Mr Laaouej, there is another way of thinking between you and us. After all, a tax reduction is regarded by you as a cost. It saves very little, before a tax relief is translated by you even as a kind of theft. That is a reasoning that assumes that high taxes are normal and that it has to be considered whether reducing taxes is not unjust. Our position, on the other hand, is the opposite. Of course, taxes must be levied, but taxes must be judged on their quality. Tax reductions, if they are stimulating, are of course not theft. On the contrary, that is giving to the citizens what they have worked for themselves.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip188x.u64	Mr President, I am sorry to break the agreement we have reached not to interrupt too much. Obviously, there are precedents. Mr De Roover, reducing taxes on income from work, we must not just think about it, it must be done! We must lower taxes on labour income, but we must do so seriously, thinking about the public accounts, thinking about the need not to return the bill to others and, above all, not giving one hand while taking over the other as the government has done with the increase in taxes on consumption. Prime Minister, you cannot deny that you have increased the VAT on electricity, you cannot deny that you have increased the excise duty on diesel, you cannot deny that you have imposed a tax on sodas. These are taxes on consumption! I quote you a number and if you dispute it, bring some elements! I am prepared to acknowledge that these figures need to be reviewed. I say that over the period, the trajectory is 3 billion euros that you are going to look for in the pocket of consumers, households. For the rest, income tax and labour tax must be reduced by taking into account the evolution of our economic structure: the financialization of the economy, productivity gains, the digital economy, which generates massive gains and profits, and which, through a variety of techniques, does not contribute adequately. It is simply necessary to shift the taxation of labour on income derived from capital, derived from speculation. In addition, your government is lagging behind in the fight against tax evasion. You said you were looking for 225 million euros. Can you imagine what €225 million represents on the whole phenomenon of tax evasion? Not much! Yes, we must be able to reduce the tax on labour income. Depending on budgetary constraints, low and medium incomes must be targeted – the most economically efficient – and at the same time pay attention to public accounts. Because right behind the public accounts, there is social security and we do not accept that social security is the drawer of your budgetary mistakes!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip188x.u65	Mr President, I am being questioned and I have to react to give further information to Mr Laaouej. Mr Laaouej, I cannot share the analysis you distill. It does not correspond to the reality and strength of a number of indisputable reports – not those of a party study office! – e.g. those of the National Bank or the Plan Office. If I resume in recent years in terms of household disposable income, in terms of purchasing power, what is the situation? In 2011, -1, so a step backwards. In August 2012, -0.1. In 2013, 0, a status quo. And 2014, +0.3. And 2015, +0.7. And 2016, +0,9. In 2017, +1.3. In 2018, +2.2. That's the reality of the numbers! That's the strength of the results! Your choice is to fill the cash drawer by punctuating in the pocket of the people who work. It's not our choice! [[Applause on the benches of the majority]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip188x.u66	Prime Minister, you are confusing disposable income with purchasing power. It's not exactly the same thing. Secondly, these are debates that we often have when we examine the budget with the Minister of Finance. If he wants to participate in the debate, he is welcome. When you have an increase in disposable income, you must always see that there is a mechanical connection to the growth rate. It is true that, in the early years of this legislature, the rate of growth was quite low, the result of the financial crisis triggered by the bankruptcy of Lehman Brothers – caused by deregulated finance under the influence of a liberal view of how to regulate finance. It was necessary to repair the economic and social damage. That was true for us and for the whole of Europe. Except that we, even in this period, under the Di Rupo government, had higher growth rates than in the euro area, unlike you. You are, each time, below the euro area's growth rates. To return to the evolution of disposable income, you have a percentage that tells you nothing about the distribution of disposable income between income classes. He doesn't tell you who benefits from it, because, in disposable income, you have income from labour, income from capital. The linear increase in disposable income does not tell you how all this is distributed among people. This is where you, it seems to me, sin because of a lack of insight into the analysis of the figures given to you by the National Bank. What I see is that you've been punctured on the $12.5 billion in salaries over the period you were in the government, just with the index jump. You add the taxes on consumption, you add all the cuts in social security that make life more expensive whenever you want to be treated. And this is where you have a massive loss of purchasing power, Prime Minister!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip188x.u67	Mr Laaouej, the figures that the Prime Minister has given are "in real terms", that is to say, inflation. The effects of tax increases on inflation are therefore included in these figures. With regard to distribution, the tax shift is oriented for the most part towards the lowest wages. There is, without a doubt, a better redistribution of income. The tax shift figures are here. It is the lowest wages that benefit most.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip188x.u68	Colleague, I have the report from the National Bank in front of me. It states that, thanks to purchasing power measures, the income of workers and benefit recipients increases this legislative period by EUR 5.4 billion. It says that, as the Prime Minister said, the available income has increased more than during the previous legislature. You say that we should look at the distribution between the different income groups. That is true, but that also applies, of course, to the previous legislature. Furthermore, we are increasing the wealth envelope more than in the previous legislature. The living wage for a head of household was EUR 1090 per month three years ago and increased by EUR 100. This is an increase of 1200 euros a year or 9% at three years time. Is that what the whole battle was fought with? No. Has there been a significant effort in this respect? Yes. You mentioned economic growth and the fact that we are lagging behind other countries. First of all, we're catching up. Secondly, Mr President, I would like you to look at the differences in Belgium. I am not going to make the comparison with Germany here, because there is much to be said about that. There are even points from your reply that are correct. However, I see that economic growth in Flanders is 1.8 % and in Wallonia 1.4 %. The employment rate is 73 % in Flanders and 63 % in Wallonia. Then I wonder what has prevented you from doing something about this in the past, all those years that you have formed and led a government in Wallonia? Real disposable income is 2.1 in Flanders and 1.7 in Wallonia. What has prevented you from increasing employment rates, real disposable income and economic growth in Wallonia over the last few decades?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip188x.u69	Mr President, I would like to go back to Minister Van Overtveld's statement that this government has a priority or particular intention with respect to the lowest incomes. In view of the figures transmitted by Belgium to Europe, which are available in the Eurostat database, as regards the situation of the most disadvantaged people – the 2.3 million people below or close to the poverty line – and in view of their evolution over the last three years, Mr Van Overtveldt, as far as you are interested, we can see that the increase in the number of disadvantaged people is more important today than in the past. This figure does not decrease. If you have selected a few categories from the employees, then I agree. But the 2.3 million people close to the poverty line do not benefit from your measures. You see it on the poverty figures. My colleague Calvo pointed out that in 2014, the difference between social integration income and the poverty line was 266 euros, while in 2017 it was 297 euros. The gap is changing. There's a social regression! This is what the figures in the Eurostat data bank say.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip188x.u70	It goes in all directions here, but I would like to answer what Mr Nollet says. Firstly, as my colleague from CD&V has just explained, this government has taken steps with regard to benefits. However, telling people that poverty will be solved by raising benefits is pure nonsense. There is no country in the world that has fought poverty by raising benefits to any level. In fact, people are at the poverty line today because the OCMWs match. You're telling a story that's actually not right. If benefits are to be withdrawn, the lowest incomes must also be raised. That's something this government has done. But it's a much wider package. We don't just bet on jobs, Mr. Nollet. Let me give you some figures. You were just talking about important figures. You know what I think is an important figure? One in five children in Wallonia grows up in a family where no one has ever worked. In Flanders, that's one in fifteen. We also have work to do, that's right, but first do something about it!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip188x.u71	Mr President, I will not have time to respond to Mr Beke. Sir, you're quoting absolute figures (5 billion). They're colossal masses. The wage bill is almost half of GDP. Pay attention to your absolute numbers. Instead, look at Eurostat figures, which show the proportional evolution of the wage bill: on average 0.7% in Europe compared with only 0.1% in Belgium. There's no mystery, Mr. Beke. The puncture by the index jump is colossal. For the rest, I'll come back one day to your argument about Wallonia. It is ultimately an admission of weakness on the part of the federal government, which has all the levers to boost the employment rate. Regions can do this too. For example, the Brussels Region does so with the "youth guarantee". But it is at the federal level that there are the biggest cocoricos on improving the employment rate with the fiscal lever and the social lever. Finally, it is there that the attack hurts, because your policies visibly do not have the desired effects. Mr Van Overtveldt, I would like to draw your attention to something very important. You're saying, and it's fair, that with tax shift reductions, you're targeting lows and middle wages. This is reflected in the laws we have passed. In doing so, you create a movement that reinforces some tax escalation. This means a redistributive effect. That's indisputable. But on the other hand, as you increase consumption taxes, which are regressive, you cancel your redistributive effect. That's the problem. For the rest – because we must be on the right side – it is still too early to take stock, because your tax reform will have its full effect at the end of the legislature. You've already introduced taxes on consumption. To be just in the reasoning, we have to wait for the end of the sequence. But you will need to measure the redistributive effect of your indirect tax increases and your direct tax reductions to see the effect on overall progressivity and redistribution. Then we will have the truth of the numbers. I'm saying something very simple. We'll see about taxation, but there are already payloads. I am convinced, Mr. Minister of Finance, that with this puncture, you are reducing the purchasing power of workers.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip188x.u72	Mr President, for a moment I thought Mr Laaouej was in favour of a new state reform. That is not today's theme, but we note that. Ladies and gentlemen, we are used to Mrs van Peel's passionate speech. Maybe she already ate some sweets this morning, because it's her birthday today. So beware of her further interventions, for they will not be devoid of energy. I find some statements on benefits and European minima that I have heard here bizarre. We think it is extremely important to focus on bringing people to work who, let us be honest, do not have enough or some weaker assets to get to work. However, if we take measures to get these people out of their need, then the thread of the precarious jobs will be brought out. However, if we have to wait until everyone who is entitled to benefit today can accept a very well-paid job as ICT expert, I fear that we will remain in that need cycle for a very long time to come. We are just about to break through that spiral. The fact that these jobs are not the absolute top jobs will certainly be true, but the alternative to many of them is that they have to count on benefits. Well, we are very pleased that we can get them out of the spiral of benefits. The figures in this respect are absolutely convincing.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip188x.u73	Mr De Roover, with all due respect, I think you should also look with an open mind. It is difficult for you to claim that you invented activation policy. We have been working for years to give people opportunities to enter the labour market and even create jobs for them. The big problem these days, when I look at your local mandatators, is that there's a lot less focus on activation compared to the past.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip188x.u74	Mrs De Coninck, I will not deny that there have been attempts at activation, because then it would be a black and white story, or in this case a red and white story. However, I would like to point out that employment in the private sector has fallen under the previous government. We may disagree, but I have no problem with that. It's nice for the audience to see the difference. With our current government policy we aim for the private sector, for private employment. That's another option. Your option was decent, but our option is better. That is the political debate to be held here.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip188x.u75	Mr De Roover, you remind me of wishful thinking. You are counting on the private sector, but you need to see what results are being achieved in the private sector with regard to re-employment of low-skilled, long-term unemployed or people who have been ill for a long time. You'd open your eyes quite a bit. You give gifts to employers, but your best friends will not help you with your activation policy.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip188x.u76	Mrs. De Coninck, it's a work in progress, I won't deny that. But, again, we don't believe in offering jobs from the government to solve that problem. However, that is a disagreement which I would like to see emphasised rather than contradicted. I'm rounding up. Yesterday we saw the forces in our country that are trying to stop the trains: the Tita Wizard's approach and everything stands still, hoping that the world too will stand still, in the hope that the changes can be kept out, in the hope that we can put some kind of cheese paste over our existing model. This has something attractive, the idea that we can stop the change and that it will remain as it is, that we do not move above all, with our eyes closed, because that is safe, at least that impression is given at the time. That's how little kids go to the bathroom when the light's broken. We do not want to close our eyes to the reality of the surrounding world. That is a reality that, on the one hand, may seem threatening, but, on the other hand, must also motivate to be creative about it. We want to put the train on the move and sometimes our group thinks that there are a lot of intermediate stations during the journey of that train. So be it. We certainly agree, Prime Minister, with the policy you put forward yesterday. The fact that the government does not stop, but remains realistic about the objectives at the same time, is an approach that we very much want to support. Bake the cake and then distribute it, still remains the only correct order. It is appropriate, Mr President, that I should express a word of sympathy with the opposition. It is sometimes claimed, even on the front page, that it has been the weakest opposition for 25 years. Maybe that's the truth and it's just the best government of the past 25 years!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip188x.u77	In the meantime, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that Mr De Roover, for the sake of clarity, has not only been on the speaker's seat for one hour and one minute. I also remind you of the deal. You can see the difference between the appointment and the practice and you know what happens in fine.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip188x.u78	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, beyond our belongings, beyond our differences, we are all driven by the search for common interest. There are different conceptions of the common interest. We all defend a vision of man and society that is our own and we try to give it life when we have the chance to exercise responsibilities. Over the past three years in the majority, we have endeavoured to implement the ideas and values that inspire us. We have translated them into laws. More than four hundred texts have already been adopted. These ideas and values are liberal ideas and values for us in the Reform Movement. Today, in Mr Laaouej's mouth, I hear a florileg of sometimes excessive slogans. And in a much less pleasant and pleasant way, I also heard, two days ago, another socialist agent, not least, talking about the government's action, about a social genocide. A social genocide! It's an outrage! These slogans, these outrages are symptomatic of a fundamental error. In politics, no party has a monopoly on social! No party has superior legitimacy to grant patents in this area! [[Applause]] Yesterday, the Prime Minister, set out in this forum the list of social measures: the increase in citizens' incomes, the increase in health care spending, the increase in pensions, the increase in social integration income. The left has the habit of describing as social all that relates to the redistribution of wealth. As far as we are concerned, we give the social word a broader meaning. We also think it is necessary to share the cake, but we think above all that it is necessary to increase the size of the cake! We believe that the financial sustainability of the tools for social policy must be preserved. While it is important to protect the poorest, it is also necessary to protect the social security that protects the poorest. A social policy is a policy that strives not to spend more than it earns, that does not send the bill to future generations, that encourages and rewards work, that uprootes people from the job trap, that eliminates wage disadvantage, that increases the net wages of low and middle income, that spreads the tax burden better, that makes it easier to hire in business. It is a policy that is relentlessly chasing both tax and social fraudsters! In short, to reform is to choose ambition and courage. It is a desire to build a strong economy in which we can maintain generous social security. Of course, it is necessary to continue our efforts. But we can already see in concrete terms the consequences of this proactive policy. The results speak for themselves. Our country is doing much better today than it was three years ago. It is the official independent bodies that indicate this: the Higher Employment Council, the Federal Office of the Plan, the OECD and the IMF. By putting at the heart of our political action the restoration of competitiveness, we have established the virtuous circle of economic recovery, because it brings growth to our enterprises, which itself carries jobs.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip188x.u79	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Clarinval uses interesting concepts. He has just pronounced the words "pronounced social security". I wish he could have defined this concept better. My questions will be simple. Since the beginning of the legislature, how many young people have been excluded from the benefit of integration allowances? Since the beginning of the legislature, how many women in part-time employment have lost their supplementary unemployment benefits? Since the beginning of the legislature, Mr.Clarinval, how many workers have been excluded from unemployment or integration benefits? How long has the teacher's career been extended as a result of the various pension measures taken by your government, and primarily by Mr. Bacquelaine? What do you think is a generous social security system? Is it a question of adapting the means to constantly changing needs or of adapting the expenditure – which constitutes the income of the beneficiaries of social security – to the means you would like to devote to them? I think that is the opposite of this last proposal. A generous social security system, according to environmentalists, is a system that gives itself the means of its ambition. It ensures that everyone can live in a dignified way. The number of those, especially children, who do not live in a dignified way in our country today is increasing. So, please, correct your vision of what a generous social security system should be!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip188x.u80	Mr Clarinval, he struck me that among all the neutral institutions you mentioned, we are no longer talking about ONSS. I wonder why. Yesterday, obviously, the Prime Minister wanted to respond to a certain left: "130,000 jobs. Some claim that these are precarious jobs." And, in bold, in speech, to be sure that we understood correctly: "This is not true! Partial employment has not increased. According to the ONSS" – which was quoted yesterday; I don't know why it is no longer so today – "it was very much full-time and private sector jobs that led to this result." Then it is always written in bold: "Between the end of 2015 and the end of 2016, the number of full-time jobs increased by 60,941 units." I've got the ONSS paintings in front of me. Prime Minister, Mr.Clarinval, – I don't know who will answer – I do see that the number of jobs has increased by 60,941 units. So I think I took the right picture. On the other hand, total employment has increased in the private sector. I would dare to think that the firm would have made a mistake, but, one line below, we have the real figures for full-time job creation: 39,000 full-time jobs, 12,000 acting jobs and 10,000 part-time jobs. We are therefore not at all in the more than 60,000 full-time announcements. Mr. Clarinval, do you confirm the figure of 60,941 full-time jobs or are the figures different? This is not a small debate. Fatally, the question is what types of jobs are created. As an increasingly flexible and partial job is being created today, it is clear that the perception invoked by the Prime Minister is completely false. Mr. Clarinval, was the Prime Minister wrong yesterday? Yes or no? I listen to your answer with great attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip188x.u81	Mr Gilkinet, generous social security is a social security that is generous with the weakest, which protects the weakest of us. But it is also a social security that avoids abuse. Already, the previous government had put in place a whole series of measures to combat abuses. They're being put in place. It is normal, when you have insurance, to combat abuses because it is also these abuses, in the face of this generosity, that rot and endanger social security. Mr Hedebouw, this debate on the figures took place just now and you heard the Prime Minister's answer. Of course, we confirm the figures given yesterday. I can even give you more. As of June 30, 2017, 146,000 jobs have been created. These are official figures. Your figures have probably been poorly analysed by the PTB's office of study. For me, the notes are official and proven.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip188x.u82	We note, for the PTB, that Mr.Clarinval confirms the figure of 60,941 full-time equivalents, not part-time. Is that what this is about? I see the Minister of Employment is a little uncomfortable... Mr. Hedebouw is not wrong...
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip188x.u83	Mr President, a great deal has already been said here about figures. Of course, all this can be justified, especially if different tables are used. For the sake of clarity, I have once again asked the ONSS what the exact figures are in the debate full-time versus part-time versus part-time. The figures date from the fourth trimester of 2016. We have also been asked to point out that in time. The number of full-time employees has fallen by 42 000 in the previous legislative period and the number of part-time employees has increased by 40 000. Under this government, the figures are up to 2016, it is 24 000 full-time and 30 000 part-time. This means that the number of full-time workers has increased. In the course of the debate on Work, I would like to talk very comprehensively about the figures so that there can no longer be any ambiguity about them.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip188x.u84	Mr. Minister's answer was very clear. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am not going to mention here all the significant progress made by the majority. It would be too long and some colleagues would not resist the temptation to get out so much they would be irritated. I still want to point out a few of them. First, thanks to the tax shift, the purchasing power of workers has increased unprecedentedly since 2009. The figures were given yesterday by the Prime Minister but it is good to repeat them: 80 euros net not month for a person earning the median salary. In addition, there are the effects of agreements resulting from social consultation and indexation. In concrete terms, for workers who earn more or less 1,500 euros gross, this corresponds to 120 euros net no more months. For an employee at 3000 euros gross per month, this corresponds to 147 euros net per month in addition. These are not anecdotal amounts! In addition, all employees will see their net income increase in 2018 and 2019. In 2019, they will have between 70 and 140 net euros per month in addition compared to 2014. It can be estimated that this corresponds more or less to a thirteenth month. Let us not be afraid to say that it is the lowest income that will be the main beneficiaries. If the workers are rewarded by seeing their treatment valued, the government's effort has also focused on the most fragile populations. Don't dislike the opposition, which is trying to make it seem that all the measures taken are antisocial! As a result, welfare recipients saw an increase in their income of around 9 per cent. This is an increase of almost 900 euros per year for one isolated and 1,200 euros per year for one head of household. Unemployment benefits were also significantly increased. It was important to remind him. In the same vein, the government spent almost 900 million euros on improving the well-being of pensioners. Most of this amount has been allocated to the upgrading of the lowest pensions and minimum pensions. Thus, the minimum pension for an individual employee who had a full career will have increased by 97 euros between October 2014 and January 2018. During the same period, the minimum monthly pension for an individual self-employed person who has had a full career will have increased by EUR 160. Between 2015 and 2016, the government will have spent more than half a billion euros on raising the lowest pensions, more than double what the previous government had achieved. Whether for workers, social beneficiaries or pensioners, this government is synonymous with an increase in net income. That is what the independent figures say.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip188x.u85	Mr.Clarinval, I agreed from the Prime Minister's statement yesterday that the government did not want us to refer to slogans and to be easy in our expressions. I now note that during your speech you are already referring to a few slogans: "No party has a monopoly on social rights", "We must protect the poorest", etc. You list all the achievements that you think have been made in favour of the poorest. For my part, you should also, if you want to remain honest, remember your promises and those you have not kept. Some colleagues have spoken to say that you have not achieved the valorisation of social benefits at the level of the poverty line. You announced that you would give up that goal, but I insist on the allowances for people with disabilities. I expected you to talk about it and I haven't heard anything about it yet. For more than a year, these people have not had access to the Disability Service because the telephone centre is not working, due to inadequate software change. These people have seen their unallocated allowances, their files unprocessed, and that for more than a year! The allowances of these persons with disabilities are not valued beyond the poverty line and the removal of what is called the "price of love", the promise of all your parliamentarians and ministers to stop reducing the allowance of persons with disabilities based on the income of the person with whom the person lives is not held. Not a word to these subjects! I wish, Mr. Clarinval, that in your expression here, you would also say what you have not done and how you intend to make things right.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip188x.u86	You're asking me to talk about what we haven't done when I haven't finished my presentation yet. You are very in a hurry to receive this information! We have discussed, on a number of occasions in the Committee on Social Affairs, the policies you have just mentioned. We may be able to resume this debate next week in the Social Affairs Committee, but obviously the subject is well known and the Secretary of State has already replied very clearly about what she is going to do to put the software and the telephone station back into operation.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip188x.u87	Mr. Clarinval, I am speaking to you because you are a member of the Prime Minister's party. Prime Minister, the term "disabled persons" was not used in your speech. In the face of their reality and our long struggle to ensure that their allocation can no longer be lower than the income of social integration, your Secretary of State replied that they had only to address the CPAS and thus face multiple administrative steps. In the face of their reality and their daily lives, when they were directed to the federal services, you could be expected to intervene in order to give your government a little voluntarism on this issue. You didn't do it yesterday. I hope that in your reply, you will talk about it because it is the minimum in terms of the respect and the commitments that must be made to people with disabilities.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip188x.u88	Thank you, Mrs. Fonck. I will continue my remarks, which are often interrupted to address points that I have not yet developed. So I think you're looking forward to hearing the rest. We talked about employment. If unemployment falls, it is because employment-promoting sectors are supported and encouraged, in particular by massive reductions in social contributions. Reductions in specific contributions will still be foreseen in 2018 in order to combat social dumping, particularly in the construction sector. I would like to talk about the flexi-job system that has proved its worth in the Horeca to fight black work and increase the net income of people who are already working at 4/5th time. We want to make it look like flexi-jobs are about people who only work a few hours, job seekers. This system is intended for people who already have a minimum 4/5th job and who want to complete their schedule by working a few hours in the Horeca or in other sectors. This has nothing to do with the catastrophic presentation made by the opposition. The flexi-job system will be extended to retail stores. The e-commerce law will be adapted to night and Sunday work, as it is necessary to be able to capture the very strong growth of this sector. There is a 15% increase in this area. This represents EUR 7.43 billion. It seems to me that e-commerce needs to be integrated quickly in our country, so that we can benefit from some of the benefits. Finally, a range of measures to promote well-being at work will soon be introduced. In particular, we have already talked about coaches dedicated to psychosocial risks and the right to disconnect. As our Prime Minister reminded us, and it is not a leitmotiv, the focus of the government's work is "Jobs! Jobs! Jobs!" The numbers show that it works. We can be happy about that. As far as taxation is concerned, this summer's agreement is synonymous with a revolution for our SMEs - and I am weighing my words. They will gradually leave the top of the ranking of the world's most taxed companies, to see the ISOC rate move to 20% in the long run. They will also benefit from a temporary increase in the deductibility of investments, from 8 to 20 % for SMEs as of next year. This breath of oxygen will allow them to invest in our economy and create new jobs. For large companies, the reduction of ISOC from 33 to 25%, combined with tax consolidation for 2020, is a step forward to support the competitiveness of our companies internationally. Lowering the threshold of the social contributions required of starters will also facilitate the start-up of enterprises, by sticking better to the economic reality, which is often difficult when an activity is launched. This measure is clearly consistent with the zero contribution measure for the first job, which has also shown its relevance. Since the beginning of the legislature, our majority has taken concrete measures in favour of young companies, including the extension of the tax shelter or a tax reduction granted to investors who decide to enter the capital of startups. This is a significant and ambitious tax revolution for our country's businesses. While all over Europe, ISOC is promised to decrease, in Belgium, we do. Various reforms have also been carried out to improve the social status of the self-employed. These include an increase in maternity leave and allowances in the event of bankruptcy or termination for economic reasons. Our majority don't stop in such a good way. Other measures will come into effect next January, such as the reduction of the waiting period from one month to two weeks. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, we see this clearly: it is all in the right direction. The Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) did not make a mistake because it welcomed the efforts made by Belgium. In particular, it pointed to pension and tax reforms in order to reduce labour levies. For Belgium has returned to competitiveness, a somewhat taboo word which we no longer dared to pronounce, but which is the cornerstone, on which the whole of our economic and social system rests. Without competitiveness, no wealth creation! And without wealth, no social system! But all these efforts, these good figures would be in vain, if there were not the will to direct our future towards ambitious, meaningful projects for future generations. To this end, I welcome the Prime Minister's initiative, whose strategic investment pact will enable Belgium to move forward on such important issues as mobility, energy and the digital agenda. In the long run, we would like to mobilise EUR 60 billion for this purpose, because we are convinced that the multiplier effect of these investments will benefit all economic actors in the country. However, the government did not wait for this pact to mobilize essential investments in mobility, which is – as was noted yesterday – a major issue. We can thus recall that the transport plan will already allow a significant increase in the supply of trains by just over 5% from December 2017 in rural areas, in urban and suburban areas. As for the offer around Brussels, it has been strengthened by 32 additional trains on weekdays and 40 on weekends since December 2016. It would be pleased if the policies that have been managing the mobility portfolio in Brussels for more than 15 years were rapidly inspired by such projects. Another major project is the work on the energy pact. Negotiations are under way between the regions and the federal government, with the aim of achieving a successful outcome in the near future. The result will provide us with the guidelines for 2030 and 2050. Finally, this energy pact will give the various energy players a vision and legal certainty to carry out the long-term work and investments. Another government priority is public health. Our country has one of the most successful social security systems in the world. It is a pride and an achievement, and we will always defend its proper functioning. But it would be irresponsible not to constantly take into account changes in our society and expectations in health care. As the Prime Minister pointed out yesterday, the stakes are enormous: ageing of the population, increasing chronic diseases and patients with multiple conditions, financial difficulties for more than one hospital in three, access to treatment,... On Monday, the health care budget was approved very widely by the General Council of INAMI, with 18 votes in favour and 2 against. Guess who the two who voted against! Yes, the FGTB! Beyond this protest of bad mood which the FGTB has the secret, I welcome this broad approval, following a long work by the health insurance stakeholders who submitted a proposal to the Insurance Committee, which then received a positive vote. The actors gave a strong signal: consultation is still possible; better, it works. The socialist union is clearly of the opinion that there is no need for consultation, as the strike that paralysed part of the country yesterday has shown. A fraction of the FGTB believes that it can, as it pleases, prevent workers, students, job seekers from travelling. This is unacceptable and, above all, counterproductive, because these actions deprive of its substance the right to strike, which is an essential achievement in democracy. But, used wrongly and through, it ends up losing efficiency. Moreover, we feel the union leaders uncomfortable as a result of yesterday's union action. In the press, we find it very difficult to find a clear line of claim, because there is not really one. There was a pure political strike by the socialist union, obviously running out of arguments. Let us be clear: if the strike were limited to not working and demonstrating in the vicinity of roads or zoning entrances without hindering freedom of movement, no objection would of course be raised. But that's not what's going on. Regularly, public space is illegally confiscated by an organized minority that exercises as much power as it is legitimate over the rest of the community. It imposes its agenda, changes the schedules, forced to give up projects and makes certain activities fail. But, again, let us not generalize! As Minister Bacquelaine said yesterday in Le Soir, the trade union world fortunately also includes people genuinely driven by the desire to defend workers' rights while turning the economic machine. In a functioning system of consultation, it is then possible to reach real agreements. In any event, the government has not added any savings to those proposed by the health stakeholders themselves. This is the first time in many years – it should be stressed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip188x.u89	Mr Clarinval, I want to hear a lot of things, but it must not be denied that you have, since the beginning of the legislature, imposed extremely harsh and brutal measures on patients as well as on health professionals. You have done everything but respect your own government statement that you are committed to a 1.5% health care growth standard. For this year, I'm waiting to see the acts. But, in previous years, this commitment has never been fulfilled. This Government has completely succeeded in breaking trust with health-care providers in all categories of health-care professionals. The goal of sustainability of health care – such as pensions – is as commendable as it is fundamental. But on the one hand, you are imposing enormous efforts, while on the other, you are reluctant to achieve more justice and fairness. Let us take the example of taxation and the fight against major tax fraud and even serious financial crime. You have made tax statements in connection with financial transactions. Last summer, security accounts were a key part of your agreement. Each time, your Minister of Finance announces that this will not be possible, because of discrimination, etc. It is unacceptable to impose such heavy efforts on citizens when we are also lax in the fight against tax fraud. Mr De Wever told the VRT that tax evasion is not a shame but a citizen's duty. This sums up the government's state of mind.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip188x.u90	Mrs Fonck, I cannot let go of the fact that you accused the government of laxity about fraud. The revenue figures from the fight against fraud have never been as good as this year. Don't come to say the opposite! You're in the slogan, Mrs. Fonck! In the field of health, the positive climate of social consultation that took place on Monday in this sector bodes well for the conclusion of the agreements at the end of the year. It's reassuring for patient price security. We must rejoice and not see malice, Mrs. Fonck. The government's line is clear. He wants to do everything possible to ensure the sustainability of our solidarity, particularly in the area of our health care. That is why we are reforming in depth, and we are putting the emphasis on employment, because only employment will be able to finance sustainable access to quality health care for all. In our social security system, the best example of solidarity lies precisely in our pension model. This is a solidarity between the generations, to ensure the sustainability of our pension system. The Government has therefore chosen to consider its reforms along two lines: to strengthen the link between the career provided and the amount of the pension and to gradually harmonise the various schemes which coexist. It is by following these two lines that we can support our pension system in the long term. The list of reforms announced in this regard is long. We announce a point pension, a partial pension, a mixed pension, the inclusion of penitibility in pension rights and the abolition of special schemes as well as of old-age pensions. These are just examples of the reforms that will complement the new measures to upgrade minimum pensions. It is claimed that we are saucissoning pension reform. Here, on the contrary, on this axis in particular, great coherence appears in the action of the government. These are the main ingredients for the pension system to be fair, equitable and sustainable. A word about security, which, like other sectors, undergoes in-depth reform to adapt to current challenges. On 22 March, more than 300 women, men and families were affected. The government has ensured that victims and their loved ones can obtain emergency financial assistance. On request, without having to submit invoices, the victims were heard. We know, however, that more needs to be done, that more needs to be done. There is a need to ensure comprehensive and effective care for victims and their loved ones, rapid response and long-term, individual and constant support. In the fight against terrorism and radicalism, the government has announced a total of 30 strong measures. At MR, we are pleased that the majority of these measures have already been adopted. These include the possibility of conducting round-the-clock searches. The extension of police custody will soon be considered. It is, however, utopian to believe that we can avoid everything and control everything. It was necessary to strengthen the resources of our services, both in budgetary terms and in terms of the extent of their means of action. Many attacks have been prevented by the work of the security and intelligence services, but there is no zero risk. The safety of citizens is one of the priorities of the MR and we will always keep in mind the necessary balance between security and freedom. We will continue to defend our common foundation of values. In the area of police, too, efforts are important. Twenty different measures have been proposed by the government to refocus on key tasks. With this in mind, we will in particular create a new direction for security within the federal police. With regard to the Asylum and Migration component, the majority drew a clear and balanced line in respect of human rights but where abuses were not tolerated. We will not change course! Belgium has largely proved that it is pursuing a human policy. During the 2015 asylum crisis, each applicant was housed in the Fedasil network. No one slept on the street like in 2009 or 2010. Nearly 18,000 reception places were created within a few months. In our country, 15,500 people were declared refugees in 2016 and today they can start a new life. In 2016, 1,185 humanitarian visas were issued. There were 671 under the previous government. But it was also 1,600 illegal offenders who were dismissed in 2016. We also conduct this balanced policy internationally through humanitarian aid and, at European level, through Union policies and resettlement programmes. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in a few years our country has reformed in depth, produced results, even though this government was doomed to failure. Three years later, economic indicators are in the green: employment has increased, unemployment has decreased, competitiveness has returned, all in a respectful community climate. We were told social apocalypse. But we are pursuing a policy that is as liberal as it is social. We have said that a genuinely social policy must focus on the financial sustainability of the structures that carry out these social tasks. More fundamentally, a social policy is not, in our view, a purely distributive policy. It's much more ambitious than that. The Nobel Prize laureate Amartya Sen considers that social policy is also to develop freedoms. Indeed, our quality of life is measured not by our wealth but by our freedom. The wealth of a society can be converted into freedom, it can finance health care and education, thus increasing the life expectancy and power of men and women in the world. These riches increase the ability to effectively exercise our freedoms. Hence, a genuinely social policy increases our capacities and multiplies our freedoms.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip188x.u91	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to pay tribute in turn to the chairman of the MR Group, who, like his colleague from the PS, is here to make his first speech as leader of the political group. [[Applause]] Prime Minister, yesterday you spoke about the major changes that are taking place in this world and you said that we had two choices: openness or secrecy. You have deliberately chosen openness, cooperation, dialogue. Not for the we-they-thinking, not for polarization, not for confrontation, I quote your words. You have also called for greater dignity in society and in politics. Well, Prime Minister, our group fully endorses these words. After all, these are the foundations of our political vision. They are also the foundations on which our federal state was built, as well as the European institutions. You referred above all to the state of the country, as we expect every State of the Union to have from the government. The state of the country, ladies and gentlemen, is certainly good. That is what the Prime Minister's figures have shown, inter alia, in the socio-economic field. This majority, ladies and gentlemen, is fulfilling its ambition to create a healthy economic environment and to get more people to work, but also to maintain social protection that envys us many countries. Or to say it with our 2014 election programme: economic growth with social progress. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to comment on the number debate that has already taken place here this morning, including by Mr Laaouej. The Prime Minister has mentioned that jobs have been added. The Prime Minister has mentioned that unemployment is falling. The Prime Minister said yesterday that the net disposable income of Belgian citizens has increased, although it is sometimes devoted to the good economic situation. Mr Laaouej, I know you as a grade expert. I refer to the National Bank of Belgium, which has made it very clear that if the current government had not taken the measures it has taken, such as the reduction of labour costs, such as wage moderation in consultation with the social partners, such as labour market reforms, there would never have been so many jobs in the private sector and there would never have been so many new self-employed workers than at present. That is the reality. [[Applause on the benches of the majority]] Prime Minister, the measures you have taken in the Summer Agreement will reinforce that effect. Let me look at some of the measures, such as corporation tax. I also hear the opposition this morning in statements and replies saying that they are in favour of a company tax reform. Colleagues, I would like to refer to what I said on behalf of our group in the gallery in 2016. We have argued in favour of an efficient corporate tax reform and have linked it to criteria. These criteria are: the measures must be good for employment; they must be good for SMEs and the small self-employed; they must be fair and budgetaryly neutral. Mr Vanvelthoven, may I finish my argument? After that, the President will be very happy to give you the floor because I certainly do not want to take away your question. When we look at the current government's agreement, I note that these criteria have been met. The fees fall, but especially for SMEs. The taxes fall, but mostly for the sole proprietorship. The advantages are greater for small companies than for large companies. Budgetary neutrality has been agreed. What is particularly important to me and to our group, and to which we have referred, is that, in addition to companies, tens of thousands of sole proprietorships and small self-employed persons, the tax disadvantages they had in relation to legitimate companies are eliminated. Ladies and gentlemen, that is important. That's justice! [[Applause on the benches of the majority]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip188x.u92	Mr President, Mr Verherstraeten, you are talking about budgetary neutrality. I've already tried a few moments ago. We have also been given the 'budgetary neutral debt' in the tax shift of personal income tax. To date, a prominent member of your group has disputed that it would be budget neutral, and many others with him. The Minister of Finance is always trying to explain that it has not been able to make a hole in the budget. It is therefore important to discuss this again in the context of corporate taxation. You say that you made that a condition last year and the Prime Minister repeated it today. I assume that tomorrow, if you will give confidence to the government, you will be aware that this corporate tax reform will be fiscally neutral. I still don't know. The Minister of Finance announced this summer that he would present this table after the summer. Meanwhile, we are in autumn, and we still haven't had it. Are you better informed than the rest of us if you say that the condition of CD&V is met?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip188x.u93	Mr Vanvelthoven, I did not make it a condition. It was a criterion. It was an important criterion in the light of the budgetary situation in which our country finds itself. I will not contradict you that the tax shift we introduced at the beginning of the legislature, after one year in this legislature, is in fact a tax reduction, primarily in favour of low and middle incomes. We have largely invested in this in terms of tax reduction. I think that is fair and very correct. As far as companies are concerned, we have agreed in the majority to keep this budget neutral. It is a shift, especially a shift from large companies to small companies. It is good that there will be concrete measures in the legislative texts. It is a good thing that the legal texts will include this also in the Summer Agreement, which we will, for example, be working on the notional income deduction. That may be a bit to the detriment of the large companies, but it will be mainly for the benefit of those very many small companies which are at the heart of our Belgian economy.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip188x.u94	So you don't know it yet, that's obvious. You don't know what the hell's going on here. With the reform of personal taxation, it was emphasised that it would be fiscally neutral. Why was that important to everyone at the time? Because we had to make a budget exercise. The agreements made within the government on budgetary neutral debt and on budget deficits have not been reached, and today you are here to defend the opposite. I think that's weird. If that is the prelude to the content of what you consider to be budgetary neutral for this corporation tax, then I am holding my heart. Because if it is not budgetaryly neutral, Mr Verherstraeten, then someone will have to pay for it. That is our concern. I am absolutely in favour of a tax shift with a tax reduction for SMEs. I am absolutely in favour of this at the expense of the large companies and multinationals, but not of the budget gap and then of social security savings. That is what our group wants to warn you about.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip188x.u95	Mr Vanvelthoven, I think that everyone in this hemisphere has a great deal of respect for the National Bank and its analyses. I assume that everyone assumes that they will be done in an objective and correct manner. The analysis presented by the National Bank for a few months clearly shows that if we take into account the whole of the tax shift, which means 50 000 additional jobs more revenue and less expenditure, the tax shift is indeed financed. What are we talking about? The tax shift is indeed a tax reduction, especially for the lowest wages, which has such positive effects, not least on employment, that the overall effect on the budget is almost neutral.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip188x.u96	In any case, Mr Vanvelthoven, the texts on corporate tax reform will be submitted to the Chamber and the Minister of Finance will undoubtedly come up with figures and tables on this matter. That seems obvious to me for a decent political debate. Let's be very clear. There was an agreement, but if there were budgetary problems in this area, it would never be at the expense of social security as far as our group is concerned.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip188x.u97	Mr Verherstraeten, if I have understood correctly, it is the return of the effects: the magic wand, etc. This is, of course, how it happened with the tax shift. No! With the tax shift, there was no return effect you expected. Mr Verherstraeten, if the corporate tax reform is not neutral, at some point, where will you go for the money? It's either from the public services – but you've already taken so much that I don't see where you can still do it – or from social security. I repeat what Mr Vanvelthoven said. If it is not budget neutral, who will pay? That's the real question, Mr. Verherstraeten.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip188x.u98	Mr Laaouej, there is no text yet and you are already assuming the opposite of what the government has committed itself to. I don't think this is right. The Summer Agreement contains concrete measures to finance the reduction of corporate tax. So I think it is clear that this goal is feasible and possible. That is and will remain the starting point.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip188x.u99	Mr President, for the serenity of our debates I would like to intervene. We approved a package of agreements with 50 socio-economic measures in the summer. A very important measure to give more oxygen to our economy and attract more investment is corporate tax. It is our ambition to reform corporate taxation as well. Is this a difficult and complex reform? Yes, we are aware of that. We entered into a political arbitration on this measure this summer. We adopted the programme law after a first reading. In the coming weeks, the Council of Ministers will adopt a law on economic relance, including the reform of corporate taxation. In this context, I have announced in this rostrum a number of very clear principles, which are agreements within the majority. Firstly, the focus is more support for the self-employed and SMEs. As of next year, there will be a significant impact for SMEs. I don't think anyone can dispute the merits of this choice. Secondly, we also want to stimulate investment, give a boost, by enhancing for two years the capacity to develop more investment and therefore, we hope, more jobs. Thirdly, in order to provide a neutral fiscal framework, there is a desire to see what tax niches need to be removed so that there is a shift within corporate tax for the benefit of small and medium-sized enterprises and the self-employed. In the course of parliamentary work, we will have the opportunity to review the economic stimulus note in detail of the measures and their budgetary implications. I simply ask you not to systematically slip towards a form of pessimism, negativism. On the contrary, see the will to move forward, to modernise our economy in order to create more jobs and therefore to finance our social protections on a sustainable basis! Not with slogans but with decisions and more economic activity!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip188x.u100	Mr Verherstraeten, you know that we are an ally when it comes to corporate taxation. We will make sure that it is budgetaryly neutral. You must understand, however, that if you announce once again today that if Johan Van Overtveldt's figures are not correct, this will not be at the expense of those who are struggling, we hardly believe that anymore. Every six months you promise here. You said at the time that the caiman tax would yield what it should yield, but that was not the case. Mr Van Rompuy writes a blog about this every week. That was the case with excise duties, and that was the case with the stock market tax. We therefore have a tendency to disbelieve the Minister of Finance in this respect. In the meantime, we tend to think that you buy a cat in a bag over and over again. This is again noted in the Summer Agreement, which, once again, represents a fearful amount of savings in social security, which still have to be implemented. It is more than half a billion, of which EUR 273 million are for pensioners. We see that every time. You may have your Arco file, but you must defend here again and again that in the agreements, in the budget tables, there are more savings in social security than in the greatest assets. It's the same every six months. You allow Mr Van Overtveldt to sabotage the situation again and again.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip188x.u101	Mr Calvo, you must remain serious. I remember a previous debate where you asked for figures, figures, figures. I refer to the report of the Institute of National Accounts, from which I quote the following passage: "Social benefits have increased by EUR 5 billion 338 million or an increase of 5,2% between 2014 and 2016. So don't say that social security is being saved. Yes, reforms are being implemented to ensure that our health care and our rising pension expenditure can be financed. However, there is an increase of EUR 5.3 billion. Those are the numbers. If you look at revenue, there is much to be said about it. We were just talking about corporation tax. Corporate taxation has increased by EUR 2.63 billion in two years. I refer again to the Institute of National Accounts. When it comes to tax and parafiscal revenue, this is an increase of EUR 4.8 billion. We can have the debate on what measures that has brought about and which have not, which have an effect and which have not. When the tax shift was discussed here two years ago, people said: tax cuts, okay, but where are the jobs? Now, according to the National Bank, 104 000 additional jobs have been created over the last two years. Those are the figures and those are the facts. The additional social expenditure amounts to five billion. Again, those are the figures and those are the facts.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip188x.u102	Colleagues, an enterprise-friendly policy is not just about taxation. With regard to our company law and the whole of our company law, this government has shipyards running and this autumn we will discuss designs, among other things, to make it possible to start up faster, so as to make it easier to set up a company. In addition to taxation, these are important matters in the context of company law. Ladies and gentlemen, the work has not yet been completed. Despite the fact that jobs are added, our labour market obviously faces structural problems. When we look at women, young people, the elderly, people with disabilities and persons of foreign origin, we have to say that their employment rate in the labour market is lower than in our neighbouring countries. Socially, that is unacceptable! Ladies and gentlemen, it must be our ambition to give these people a place in the labour market, based on and tailored to their competences. If yesterday the Prime Minister was right to point out that we are leading the way in terms of job vacancies in the euro area, that is the challenge. That is where the challenge lies to give these target groups the job to which they are entitled, to give them the opportunities in the labour market to which they are entitled, in consultation with the regional governments that are competent to do so. That is a challenge for the next 18 months, and we must tackle it. Ladies and gentlemen, for the same reason, we cannot accept discrimination on the labour market against people who want a job and seek it. That is why, within this majority, we have accepted and introduced misterycalls. I know, however, that reducing discrimination is primarily a matter of sensitisation. Secondly, it is a matter of self-regulation. However, if that is not possible, then there must also be a stick behind the door. There must therefore be anonymous practical tests, without raids, let us be clear about that. I remember that in the previous legislature we often discussed this within the majority, but we did not get out of it at that time. Ladies and gentlemen, we are making progress in this area. We cannot accept that older people, young people, women, people with disabilities and people of foreign origin are discriminated against in the labour market. This is socially unacceptable! I refer to the fact that we are going to give young people additional opportunities by reducing wage costs, without having to turn them in net. I refer to our approach to social dumping in the construction sector, which is socially fair. I also refer to the latest figures relating to job growth, which we have just discussed. This includes both full-time and part-time relations. Well, the number of full-time workers has grown phenomenally in 2016, just like part-time workers, while the number of limited part-time workers has even decreased. Part-time work is often part-time at the beginning of a career and may be transferred to full-time work thanks to the reduction in pay. For me, every job counts, preferably a full-time one. In any case, we are on the right track in this respect and the situation gradually improves. Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, you will have to acknowledge that the number of full-time jobs is increasing phenomenally and that the number of full-time jobs chosen is also increasing phenomenally. That's what the most up-to-date figures say. I would also like to speak in favour of looking beyond the statistics, ladies and gentlemen. In addition to additional jobs, I would also like to point out another figure. More and more people with jobs are falling out. Those figures have doubled over the last five years. We must not be blind to that. We need to understand that there are employees who are no longer able to cope and who no longer find a balance between their jobs and their private lives. We can't ignore that. We don't do that either. Besides manoeuvrable work, there must also be workable work. This can be done thanks to telework, thanks to the training courses, that can be done thanks to coaching to counter burn-outs in companies, and thanks to the reimbursement of performance of clinical psychologists. I realize that's only a first step. However, it is an important step because it at least takes mental health care out of the taboo. That will be necessary if we are to reverse those negative figures. That's the challenge.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip188x.u103	As far as psychologists are concerned, you are obviously right. But I'm pulling the alarm bell by turning to several of your CD&V colleagues. A few months ago, you decided to cut budgets for psychiatric care for children and adolescents. Should we remind you of that? Think about the figures for the annual suicide rate in Belgium! It's good to move forward on the issue of clinician psychologists, but you have really operated on the technique of communicating vases by going to puncture in the budgets of psychiatric care for children and adolescents! The Federal Council of Hospital Establishments has confirmed our analysis. Madam Minister, you have had it for ten days and we have still not heard you on the subject! The Council asks you to step back. Dear colleagues on the CD&V, Prime Minister, I ask you to turn around, otherwise your choice will seriously undermine the policy of mental health care, a crucial issue for our children and adolescents, adults of tomorrow.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip188x.u104	Mrs. Fonck, you ring the alarm every day. If the fire alarm is ringing every day, all day long, then one does not know when to start walking. (Protests from Mrs Fonck) I let you finish, let me finish. Every year we invest 55 million more in mental health care. Those are the facts. The closed envelope for the psychiatry of children remains the same in this year's budget compared to last year, when you say that savings will be made. There are no savings, but there are shifts within the envelope, because we believe that every child, in the north, the south, the west and the east, should be treated in the same qualitative way in child psychiatry. So stop procrastinating false facts. I know you don't like it, that it's not your will. If you do not think it is right that we invest 55 million more in mental health in structural terms a year, then you must have the courage to say that out loud.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip188x.u105	Madam Minister, you know very well what I'm talking about. I think there are colleagues from different parties of the majority here who will not be able to say the opposite with regard to what you have achieved for psychiatric care for children and adolescents. The reality is this: by addressing other subjects, you bypass the obstacle so as not to talk about it! I say again to you and to the Prime Minister: turn around or we will suffer damage!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip188x.u106	I would also like to make a suggestion to the House on this point, ladies and gentlemen. Mr Calvo, you are sitting in our assembly, so I assume that you also feel addressed. We are taking steps forward to make the combination of work and family possible. I note that in the Committee on Social Affairs there are a lot of legislative proposals from our and other groups, including the flexibilisation of parental leave, care leave for grandparents, so that they can take care of their grandchildren, and palliative leave. My proposal is to raise our ambitions in this area and raise the bar. Let us do this in the coming months. That seems absolutely necessary to me. Colleagues, that employers require flexibility to respond to certain economic questions and to guarantee the employment of their employees in the future, I have great sympathy for that. However, it is equally logical that employers will understand if employees also want a little flexibility to adapt to the needs they have in their families and their families, for example to provide a sick mother, daughter or son. Flexibility is a two-way street for Christian Democrats. It's not an or-or story; it's an en-and-story. I am convinced that both employers and employees will benefit from this in the future, given the shortage of labour.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip188x.u107	Mr Verherstraeten, you are the first of the majority to show a little bit of a sense of reality when it comes to the labour market and sometimes very difficult positions and tasks. When one hears Mr Dewael and Mr Van Quickenborne, their words show an unbridled belief in flexibility. This means that both colleagues talk far too little with single mothers or with young people who do not get into the housing market with an interim contract. You nuance and amend that, and I am grateful to you for that. The downside of the flexibilisation, to which you are so proud, Mr Dewael, is that in the meantime we have a record number of disabled people of almost 400 000, or as much as 5% of all citizens between 20 and 64. So you are right, Mr Verherstraeten, that you are at least slightly nuanced and amending the liberal story of flexibilisation. As on Sunday in The Seventh Day, you will once again raise your hand to work together on workable work. I believe that we should have done so and that the government should have done so much more from day one, especially when people are asked to work longer. Is that an offer by the whole majority, of all parties, to look at all the proposals in this area with an open eye? If so, then we are happy to work on it, but the commitment must be authentic, sincere and clear, because it is a problem which is currently affecting a great many people in our country.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip188x.u108	Mr Calvo, when I speak, I speak on behalf of our group, including myself. The majority always think that flexibility is a two-way street. It's about communicating vessels. We need to adapt more and more to each other's needs. That takes the longest and it will also deliver the most sustainable jobs. For me, that theme is so important that I don't think it's worth playing games with. We must try together to make progress in this area. I trust that the majority will accept that commitment. By the way, I see the Prime Minister nodding. Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to talk to you about purchasing power measures. I will not repeat what the Prime Minister has rightly said. The tax shift is mainly in favour of the lower and lower middle incomes. As he said yesterday, that's fiscal justice. Yes, it is. I am thinking not only of those who work, but also of those who do not get the chance because of circumstances, because they are sick or unlucky. The government is also paying attention to those who find it difficult. Minimum pensions are increasing. I shall come back to the discussion this morning and to the figures quoted. I'm going to deviate from the text I've prepared. I heard you say, Mr Calvo, that the minima, which we raised in this legislature, are insufficient to narrow the gap and widen the gap. Now, Mr Calvo, with all due respect, I must contradict you. That's really not right. Mr Beke has just pointed out that, for example, the living wage has risen by 9.2 percent in this legislature. Minimum pensions for single people rose by almost 8% and for families almost 9%. The income guarantee for older people increased by more than 7%. The disability allowance increased by more than 9%. In preparation for my speech yesterday, I also looked at the evolution of the index. Whether we study the maintenance index or the consumption index, since this government took office and today it has risen by about 5%. If we put the amounts that have been increased along the index, then these people have received a number of net, in real incomes, percentages, which they deserve more than rightly. In fact, we will increase these amounts even further in the remaining time of this legislature.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip188x.u109	Mr Verherstraeten, what you are saying may be true, but next to the story of revenue, there is also the story of expenditure. You will have to consider how much more the people involved will pay with their increased living wage. I am thinking of health care and the price of electricity and water. I also mention the three months instead of two months rent guarantee. That has to be taken into account. What is often not mentioned is inflation. In Belgium, inflation is one of the highest among the Member States of the European Union, which means that prices in our country have been rising much faster in comparison with our neighbouring countries for years. The people who depend on basic goods no longer belong, despite the increase in their living wage.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip188x.u110	Mrs De Coninck, I appreciate your social concern, but there are figures for it. The poverty line, of course, also takes into account the lifespan, which is rising every year. The objective thus increases and the question arises as to how much is then allocated to living wages. There are figures on the table. The difference is important. This morning, that difference has also been recognised as politically relevant. The claim that the difference would have been increased is not correct, because it has been reduced. The difference isn't huge, but it's narrowed down by now. We must also remember that the index jump was applied to it, but that has been processed and overtaken. We have now come in the years when the gap with the poverty line has already narrowed. Over the next two years, it should be further reduced. However, the difference has not been fully eliminated. I'll give you some figures. The poverty threshold for two adults with two children is EUR 2 341 in 2016. The social question is, of course, whether our society is prepared to give EUR 2 341 as a living wage to any family with two children. That's the poverty line. That statement is worth a debate. The government retains its objective of closing that hole. She gets a little closer there year after year. At the moment the track record of the current government is no worse than that of the previous government. I see the numbers here. I see where we ended in autumn 2014. I can only say that a great deal of progress has been made in the meantime.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip188x.u111	Do not turn it into an interparliamentary debate, especially when one of your party colleagues is on the floor. I would suggest that, as agreed, we concentrate the debate on the speaker. Mr De Vriendt, you will have the floor, preferably as short as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip188x.u112	Mr President, Mr Verherstraeten, I would like to ask you a very simple question. Is it still the intention of CD&V to raise benefits above the poverty threshold so that people in poverty can become stronger and escape the vicious circle of poverty? Since the beginning of your term of office, we have been farther away from this objective. In 2014, there was another 266 euro gap compared to the poverty threshold. Now that gap has only grown, in particular to EUR 297. The objective is therefore further removed than at the beginning of your reign, of a government of which CD&V is a part. Mr Verherstraeten, I would like to give a second example. Has the number of life labourers, so people in pure poverty, fallen during the current reign under CD&V administration? No, it's gone up. So there have been more wagers since you were in power in 2014 in an N-VA government. That is the bitter reality.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip188x.u113	I do not want to prevent the debate, but it is really against the agreements.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip188x.u114	Mr President, Mr De Vriendt, figures have their worth. We can have a discussion and debate whether we can quickly bridge the gap with the poverty threshold. That's another debate. However, numbers are numbers and the truth is the truth. We were indeed with a difference of 266 euros in 2014. We are, to be precise, with a difference of 247,35 euros in 2016. There are indeed more wagers. That is why we have increased the living wage by 9% over three years. Mrs De Coninck points out that inflation is high. That's right. Yeah, she's big. Something can also be done about it. However, what can be done about it is not what you want, and that is not what we want. One can intervene perfectly in the index. One can take out a lot of increases. But our index mechanism makes sure that increases are offset by additional purchasing power.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip188x.u115	For the sake of clarity, the ambition set out in the coalition agreement remains with us. We have said this on several occasions. We have already said this on Sunday evening and will repeat it today. Yesterday, moreover, the Prime Minister confirmed that this ambition is in no way abandoned. If you're talking about numbers, take the right figures. To indicate the gap with the poverty line, I have the table of the SILK study. This shows that the gap for single people in 2010 was 74 percent of what it should be. In 2016, it was 79 %. For a single parent with two children, the living wage was 88 % and now 91 %. Everywhere, Mr De Vriendt, there is an increase. The gap has narrowed. The gap has not been eliminated, that is correct. That is why we have also written in the coalition agreement that we must overcome this gap. But that gap has narrowed. That is not just what we say, that is what the studies say, that is what the figures say. So please quote the correct figures.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip188x.u116	Mr President, I will not repeat what my fellow Members have said on this point. I would like to briefly replicate the questions that have been asked. One thing is certain, ladies and gentlemen, in this legislative period the minimum levels have risen well above the index level. Rightly so, by the way. Those are the numbers. Other measures that have negative consequences for all people and, of course, for these people, have often been socially corrected by regional governments, and also by us. I refer to what the Prime Minister said yesterday. We still have 18 months to run. We have the ambition to complete the coalition agreement. Well, we endorse this. We know that there is still work to be done in this area. This work will be completed over the next 18 months in order to bridge that gap. That is our ambition!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip188x.u117	Mr President, Mr Verherstraeten, I thought you were finishing up, and I missed another piece, which I would like to address. But if you're not ready, I'll come back to that later.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip188x.u118	Colleagues, I now come to what...
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip188x.u119	Mr President, important personal fact. Mr Verherstraeten, I thank you for saying that it is and remains your ambition to close that gap. There's a discussion about the numbers. I think ours are right, you think so, but I would like to settle that further in committee. An important political question is whether we are going to close this gap or not. As soon as you say this, Mrs Demir is starting to get a bit of a bit of a sting. Mrs Demir, the Secretary of State for Combating Poverty, said this and I quote her: "I want to, but do you realize that this costs EUR 2 billion?' That happened right here in front of me. I heard right. That's what the Secretary of State for Combating Poverty said so loudly that the Prime Minister told her to shut up. How do you deal with that? How do you deal with a Secretary of State for Combating Poverty who says here that what you are proposing is totally unrealistic?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip188x.u120	Mr Calvo, I will be very clear, yesterday the Prime Minister spoke on behalf of the whole government and the whole majority, and we endorse that.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip188x.u121	Mr President, it is always good that Kristof Calvo plays the government's souffleur. I am very clear about the ambition. The ambition is there, including with me. I am very glad that we have already done a great deal. I would like to clarify that as the competent Secretary of State, so that the opposition knows what has already happened. The social minimums for living wages and for people with disabilities have already been increased by 9%. On an annual basis, this means 700 euros for a single person and 950 euros for a head of household. Since the start of the government, we have also increased the minimum pension for a single retired worker by EUR 1 070 per year. We have also increased it for the self-employed, by EUR 1 800 per year. We also outsourced the wealth envelope during this government in 2015 and 2016 by 100 percent. It will be paid for 2017 and 2018 at 76 %. We all know that it was only 60% during the Di Rupo administration. Social minima also increased by 6% during the previous legislature. I want to be very clear about the social minimums. We are a welfare state, and if we want to call ourselves a welfare state, then we must do everything we can and do everything we can to increase those social minimums. I am also very realistic in that. I told the Prime Minister that too. The Prime Minister also said yesterday that he acknowledges that it is difficult. Difficult, however, does not mean that it is not possible. We still have 18 months to go. Mrs Lanjri, you know that Yves Leterme said in 2007 at Rerum Novarum that he would pay two billion to raise the social minimums to the European poverty line. (...): (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip188x.u122	Mr President, may I speak?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip188x.u123	Yes, but I would ask you to pursue some conciseness.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip188x.u124	I just want to point out that this ambition has been in every government: with Leterme, Van Rompuy, Di Rupo, and we have that ambition too. We have already done a great deal and we will do a great deal. I'll keep knocking on that nail as Secretary of State for Combating Poverty. I will continue to do so, but I am counting on everyone in the government to participate in that ambition.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip188x.u125	In any case, let it be clear that it will not be up to our group and the majority to achieve that ambition. The Prime Minister's words on this dossier have not been deafened anywhere in our country, and this should also be reflected in the rest of the legislature. Prime Minister, you mentioned three files in the previous State of the Union: the reform of corporate taxation, a fair tax and the activation of savings. In our speech at the time, you will recall that those files were linked, not for political and strategic reasons, but because they were linked in substance. You promised at the time that you would solve those files. Well, Prime Minister, you have kept your word and you have reached a balanced agreement on those dossiers. Thank you for that. I will meet you, Mr Vanvelthoven. I know that some people like to make a caricature of the proposals that our group has put forward on this subject with regard to fair taxation. However, fiscal justice is no longer a burden. Tax justice for us is different. Fiscal justice for us is a fair distribution of efforts, so that, in accordance with the coalition agreement, the strongest shoulders bear the heavy burden. The need to change taxation is not only a matter of political choices, but also of changing society and changing revenue flows to which a government and every majority must adapt, including these, and we are doing so. A fair tax is much more than one tax law. Fair taxation is much wider. Yesterday, the Prime Minister pointed out that, among other things, this tax shift is very fair because it spares the lower income. There was enough talk of this during the debate this morning. How about we look at the corporate tax measure? He has been forgotten, but we have an added value tax in the Summer Agreement on the sale of shares within companies, which will yield a very relevant return, between 250 and 300 million. What are we gonna do with that? In doing so, we encourage SMEs and the small self-employed. I think that's very fair. That is also fiscal justice. If we close loopholes, tackle abuses and do proper controls, that is also fiscal justice. The Cayman tax is a new tax from this legislature, on which we are very cogent, with which we have experience. We also note that some things are not working perfectly, and we are therefore putting forward proposals to tighten up this caiman tax, to tackle the trusts. The government does that and expands the caiman tax. That is also fiscal justice. If we impose minimum taxes on companies, especially large companies, in order to discourage them from avoiding taxes in this way, that is also tax justice. For our group, the securities tax is also fiscal justice.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip188x.u126	Mr Verherstraeten, I have listened carefully and I get the impression that you want to sell us that the securities tax is the added value tax on shares, which of course he is not. I have heard you quote from your election programme at the beginning and I have heard Mr Beke quote from a number of reports. I would also like to read you a quote from this Parliament's Integral Report: However, I do not get it explained that a worker of a multinational who performs an overtime and pays taxes on it, while the CEO of the same multinational when he receives shares and gets added value from it does not have to pay taxes on it. I don't get that explained. That's a quote from Servais Verherstraeten last year on the chair. How do you explain that you buried today, a solution to what you weren't told then? You're going to have to explain that to your constituents now. I really do not understand why CD&V has dropped the surplus tax on shares, which is indeed the cornerstone of fair taxation and for which you have rightly argued and received support from a majority of Parliament over the last three years. I'd like to hear from you why you dropped that. You also mentioned the proceeds of the securities tax: EUR 254 million. By the way, Minister, Prime Minister, that figure was launched. If we ask for the figures of corporation tax, everyone looks down and nothing is said. But that figure is being put forward. Two weeks after it was proposed, the Minister of Finance has already said that this is not going to happen and that we will never make it to EUR 254 million. I would like to know your opinion on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip188x.u127	Mr Verherstraeten, the securities tax must be EUR 254 million, but the government itself no longer believes in it. That has proved sufficient. At the same time, your government has the courage to get EUR 286 million from pensioners. So the government gets more money from the pensions of ordinary people than from the 1% super rich. So far, your tax justice. You do believe in that, but the government is strong when it comes to saving pensions. It was your last chance to reach a fair deal, but you missed the boat. That really makes me wonder how CD&V can explain that? What are you still doing in the government, which apparently wants to raise more money from pensioners than taxing the 1% super rich?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip188x.u128	Mr Verherstraeten, I understand that you presented the title account tax as a CD&V trophy. It's true that the speculation tax, your previous trophy, had a rather unenviable fate. I have two questions. First, why are the richest in this country going to escape? I take Albert Brother's example. I could take Spoelberch's or some other. Someone who has 600,000 euros of GBL shares will pay the tax. On the other hand, Albert Frère, the owner of GBL, who has 6 billion euros, will not pay because he does not have them via securities accounts. Why does an average shareholder have to pay, unlike a very rich one? Then I take the case of a person who owns 2 million euros spread over 4 securities accounts. Because we don't know what she owns, she'll get away from the tax. The Minister of Finance said it was problematic, but the Prime Minister replied that we were not going to make a cadastre of fortunes. So it's like a signal to tell people that it's easy to cheat and not pay the tax. It's very simple. You scatter your savings on several securities accounts. Like this, you will escape the tax. The Prime Minister himself gives the means to escape this tax. How do you explain that?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip188x.u129	Ladies and gentlemen, I am trying to answer all the questions together. You know the proposals we have put forward in recent years, Mr Vanvelthoven. There was an added value tax on shares. Let me be quite clear, however: not for small and medium-sized enterprises. There was an important exemption to spare the middle class. Every eurocent reinvested was exempted in this respect. It was a tax proposal that was quickly translated by the Greens' fellow Members to be presented here. The proposal went to the Council of State for advice and calculations were made. That is precisely because we had put so many brakes on it, because we wanted to keep the tax fair for entrepreneurs too, because that too is fair taxation... was the estimate of revenue 88 million. We had a discussion on this. We have received a proposal on this from the Prime Minister and the majority have accepted it. I think that is a good proposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip188x.u130	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip188x.u131	So you say. Mr Vanvelthoven, I can also quote others. Among other things, I can quote a professor whom we often ask for advice in this House and who has worked as an expert in the cabinet of your current party chairman, John Crombez, in particular Professor Maus. He said that the securities tax is a capital tax that one would not expect from a center-right government. That's what he said. The figures in this respect are indeed clear. They were also made clear by the Prime Minister, as well as by the Minister of Finance. You refer to what appeared in the press and also to the Integrated Report. Well, I will also refer to the Integrated Report, in particular what the Finance Minister said last Thursday. He said this: This morning the government confirmed the inclusion of EUR 254 million in the 2018 budget for the implementation of this measure. ........................................................................................ He also said: "The Summer Agreement is a very strong, balanced agreement, which all parties have approved. Therefore, I have no doubt that all the elements of the Summer Agreement must and will be implemented. I'm adding y compris de effecte tax. We can speculate a great deal on this, ladies and gentlemen, but I have just looked at the figures of the National Bank. If you look at the shares, investment funds and debt instruments from 31 March 2017, which will be covered by this future bill, you will see an amount of 312 billion euros. What population group is affected by this measure, according to the National Bank? 21 per cent of Belgians would have investment funds, 11 per cent would have shares and 7.8 per cent would have bonds and cash funds. If we then look at the threshold and what category of people we are talking about, then I see that this tax, in the light of the total amount of funds, is not enough for the middle class. This was, by the way, the ambition of the entire government. Moreover, if I know that, for example, in the case of shares of 1% of Belgians, 50% of the shares are held, and that, in the case of investment funds, the distribution is also very uneven, according to the National Bank, it means that a very small category of very wealthy people are very much in favour of them; this does not disturb me at all. This also applies to bonds and notes. It therefore seems realistic to me to achieve the proposed amount. The Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance have committed themselves to this. The texts must and will be adapted accordingly. If necessary, the texts will also have to be adapted to the opinions of the Council of State. In any case, it is the first time that a government has proposed the introduction of a capital tax. The levying of such a tax with relevant revenues seems to me to be an important factor in the notion of justice. Colleagues, I'm finishing up. Prime Minister, you also agreed on Arco in the Summer Agreement. I heard you say yesterday that you said the same thing as last year. That is fundamentally incorrect. You said that you were looking for a solution whereby the Arco savers would be partially reimbursed in connection with the privatisation of Belfius and that this government had already had contacts with the European Commission on this matter. That is important because it is an important step to bring this dossier to a successful conclusion, because it is also an actor in this dossier. Ladies and gentlemen, let us be clear, we all benefit from a solution in this dossier, not only the 800 000 Arco savers, but also Belfius and therefore also the taxpayer. This is part of the summer chord. It was already part of the agreements during the formation of the government. I quote our Minister of Finance: "The Summer Agreement applies in its entirety and all measures will be faithfully implemented, including this dossier. This is important for ordinary people with small savings. Mr President, I will be brief on security, because I want to respond somewhat to what the Prime Minister said yesterday. We were confronted with the attacks in Zaventem and Maalbeek and we will never forget the victims and their families. The government has tremendously armed itself to organise and improve the security of our citizens, with numerous legal and police measures, one of them also with the support of the opposition. I believe that a healthy balance has been struck between security in society and citizens' rights and freedoms. We have learned that we must not only pay attention to safety, but also to the material and psychological suffering of the victims and their families. The Prime Minister has made that clear. Every victim counts, and that is what I have heard this morning for victims of other crimes. The same applies to the victims of road traffic offences, where too many people are killed and too many are injured. The government's ambition is to tighten up the penalties in this area and to tackle multiple victims, especially in terms of hit-and-run and driving under the influence of alcohol or drugs. Here too, the number of victims should be reduced. Colleagues, this government is making sure that people who want to undertake can take action. This government provides oxygen for the economy, by reducing the burden on labour, by increasing competitiveness and by reforming corporate law. This government increases purchasing power, both for those who have a job and for those who cannot get a job because of unfortunate circumstances. This government provides tax justice. This government will provide more security. Prime Minister, for these reasons, our group will, with great confidence, give you the confidence.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip188x.u132	Mr President, I imagine that we are not changing what is agreed, that is to say that everyone will be able to speak on the Prime Minister's statement before he answers. I guess there's no change in that. This, in order to avoid the difficulties we had experienced last year, when some spoke after the Prime Minister's response.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip188x.u133	Two things one. We had a deal. He wasn't respected. I can see that. I cannot prevent the government from asking for the floor. According to the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure, he must be given the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip188x.u134	Mr President, we will continue the debate this afternoon. You say the agreement is not respected. Let us recall for this afternoon: speakers have 20 minutes in the rostrum and statements from the bench are possible, but limited to two minutes. It's your role to intervene if you think it's over. In addition, interactions must take place either with a minister or with the person in the gallery. That's the rule. If we stick to that, there is no reason for the Prime Minister or the government to step out of the agreement. Let's remember that at the beginning of the session and everything will be fine, you'll see.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip188x.u135	Mr President, the Rules of Procedure provide for the possibility at every moment for the government to ask for the floor in the debates. It was on the basis of this point in the Rules of Procedure that last year we had a very kind and exciting discussion on the subject. I understand that, at the Conference of Presidents, accommodation was decided between the leaders of the opposition and the majority groups. As far as I am concerned, my intention is to respect the agreements you have reached. If Parliament wishes not to respect its own agreements, it is its freedom. In any case, we will respect the agreements you have entered into. I shall therefore only speak after hearing all the parliamentary groups.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-11-54-plenair-ip188x.u136	Ladies and gentlemen, I would suggest that we do what has been agreed, in particular an hour's rest. I suggest we start the afternoon meeting at 2:40 p.m. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Wednesday 11 October 2017 at 2.40 p.m. The meeting is adjourned. Next sitting on Wednesday, October 11, 2017 at 14.40 hours.
