ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-13-54-commissie-ic722x.u1	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Welcome. Our committee is one of the first to begin its work, specifically on oral questions. As usual, many questions are addressed to the Minister of the Interior. In order to avoid the accumulation of questions and then difficult to process, we start today. We will use some leniency for those who cannot be present. After all, a number of parties organise group days. We will try to take that into account and we will not therefore immediately cancel a question because someone cannot be present today. In the future, of course, we will be stricter. Let us say that it is a transitional measure, as is customary in a number of political situations.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-13-54-commissie-ic722x.u2	Mr. Chairman, Deputy Prime Minister, the Privacy Commission has agreed to the draft Royal Order to introduce mandatory passenger data collection and processing as part of the strengthening of national security. Elements such as the identity of the persons, their address, the date of reservation of their ticket, the means of payment or the complete travel itinerary should be involved in order to identify and deal with all suspected cases of terrorism but also of serious crime. At the outset, I welcome this news that will allow the security services to have these tools available in the course of their mission. However, I would have liked some clarification through a series of questions. What is the timetable for the publication of the said decree and its effective implementation? Which data processing unit will it be responsible for? What are the human and logistical means of doing this? What are the mechanisms for ensuring the most complete protection of this database? What is the state of play of the discussions on the extension of this project to passengers using means of transport other than the aircraft? Finally, what measures are planned to inform travel agencies and airlines of their obligations?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-13-54-commissie-ic722x.u3	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I wish you a good return to Parliament. Mr. Calomne, with respect to the scheduled schedule, the Royal Order, which received the green light from the Privacy Commission, is dated July 18, 2017. It relates to the enforcement of the law of 25 December 2016 on the processing of passenger data and the obligations for airlines. The Royal Decree was issued on 28 July 2017 and came into force on 7 August 2017. It further develops the obligations of airlines and the arrangements for the transfer of passenger data. The answer to your last question further explains its effective implementation. The modalities of operation of the Passenger Information Unit (PIU) are not specified in this Royal Decree. These are included in a draft royal decree which also implements the law of 25 December 2016. This draft royal decree was approved at first reading in July by the Council of Ministers and is currently being submitted for opinion to various bodies, including the Council of State, the Commission for the Protection of Privacy and the Trade Union Bargaining Committees. The IPU will be composed of a senior official, seconded members from each of the relevant departments, lawyers, officials responsible for connections to transport operators, analysts and administrative support. The necessary logistical resources, financed from appropriations in the interdepartmental provision Terro, will be allocated to ensure its proper functioning. With regard to the passenger data bank, its operating rules are set out in the law of 25 December 2016. They will be further elaborated in the draft Royal Decree mentioned above and in the Memorandum of Understanding with the relevant departments to be submitted to the Privacy Commission for its opinion. The system of communication of information covered by the law of 25 December 2016 has not yet been approved by the National Security Authority (ANS), but this approval will in any case be carried out in accordance with the above-mentioned law. The said law also provides for the drafting of a royal decree for each other mode of transport concerned in order to take as far as possible account of the specificities of each sector. They are consulted and closely involved in the drafting of the decree and in its implementation. However, this can only be effectively implemented in collaboration with neighbouring States. As regards high-speed trains, an agreement was reached last March in an international task force composed of Belgian, Dutch, French and British experts. It implies that the countries concerned make common commitments with regard to the collection of data from passengers on high-speed trains. In concrete terms, an impact assessment is being carried out in collaboration with Thalys, Eurostar and Eurotunnel. The Belgian, Dutch and French railway companies also participated in its analysis and follow-up. Based on the results of the study, the Task Force will take steps towards a common policy for the collection of passenger data. Discussions on international bus transport will begin on the margins of the next Task Force meeting, to be held in October, to which Germany will also be invited. Our objective is also to involve the sector as much as possible and to achieve joint commitments with neighbouring States. As far as maritime transport is concerned, the first discussions took place. In addition, possible synergies with other initiatives already taken are being explored. In response to your question on the memorandum of understanding between the IPU and the services concerned, I can inform you that regular consultations with them are under way, on the basis of which the memorandum of understanding will be concluded as soon as the Royal IPU Decree has been issued. The text will also be submitted to the Privacy Commission for its opinion. With regard to awareness-raising measures, Belgium is one of the only Member States of the European Union to organise structural consultations with the air transport sector in order to involve it as much as possible in our work. The obligations imposed by the Act of 25 December 2016 and by the Royal Decree of 18 July 2017 will enter into force in each airline after the document containing the technical guidelines has been sent. This last text consists of both the implementation instructions and technical information. The former describe in detail the obligations defined by law and by the Royal Decree, while providing for a reasonable period of time for the companies themselves to comply with the legislation. Finally, the Royal Decree on Travel Operators will be drawn up and concluded at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-13-54-commissie-ic722x.u4	Minister, thank you for your answers. We will, of course, remain attentive to the development of this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-13-54-commissie-ic722x.u5	Debates of the European Parliament 19984 by Mrs Jadin will be converted into a written question. Question No 5, by Mr De Gucht 20048 by Mrs Onkelinx will be converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-13-54-commissie-ic722x.u6	Mr President, Mr Deputy Prime Minister, in an opinion delivered on 26 July 2007 to the European Parliament, the Court of Justice of the European Union considers that the draft NRP agreement in question, linking the European Union and Canada in the exchange of data, cannot be concluded in its present form because of the incompatibility of several of its provisions with the fundamental rights guaranteed by the European Union. One of the main criticisms of the Court of Justice of the European Union concerns the retention and use of PNR data of passengers unknown to the security services during and after their stay in Canada. The Court notes as well that "once these passengers have spent their stay on the other side of the Atlantic, the use of these NRPs must be based on new circumstances justifying such use". However, according to the judgment in question, "the continuous storage of PNR data for all air passengers after their departure from Canada is not "limited to the strict necessary". For air passengers for whom a risk of terrorism or serious transnational crime has not been identified upon arrival in and until departure from Canada, the need to retain their PNR data in relation to the purpose of the agreement is not justified. Conversely, the principle of retention of PNR data for problematic or identified dangerous passengers is validated, as judged to be proportionate. As I pointed out to you during the debate we had in the Committee on the Interior on 21 October 2016 on your Belgian PNR bill, you hastily transposed the European directive, when this request for an opinion to the Court of Justice was pending and the Advocate General's conclusions – which are generally followed – were already known. However, the Court's opinion on this agreement with Canada also focuses on the substance, namely the rationale for the widespread and indiscriminate collection of PNR data in general. In addition, you said at the same committee: "Today it is a matter of ensuring the interoperability of the system with the systems of the passenger information units of foreign countries, with the systems of Europol, the United States, Canada and Australia". This is proof that the data in question are linked. Deputy Prime Minister, in the recommendations concluding his opinion, the Court of Justice suggests that the European Parliament "shall provide that the databases used shall be limited to those used by Canada in connection with the fight against terrorism and serious transnational crime". However, the PNR law now passed is also justified by "improved border control and the fight against illegal immigration" – which is quite another thing than serious transnational crime and terrorism! How do you envisage implementing this case law of the Court in the current drafting of the implementing orders of the PNR Act?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-13-54-commissie-ic722x.u7	Mr Hellings, the law of 25 December 2016 on the processing of passenger data, transposes the PNR directive, but also the API directive, and therefore constitutes more than a PNR law. It's also an API law. The aim of the improvement of border control and the fight against illegal immigration can be found, in particular, in Article 8 § 2 and Chapter 11 of the Law of 25 December 2016. It concerns the processing of API (Advanced Passenger Information) data - not PNR data - by the border control police and by the Office of Foreigners and is a literal transposition of the API Directive. The retention period for this data is 24 hours. However, PNR data are not used in the context of improving border control and improving the fight against illegal immigration. The purpose of "terrorism and serious crime", which can be found in Article 8 § 1 of the Law of 25 December 2016, results from the transposition of the PNR Directive. This includes terrorism as well as the offences listed in Annex 2 to this Directive. Thus, these are not offences that would be more minor offences, but only offences that meet the definition of serious crime referred to in the PNR Directive. The opinion of the Court of Justice argues that only the databases used in the fight against terrorism and serious transnational crime can be used. The PNR Directive and the Law of 25 December 2016, which carefully transposes the Directive, meet this requirement. Since the purposes of the PNR Directive and the API Directive are correctly transposed into the Law of 25 December 2016, they should no longer be further developed in implementing orders. The opinion of the Court of Justice will therefore have no impact on the royal decrees. In addition, the European Commission stated in a press release that it took note of the opinion of the Court of Justice of the European Union on the agreement between the European Union and Canada on the "passengers and PNR" case. It will now carefully consider the opinion and its possible implications.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-13-54-commissie-ic722x.u8	Mr Hellings, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-13-54-commissie-ic722x.u9	Mr President, I would not allow myself to speak without you giving it to me. I have too much respect for the chairman of the committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-13-54-commissie-ic722x.u10	Thank you for your great respect.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-13-54-commissie-ic722x.u11	It's an important value in the eyes of the N-VA. I respect the values of the opponents. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, I thank you for your answer and your clarification of the differences between the API Directive and the PNR Directive. What you just said is very important. I have taken it from your answer to the previous question that Germany, although invited to do so, has so far not participated in the discussions on rail transport. It's probably a matter of substance. The PNR Directive, which is transposed by the Act of 25 December 2016, is criticized in substance by the opinion delivered by the Court of Justice of the European Union. The criticism is about the substance, the indiscriminate collection of data from people who do not a priori represent a danger, even minimal, to our security in the field of terrorism. This is what is being criticized in substance by the Court of Justice of the European Union. You know, like me, that your law transposing this PNR directive has been appealed to the Constitutional Court, where an appeal is pending. However, the Belgian Constitutional Court is a good student of the case law of the Court of Justice of the European Union. The opinion just given on a completely different text will greatly influence the judicial activity of the Court of Justice of the European Union and the Constitutional Court. At some point, this supreme body, whether at European or Belgian level, will have to say whether it is justified and proportionate to collect data from everyone; knowing that what is compatible with European law is to collect data from people who represent a danger, even minimal. These people must be only a few thousand across the continent and not 11 million potential passengers across Belgium. That is exactly what I told you during the parliamentary debates. Unfortunately, I fear that history will make us right.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-13-54-commissie-ic722x.u12	Mr. Hellings, I have a little clarification. Your reasoning about Germany is not on the road. Of course, for the rail aspect, the Germans have made the choice not to participate yet. But they participate in low cost buses, on the basis of the same law. I believe that their refusal to participate in the discussions on rail transport is linked to the elections in Germany. But about the buses, they take part.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-13-54-commissie-ic722x.u13	Minister, thank you for that clarification. You know that the Deutsche Bahn has, in covered words, threatened to no longer link Brussels and other cities in the country with Germany. Indeed, Deutsche Bahn is an ecological railway operator, since this way of transport in Europe is particularly environmentally friendly. However, the application of the PNR Directive to the train results in the train losing its comparative advantage in terms of ease of access, especially in relation to the aircraft. This is something that you, in particular, and all of us must bear in mind: ensuring that these security measures, as you say, are not problematic either from the point of view of managing our mobility, more specifically green and sustainable mobility.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-13-54-commissie-ic722x.u14	Minister, it has been a while since the new annual report of the Vice-Governor of Brussels-Capital on the non-application of language legislation in Brussels municipalities and OCMW's with figures for 2016. The findings in the annual reports are the same every year: language legislation is being trampled on by the local authorities in Brussels. Every year it gets worse and worse. If that was not the case, then I did not have to interrupt you on that every year. The figures for 2016 speak for themselves. Only 32.8 % of appointments and promotions in Brussels municipalities were made in accordance with the language law. Of the 1 338 files checked by the vice-governor, no less than 899 were not in order with the language law. In the OMCW's, the situation is even more dramatic, as in 2016 only 11% of the files were in order and 882 of the 991 files were not found to be in order by the vice-governor. It is very worrying that the virus to violate the language law has now also affected statutory appointments. Until a few years ago, statutory relations were still somewhat free from language violations, but in the meantime they are no longer. In 2016, 26% of the statutory relations on the French-speaking side of the municipalities were illegal and 16% of the OCMW's. As always, the Brussels government's supervisory authorities, the GGC College, do not give up when it comes to destroying the appointments suspended by the vice-governor. In his report, the Vice-Governor states that he was aware of illegal appointments that had been declared null and void. We can therefore rest assured that none of the 1 781 suspended files were destroyed by the supervisory authorities. However, the Brussels Government is well aware that, according to repeated case-law of the Council of State, the powers of destruction of these bodies are not optional but are legally required to be destroyed. They should not give up on that. There is therefore the greatest possible incivism because of the Brussels Government and the College of the GCC. Another finding in the annual report is that the legal language parity for higher relations is also severely violated. In 2016, only 35% of the higher relations in the municipalities were occupied by Dutch speakers and the OCMW is 32.5 %. This happens every time instead of the statutory 50%, which actually leaves about 65% of the top jobs to the Dutch speakers. For lower relations, at least 25% of each language group should legally go to each language group and the vice-governor has not given any figures on this for many years, but you can be sure that many hundreds and perhaps thousands of jobs are being stolen from the Flemings at that level. If I take the number of files submitted to the vice-governor as an indicator, that is also significant. Of the 1 338 municipal files he received in 2016, only 19 percent of the Dutch speakers and only 11 percent of the 948 OCMW files mattered to the Flemings. This situation also deteriorates linearly every year. If one compares it with five years ago, 2012, then 42% of municipal recruitments were correct. Now that's 33 %. Also in 2012, 20% of the OCMW recruitments were still in order, now 11 %. I have interviewed you about this in the last three years after every report by the Vice-President, because you are responsible for language legislation in Brussels. However, you have always stated that you are not competent, because supervision is exercised by those Brussels authorities. The latter is, of course, correct, at least partially. However, the supervision lies with the Brussels authorities in the pardon of the federal government. You can certainly remove that control from the Brussels authorities, if you like. I have already referred to Article 7 (1) (2) of the special law on the reform of the institutions in a written question. This explicitly allows the federal government, by way of derogation from the general administrative supervision of the Regions, to organise and exercise specific administrative supervision on matters falling within its competence. In this context, you have always pointed out that the vice-governor exercises specific administrative supervision. That is doubtful, if we can believe the Permanent Commission for Language Monitoring. In addition, language legislation in Brussels is one of the federal powers. So even if we were to assume that the Deputy Governor is currently carrying out a specific administrative supervision which is very incomplete, because he only has the power of suspension, then you are still perfectly competent to organise and exercise that specific administrative supervision fully, including as regards the power of destruction. So you can perfectly eliminate the incivian Brussels supervisory authorities and, for example, entrust the power of destruction to the vice-governor. For the past three years, it's always been a well-nickle. You claim you don't have that authority. What I haven't had in recent years when I was talking to you about this was the recent opinion of the Standing Committee on Language Monitoring, which fully supports my view. In so many words, everything is literally confirmed. So the only thing I can suspect is that you do not want to do anything about the illegal situation. You can and can do something about it, but you must also want to do something about it. Supposing that it is not legally possible, as you have always maintained so far, can certainly not be done anymore. Mr Minister, my question to you is therefore whether you will take an initiative to withdraw the monitoring of the application of the language law entirely from those Brussels authorities by organising and carrying out fully specific administrative supervision in this area, whether or not through the vice-governor. If you will take these measures, what will be the modalities and within what time limit? If you're not going to do that, I'd like to know what's preventing you from doing that. Finally, the minimum minimum of alternative initiatives that you might be able to take is the appointment of the Consultative Committee, so that the Brussels authorities are at least called upon to do so.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-13-54-commissie-ic722x.u15	Ms Pas, the sixth state reform stipulated that the federal government would pay back language premiums of EUR 25 million annually to officials of Brussels municipalities and OCMWFs, but also to IRIS hospitals and to a number of institutions of the Brussels Region. Last year I also thought about the report of the Vice-Governor and it seemed illogical to me that, on the one hand, so many officials receive a bilingual bonus, while, on the other hand, it appears that there are hardly any officials who have a Selorat test. I have therefore made agreements with the Brussels-Capital Region. Only if this is met will I be drawing up this year an RB that will allocate EUR 25 million. The terms are as follows. Firstly, the Deputy Governor will provide me with a report on the period from 1 May to 31 October. For the following years, the report will cover the period from 1 November to 31 October. For that period, only officials of services for which the reimbursement of language premiums is requested, who have a Selor language certificate, may be recruited. It is therefore not only about the municipalities and OCMWFs, but also about the IRIS hospitals. The second condition is that the Brussels-Capital Region provides me with a list of all officials for whom reimbursement of their language premium is requested. Then my services at Selor will check if those officials have a Selor language certificate. The third condition is that the Brussels-Capital Region will provide me with a route, with regard to officials who do not yet have a certificate, indicating the period within which those officials will have a certificate. For this year, an additional number of officials will thus obtain a Selorat test. Only if these three conditions are met will the Royal Decree concerning the EUR 25 million be issued. In this way, I would like to put pressure on the municipalities and OCMWFs to comply with language laws.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-13-54-commissie-ic722x.u16	Minister, you are finally putting some pressure on me, but you have not answered my questions. Clearly, you are not taking any initiative to remove supervision entirely from the Brussels authorities, which you can do legally perfectly. We have already put forward a legislative initiative on this subject. In fact, this is still being discussed by our committee. This, of course, removes the cause. This does not help you to fight symptoms or exert a little pressure from the outside. That solution would at least bring about some progress. I didn't get any answers to my question as to why you don't want to do that. I cannot imagine that if you apply existing legislation in this area, it could be part of the Community's standstill. I cannot imagine that your party has agreed not to do anything concrete from the government about the massive violations of the existing language law in administrative matters. So I fear that the pressure agent will mean figs after Easter and will be insufficient for a long time. I can only repeat the question of why you are not taking the initiative. I am very interested in voting when the legislative initiative will be presented to the Chamber. I hope, Minister, that you will be able to change your mind with a motion of recommendation.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-13-54-commissie-ic722x.u17	At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. A motion of recommendation was tabled by Mrs Barbara Pas and reads as follows: "The Chamber, heard the interplay of Mrs Barbara Pas and the reply of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Security and Home Affairs, with responsibility for the Directorate of Buildings, - having regard to the coordinated laws of 18 July 1966 on the use of languages in administrative matters, in particular Article 21; - having regard to the report of the Deputy Governor of the Administrative Arrondissement of Brussels-Capital for the year 2016, - whereas in 2016, 67.2% of recruitments by Brussels municipalities were in breach of the language law in administrative matters; - whereas, in the same year, 89 percent of the recruitments by the Brussels OMCWs were in breach of the language law in administrative matters; - whereas, in accordance with the settled caselaw of the Council of State, Brussels supervisory authorities have not destroyed any of the illegal appointments, although the power of destruction conferred on them has not been granted optionally, but an obligation; - whereas, in the Brussels municipalities, only 35% of the relations and in the Brussels OMCWs only 32.5 % of the jobs received Dutch speakers in 2016, of the higher relations, where legal parity is required; - considering that in the distribution of lower-level relations at municipal level in 2016 only 19% of the jobs went to Dutch speakers and barely 11% in the field of OMCWs, although legally at least 25% should go to each language group, calls on the government to take all necessary measures in the short term to ensure that the existing language law in administrative matters is properly respected in Brussels local authorities and in accordance with the principles of the rule of law." A motion for recommendation was tabled by Ms. Barbara Pas and reads as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the inquiry of Mrs Barbara Pas and the response of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Security and Interior, responsible for the Régie des Bâtiments, - having regard to the coordinated laws of 18 July 1966 on the use of languages in administrative matters, and in particular article 21 thereof; - having regard to the report of the Vice-Governor of the administrative district of Brussels-Capital for the year 2016; - Whereas in 2016, 67.2% of the recruitments carried out by Brussels municipalities violated the provisions of the Law on the use of languages in administrative matters; Whereas in the same year 89% of recruitments carried out by Brussels CPAS violated the provisions of the Law on the use of languages in administrative matters; - Whereas the Brussels supervisory authorities have not annulled any unlawful appointment, whereas, according to the settled case-law of the Council of State, the power of annulment conferred on them is not optional, but compulsory; - Whereas in 2016 only 35% of higher-level jobs were allocated to Dutch speakers at the level of the Brussels communes, a rate which rises to only 32.5% at the level of the Brussels CPAS, whereas the law prescribes parity; - Whereas in 2016 only 19% of lower-level jobs were allocated to Dutch-speaking people at the municipal level, a rate which rises to only 11% at the CPAS level, whereas the law requires that at least 25% of jobs be allocated to each language group, Calls on the Government to take all necessary measures in the near future to ensure that Brussels local administrations also comply with the law on the use of languages in administrative matters in accordance with the principles of the rule of law." A simple motion was tabled by Mr Koen Metsu. A simple motion was tabled by Mr. Koen Metsu. The motions will be voted on later. The meeting's over. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-13-54-commissie-ic722x.u18	Minister, at an international conference on security in Munich, Mr Rob Wainwright of Europol pointed out that air ticket fraud involves global security risks. It avoids obstacles to the rapid movement of terrorists and criminals, and also facilitates certain forms of crime such as illegal migration, trafficking in human beings, trafficking in human beings and smuggling of illicit drugs. According to the International Air Transport Association, which represents 275 airlines or 83% of total air traffic, air ticket fraud accounts for a billion dollars a year in loss. Since 2013, Europol has been organising the Global Airline Action Days, tracking down people with fake tickets with the help of the European Cybercrime Centre. It brings together representatives of airlines, online travel organisations and payment systems. The latest Global Airline Action Days took place in October 2016 at 189 airports in 43 countries with 75 airlines and 8 online travel agencies. 190 people were arrested. Was Belgium also involved in the Global Airline Action Days in October 2016? In what way did that happen? What were the results for Belgian airports, airlines or travel agencies? Were there people with a false ticket on their way to Belgium or left Belgium? If so, how many? How many times was Belgium previously involved in such Global Airline Action Days? What were the results then? How can Belgium, alone or together with other countries, take initiatives to better combat such digital fraud? Have any concrete preparations been launched for this?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-13-54-commissie-ic722x.u19	In the aftermath of the attacks in 2016, the Federal Police Aviation Police did not participate in the Global Airline Action Days in 2016. However, there was a Belgian participation on 16 and 17 June 2015 and in June of this year. To date, the aviation police have participated twice in the Global Airline Action Days, i.e. in 2015 and 2017. No cases were made in 2015. Both the LPA Brussels National and the LPA Gosselies participated. With regard specifically to the results of participation in the 2017 Global Airline Action Days, i.e. very recently, for the Brussels National Airport, three cases were introduced. A first case was dismissed by Europol itself. In the second case, the suspect could not be intercepted at Brussels National Airport, but all his passenger data could be transmitted to Europol. We are not aware of the further development of this case because of the lack of feedback from Europol. In the third case, the defendant was also not intercepted by the services of the Brussels National Airport Aviation Police due to the late warning due to procedures. The first check is done by the airlines, the second check through the banks and the third by the police. However, a report was drawn up for the defendant. In the three cases, these were flights departing from Belgium. No reports were made of persons on their way to Belgium with fake tickets. The other Belgian international airports have also focused on the phenomenon. However, no cases of online plane ticket fraud have been identified. In conclusion, it is not because there were no catches during the action days, that we can assume that there are no cases. The actions took place in a short period of time and constitute a snapshot. Until now, online ticket fraud is limited to a form of fraud whereby a ticket is ordered on the real name of a person but with a fraudulent credit card. Tickets purchased on the basis of a false identity and a false credit card have never been detected by the police, which does not mean that our attention should be weakened. In reply to your third question, I think it is first and foremost important that Belgium continues to participate in the Global Airline Action Days, which are organised by Europol. It is a good initiative for several reasons. First of all, it makes sense, as far as the problem is concerned. Secondly, we are talking about global cooperation between police, customs, immigration services, airlines and credit card companies. The key to tackling such digital fraud lies at the level of prevention. Thirdly, because it concerns the commercial interests of the private sector, there is also a willingness from that sector to develop preventive tools and detection mechanisms together with the security services. I am in favour of even better cooperation between airlines, credit card publishers, banks and the police, so that better prevention and control of this fraud can be achieved. In the near future, the processing of passenger data, known as PNR, will optimise the detection and control of this form of fraud. In this context, I refer to the cooperation with Mr Bellot, the Minister for Mobility. In view of the modes of operation of suspect persons to hide their identity, the use of transport tickets may indeed pose a number of safety risks to aviation. This is not only for aviation, but also for other forms of mobility such as trains, buses and so on. The Minister for Mobility has committed itself to reducing the risk of such practices by adapting the national civil aviation safety programme and proposing improved working methods. The execution of a conformity check at check-in for a flight is an example of this. The conformity check exists today at the low-cost companies. Moreover, it is very strange that low-cost companies do, unlike other companies. We have now imposed the conformity check in the framework of PNR. To this end, however, the PNR database should first be created, linking the identity to the ticket. Together with colleague Bellot, I am working on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-13-54-commissie-ic722x.u20	Mr Minister, it is true that we are dealing with the combination of fake IDs and counterfeit credit cards. Since IDs go through the fine-meshed PNR network, there is a solution for false IDs. There are also possibilities for credit cards. However, the problem lies in the cooperation of the various partners, not only in the country but also worldwide. It was unknown to me that we recently, this year, participated in such an action day. You're saying those three cases turned out to be successful. Even if they have not led to an interception, they are indeed three cases. That means an orange gay light has to be lit. After all, if three cases are already identified one day, we must also be vigilant on the 364 other days of the year. We must take the appropriate measures and monitor them regularly. In this way, the meshes of the net are becoming ever finer and we will not be able to stop such practices as far as possible, because that will never be possible. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-13-54-commissie-ic722x.u21	Minister, on 12 and 13 May computers were hit by WannaCry ransomware in about 100 countries, at least WannaCry and its various variants. Ransomware is a form of malware that encrypts the data on a system and lets this data back decrypt after paying a ransom, ransom, if that already happens. In the meantime, Ransomware would be the main malware threat in the European Union. The criminals seek their victims from previously unusual organisations such as hospitals, logistics companies and also governments. On 25 July 2016, Europol started cooperation with national police and security companies Intel Security and Kaspersky Lab to fight ransomware. A website has been developed where victims can find decryption tools, among other things. Victims may identify using a special tool with which form of ransomware they are infected. In April 2017, a few weeks before the WannaCry attack, the services concerned joined that international approach. At the press conference on 25 April, Mr Jornt van der Wiel, a Dutchman from Kaspersky Lab, stated that the figures on the number of incidents were in any case an underestimate of the real problem. At the start of the more ransom race, the initiators already announced that there are two golden rules. First, do not pay the ransom you are asked for and, second, report any infection or attempted malware infection to the police. A sample of me last year from a number of local police forces showed that citizens and businesses are reporting very little to the cybercrime police and that the local police zones were not ready to record and follow up on any incident, even though there is an evolution of the FCCU (Federal Computer Crime Unit) to the RCCU (Regional Computer Crime Unit) and now to the LCCU (local CCU). I'll come to my three questions. In the meantime, how did the federal and local police organise themselves to better record and monitor the incidents? How effective and efficient was the system we now have at the WannaCry attack of May 2017, knowing that we were just connected to that "no more ransom"? What first evaluation can be made after a few months of cooperation?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-13-54-commissie-ic722x.u22	Mr Vermeulen, a working group on Ransomware was set up within the Cybercrime expertise group of the College of Attorneys General in which both the police forces concerned participate, both local and federal, as well as the Cybersecurity Belgium Centre (CCB) and the Magistrate. The aim is to obtain, inter alia, through this working group, standardisation in the recording of ransomware offences, especially addressed to local police as first-line police, in order to obtain a maximum of data at the time of the complaint recording, on the basis of a standardised record accompanied by a checklist of questions to be asked. It also aims to improve national cooperation and optimization in the handling of ransomware files. Better imagery, prevention. A circular on this subject was issued and is currently before the College of Attorneys General for validation. With regard to internal police work to improve imaging of the phenomenon, in September 2016, the operandi use ransomware was added to the police database. This can therefore be used at the moment. However, it is too early to publish statistics on this. On 27 April 2017, the National Cyber Emergency Plan was approved by the Council of Ministers. The main objective of the plan is to organise a response structure to cybersecurity crises and incidents requiring coordination and management at national level. How effective was the system? Based on the reports made to CERT.be and the police, a list of victims was compiled. For the whole of Belgium, the Federal Computer Crime Unit (FCCU) obtained information about twenty victims, all shops or self-employed persons. The regional Computer Crime Units (RCCU) attempted to contact these victims. Some of the victims didn't respond. A large part of them had cleaned up the system and had managed to restore the files. Here the RCCU found no more useful information. One victim made a payment. Only a few victims were willing to file a complaint. To date, a number of investigations have not been carried out in any of the victim's samples of the infection, which could possibly have provided a useful lead for the further investigation. Through the television programme Farok on the VTM station as well as through the Federal Police website, an appeal was made to potential victims asking them to report to obtain samples of the malware. This has not so far produced any results for users. Your third question concerns the evaluation. Belgium is in constant contact with Europol and its partners, as are the other Member States. In the meantime, information on how to report ransomware in Belgium has been posted on the platform.......................................................................................................................................................................................... The police and the CCB refer potential victims to that platform for possibly collecting decryption keys. If decryption keys were available in Belgian files, they would also be shared through that platform.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-13-54-commissie-ic722x.u23	Minister, I pointed out that the LCCUs did not ensure that local police areas were ready to record and monitor any incident, especially on the basis of last year's experience. I note, however, that significant efforts have been made since that time to pay more attention to this, such as with the expertise on ransomware, to which you referred, and also with the approval of the national cyber-emergency plan. I understand that this has just started, which makes it too early to obtain statistics. You have already given very detailed figures on the most important attack we experienced in May 2017. However, it is striking that relatively few victims were reported at CERT.be. Among those who have made a report, many reject a further follow-up, which can help solve that problem in the future, for example by submitting a complaint themselves and ensuring that the samples are available quickly. We do not have any useful results, so we cannot currently make a claim. I hope, however, that we do not have to go through too many such things. Of course, we can prevent better than cure, which also requires other things, and that is also the point of the cyber-emergency plan.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-13-54-commissie-ic722x.u24	Minister, the federal police have long supported the fight against illegal transmigration on the territory of Zeebrugge. The security phenomenon is included in the National Security Plan 2016-2019. The riders are an added value for Zeebrugge. Often it is the riders who first catch transmigrants in the difficult-to-access shelters, after which police personnel from the Bruges police zone arrive. Until now, the services have been carried out as one-day services. This means that the federal riders left Brussels and returned to Brussels after their shift, resulting in hugely long working days. From now on, the riders would be made available on the spot for a period of one week to one month. It is reported that the associated storage costs for the horses would be passed on by the federal police to the local police in Bruges. The fact that police zones will now have to pay for the use of police horses on their territory is flagrantly contrary to what was agreed in the reform of the police: purely operational support with specialised means, including horsemen and horses, would never be charged to the police zones. The principle of speciality and subsidiarity means that the federal police have their own tasks, for which they must also have the necessary budgetary resources. In addition to the appalling shortage of personnel in the Maritime Police in Zeebrugge, this is yet another example of how treatment costs of an international issue such as illegal transmigration, and hence federal budget deficits, are passed on to the local level. Minister, is it true that the storage costs for the horses of the federal policemen deployed in Zeebrugge in the fight against illegal transmigration by the federal police will be passed on to the local police in Bruges? If so, how is that consistent with the basic arrangements made at the time of the police reform?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-13-54-commissie-ic722x.u25	The Directorate for Public Security of the Federal Police (DAS) usually provides surveillance services on horseback at the request of local police areas in the context of addressing all possible security phenomena across the territory. This task constitutes a secondary task for DAS after providing the broad resources for the priority tasks such as the management of public spaces, such as demonstrations, football matches and major festivals. The contract based on the residual capacity shall be executed free of charge. Certain police areas want more broad support. They can sign a protocol with the federal police, taking care of staff costs in accordance with the procedure laid down by the GPI 39. At present, four zones have concluded similar protocols. The analysis of applications sometimes attempts to combine the planned services in order to reduce relocation costs by making different services a multi-day assignment. If DAS decides unilaterally, it will bear the costs itself. If a particular customer needs more support than residual capacity without a protocol, then a solution is sought pragmatically. As regards the broad support on the coast for classical summer surveillance, DAS pays for the stables of the horses annually. As regards specific support for the problem of transmigration, DAS paid the storage costs for the year 2016 pending the authorisation to have those costs borne by the interdepartmental commission migration. For the year 2017, the West Coast police zone has allocated a budget for the support on its territory. As far as the Bruges police zone is concerned, the demand for motivated support was not extended. I now turn specifically to your two questions. If there is a demand for daily support due to the Bruges police zone, DAS will, as always, try to provide a pragmatic solution. Secondly, letting the storage costs be paid by the zone is without prejudice to the principle that the support of the federal police is provided free of charge. After all, no costs are charged for the performance and the federal police are not paid for this. It is only the performance of third parties, namely horse storage, for which the zone is always free to make other local arrangements, for example with its own city services or military grounds nearby.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-13-54-commissie-ic722x.u26	Minister, it seems to me to be a very complicated explanation. I understand you don't think the Bruges police zone would have done her job. She could have properly paid the cost to the city. The Bruges police zone and the chief of police in particular assumed that earlier agreements on the payment of the riders.... were previously paid for by the federal police... had not changed. I think I understand, although I may have misunderstood it, that the police area will have to ask new questions to DAS, so that the costs are still paid by DAS. In Bruges, the problem was that the situation suddenly changed and that the college had to decide to pay the storage costs itself, because no settlement had been made. I understand that the message for the Chief Constable in Bruges is that he should address himself to the right authority and that there could still be a refund of the storage costs.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-13-54-commissie-ic722x.u27	There's a protocol, and all the chiefs of police are perfectly aware of it. It says what needs to be done. We can only apply the protocol. That's what we're bound to do.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-13-54-commissie-ic722x.u28	I'll report that to our chief of police and point out to him that, according to your answer, he needs to look at the protocol more closely.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-13-54-commissie-ic722x.u29	Minister, I asked you more than three months ago in the Committee on the Interior about the state of the art of language in the Brussels police. In your reply, you stated that on 4 January 2017 1 772 of the 1 885 Dutch-speaking police officers or 94 % were bilingual and that only 1 654 of the 3 553 French-speaking police officers were Dutch-speaking, which amounts to barely 46.5 % or not even half. In other words, a Dutch-speaking person in Brussels has almost 35% chance, more than one chance in three, of dealing with a Dutch-speaking police officer, while a French-speaking person in Brussels has only a negligible chance of dealing with a police officer who does not know his or her language. You also replied that as Minister for the Interior, you can suspend recruitment to the Brussels police, which are not in conformity with the language law, if the Brussels senior official, who is also responsible for this, does not do so. You also referred to the coordination committee, which was established at two levels in accordance with the cooperation agreement between the Federal Government and the Regions on the organisation of the integrated police. You said that you would convene the coordination committee for the Brussels-Capital Region, to take the necessary steps to solve the problem of bilingualism. Compliance with bilingualism is always set against ensuring safety. Safety must take precedence over the linguistic knowledge requirement. That's understandable. I agree, of course, that safety must be guaranteed. However, one cannot be seen separately from the other. It is quite obvious that it is not a safe situation when monolingual police officers give orders in dangerous situations in a language that some of the citizens do not understand. So safety and bilingualism go hand in hand. We must therefore strive to ensure both. Mr Minister, first of all, how many police appointments have the Brussels high-ranking official been presented for evaluation since she took office? How many of these were in line with the language law? How many of the appointments that were not in line with the language law were suspended by her? Then what happened to the suspended appointments? Have they been confirmed yet? Were they destroyed? Secondly, since when has the recruitments been forwarded to you as Minister of the Interior? How many recruitments have been forwarded to you by now? What were your findings on language issues? How many recruitments have you suspended? What happened to the suspended appointments after that? Finally, has the coordination committee, to which you referred last time, met? When did it meet? What steps were taken at that level to resolve the problem of bilingualism? I'm curious to hear your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-13-54-commissie-ic722x.u30	Mrs. Pas, I sent a letter to the senior official. As soon as I have received the answer, I will provide you with that information. In the meantime, the senior official must only provide me with information on the appointments suspended. However, that is not enough for me. That is why I asked the Chief Constable to inform me of all appointments in the Brussels zones from 1 September. So far, I haven't received anything. Thirdly, the coordination committee will meet this month.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-13-54-commissie-ic722x.u31	I won't wait three months to ask a follow-up question. I hope you get a quick answer. When the coordination committee has met, I will ask you what the outcome of that meeting was. To be continued.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-13-54-commissie-ic722x.u32	Mr Minister, the BE-Alert alert system has been operational since June 2017. Citizens can register with the system and are automatically notified in the event of emergency situations. Currently, 260 of the 589 municipalities have joined this system. In Flanders, two thirds are already connected. One reason for this is that some cities have their own warning system. Another reason is the cost. However, experience has shown that only unique systems are effective. First of all, any citizen can be immediately notified in case of emergency, not just the inhabitants of a city or municipality. In addition, there can be no Babylonian confusion because several systems would exist side by side. Despite the awareness campaign running until the end of September, less than half of the municipalities are connected. Hence my questions. Firstly, what are the costs for cities and municipalities to join the system? Secondly, is connecting the cities and municipalities free of obligation? Thirdly, if yes, who will notify the people who are members of BE-Alert in cities and municipalities that have their own warning system? Fourthly, is it not more advantageous for aid zones to subscribe and use the warning system for all municipalities of the zone?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-13-54-commissie-ic722x.u33	Mr Metsu, since the launch of BE-Alert on 13 June this year, the number of municipalities connected increased to 270 plus the governor's emergency planning services. Every week, there's gonna be congregations. It is absolutely my ambition to convince as many municipalities as possible of the added value of BE-Alert. That is why my services organise additional information sessions in geographical regions where BE-Alert is less successful for the time being. Also, municipalities and provinces that require additional explanations and exchange on good practice can always contact my services to get to the site. Apart from the connection of municipalities, we must not forget that 207 000 citizens have registered with BE-Alert. The awareness campaigns for citizens are ongoing. You have probably also seen all the large posters in the train stations, for example. As regards the costs for cities and municipalities, BE-Alert is offered to each municipality under the same conditions. The costs associated with the connection to BE-Alert are the following amounts: a one-off activation cost per municipality of 100 euros, an annual subscription cost per municipality of 1 100 euros, and the communication cost per unit of 100 euros, a unit is either a minute communication or a text message of 0.10 euros. With Alert SMS, all devices located in a particular region receive a text message via mobile towers without having to register in advance. That service is free of charge. Is connecting free? The authorities responsible for emergency planning and management in Belgium have the responsibility to alert and/or inform citizens in the event of emergencies. That's in a Royal Decree dated 16 February 2006. However, they shall not be specified in the manner in which they are required to do so. From the Crisis Centre, the BE-Alert platform is offered to these authorities without obligation in order to take this responsibility effectively. Who warns the people who are connected to BE-Alert in the municipalities that have their own warning system? The Royal Decree lays down the power to alert and/or inform citizens in the event of emergencies in emergency planning and crisis management. That is the mayor for emergencies at municipal level, the governor for emergencies at provincial level or your servant when the emergency situation is managed at federal level. This alarm can therefore be done via BE-Alert or via its own warning system. What does this mean for the people who are registered for BE-Alert but live in a municipality that is not connected? In the event of a federal emergency, the Minister of the Interior has the power to alert the population. In practice, the Crisis Centre will send out an alert, including via BE-Alert. This message is sent both to residents of the municipalities connected to BE-Alert and to registered residents of municipalities that are not. In the event of a provincial emergency, the governor has the power to alert the population. In practice, an alarm will be sent out via BE-Alert. This message will be sent both to residents of the municipalities that are connected and to registered residents. In the event of a municipal emergency, the mayor has the power to alert the population. That message can be sent via BE-Alert if the municipality is connected to BE-Alert. If that is not the case, the mayor will use his own available alert channels. They may vary from municipality to municipality. That could be police patrols with loudspeakers, door-to-door visitors, social media, sirens, own SMS services and so on. Is it not more advantageous for the aid areas to subscribe? Well, since the Royal Decree clearly places the authority to alert and/or inform citizens in the event of an emergency with the Mayor, the Governor and the Minister of the Interior, the BE-Alert handbook was drawn up in that sense. In this way, it is excluded that non-competent actors will also have access to the alert barrier to alert the population. However, a rescue zone as a type 2 entity can connect to meet its own warning requirements. They cannot, under any circumstances, alert the people from all over the relief zone, as they are not competent to do so. A working model can also be developed whereby the mayor assigns a delegation to the relief zone to alert the population of his municipality. There is therefore no alert phase at the level of the rescue zone, the alarm is only done at the level of the municipality, the province or at the federal level. It can be a practical way of alerting quickly and efficiently, albeit only within the boundaries of the municipality concerned, and not in the entire rescue area. In such a work model, both the higher level entity, e.g. the rescue zone, and the entity, should be connected to the underlying level.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-13-54-commissie-ic722x.u34	Mr Metsu has no further questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-13-54-commissie-ic722x.u35	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Demon's 20108 will be converted into a written question. Mr Gilkinet is not present at the moment for his question No. 20109. I don't know if he's coming. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Nollet's 20112 will be dealt with in the Health Committee. However, as usual, Mr Nollet has several questions in this committee, so I give him the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-13-54-commissie-ic722x.u36	Mr President, we have left for a new season of many questions! We recall that the nuclear gendarmerie had for the first time refused accreditation for the physical protection of Doel's nuclear facilities at Electrabel. He had given him until 1 February to make a series of modifications to his security facilities. But by that date, all these requirements had not yet been met at Doel 1 or Doel 2. As usual, Electrabel minimizes the importance of what was wrong and AFCN refuses to give details. However, it is known that additional physical protection measures, with deadlines for implementation, have been required. During our exchange on May 10, you mentioned an additional three months. Now that the deadline has expired, can you tell me where we are in the file? Could the approval have finally been granted? If not, what is still stuck and what are the sanctions? I would like to take this opportunity to ask you, too, about the approval of the IRE.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-13-54-commissie-ic722x.u37	Mr President, Mr Nollet, in his last assessment, the AFCN did not grant the IRE accreditation for the physical protection system. With regard to the Doel power plant, AFCN granted it approval but excluded Doel 1 and 2 units. The security measures currently in place for these sites were already high, but the AFCN considered that these could be improved. As a result, AFCN justified its decision with these operators and imposed additional physical protection measures with implementation deadlines. In our last discussion, I referred to a possible three-month delay while stressing that it was up to me to verify this information. In fact, the AFCN sent several deadlines to each facility but different deadlines. These deadlines each correspond to different and specific aspects of the physical protection system and may depend on the development of the work requested. It goes without saying that when a time limit is mandatory, its non-compliance may result in the application of the penalties provided for by law. At this stage, approval was not granted for Doel 1 and 2 or for IRE, but the procedure is proceeding in a normal manner. Once AFCN has found that the operator applies all complementary physical protection measures, it will approve the physical protection system and inform the operator of its decision. I can't provide you with any more information on this. You will not escape the fact that these files include highly sensitive documents and are therefore classified. However, we are following these files, and we have time limits, measure by measure, setting the time at which they must agree.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-13-54-commissie-ic722x.u38	Thank you for your answer. I note that neither Doel 1 nor Doel 2 nor IRE in Fleurus have, at this stage, received their approval, but a process is under way. This is finer than simply saying that it is three months for all, since it sets time limits that are measured by measure. I would like to ask you two details, but I don't know if you can give them to me here in session. Firstly, in all these measures, are there any deadlines that have not been met? I don't know them anymore. Before that, I was thinking about the three-month delay, and I thought it was over. For some measures, have some deadlines not been met now been exceeded? Secondly, what is the final deadline for the last of the measures, the one which will expire at the latest? I'll be able to take stock with you at this point.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-13-54-commissie-ic722x.u39	For your first question, I would like to confirm that all measures are taken in time. Regarding the second, I will not improvise, and we will provide you with the final date for each measure.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-13-54-commissie-ic722x.u40	So I'll ask you at that time. Try to distinguish Doel from IRE.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-13-54-commissie-ic722x.u41	I get it. I will distinguish the three sites concerned.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-13-54-commissie-ic722x.u42	Mr. Chair, Mr. Minister, this question relates to the communication of the AFCN. We have already had some discussions on this. Improvements were noted, particularly with regard to response times. We had already discussed the publications on the site. This is another communication problem. Minister, why did AFCN refuse to participate in a debate in the Second Chamber of the Dutch Parliament, in very respectful and democratic forms, on an important cross-border issue? The safety of the Doel and Tihange power stations was to be discussed. We know that there can be consequences across borders. According to your view, does the principle of transparency and participation in public debates stop at the borders in 2017? It was not a trap, but a debate within a defined and democratic framework in Parliament. It is a neighbouring State, a member of the same European Union, which is likely to be affected in the event of damage. My reflection is also in the other direction, concerning Borssele. What does AFCN fear? Why is she not going to defend her point of view, in a debate we cannot more democratic, since taking place in a parliament – even if there are debates, as can happen here?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-13-54-commissie-ic722x.u43	Mr. Nollet, the AFCN takes the principle of transparency very seriously and strives, as far as possible, to provide all the information requested to any person who requests it. Within the framework of this principle of transparency, AFCN exchanges regularly with its Dutch counterpart, ANVS. AFCN experts regularly participate in information sessions and workshops both in our country and in our neighbours. The principle of transparency and participation in public debates therefore does not stop at all at borders. However, it cannot be said that a Belgian institution such as AFCN or I, as Belgian minister, must go to the Parliament of the Netherlands or any other country to explain itself. The opposite will not happen either. So far, I have very good contact with the Dutch minister responsible for nuclear safety. AFCN and I provide in full transparency all the information it needs to answer questions from the Dutch Parliament. I must also say that on several occasions we have received parliamentary delegations from the German Parliament and the Luxembourg Parliament. We welcome them and inform them. But I do not see how it would be useful for us to go to another parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-13-54-commissie-ic722x.u44	Minister, this is useful because it can answer some legitimate questions from parliamentarians from other countries. The proof is that you receive them here! We receive them here but we don't go there to continue the debate! You're saying she's under an obligation to explain herself. It's always a matter of interpretation. There are questions, there is a debate. Are you ordered to explain yourself? Yes, because you are a minister and you have a responsibility in a parliamentary debate. It is not in the sense of a commission of inquiry, it is not that which has been asked. It was a matter of participating in a debate, as we have in the subcommittee on nuclear safety, where we sometimes receive foreign authorities. We have received them for discussions on our plants and they have given their views on the subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-13-54-commissie-ic722x.u45	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-13-54-commissie-ic722x.u46	It's at our request. Let us take the parallel: a commission in the Netherlands asks for AFCN to come. Why wouldn't she come? When we asked for experts from German institutions, they came. They did not refuse to participate in a debate because it is another country! I don't understand! I feel there's a chill and I think it's a real mistake on the part of the AFCN. There may be disagreements on the substance or on the directions to be taken, but I feel this chilliness and I think it does not serve it. KUL teachers conducted a study. The AFCN closed the debate, considering that it should no longer respond. That's not right! This is another problem, but it is all related to the communication of the AFCN. In my view, there is a real need to review the instructions and lines for opening up and participating in debates. It is not in her interest to close – and I will point out every time that she refuses the debate! Minister, I can only invite you to reconsider your position. Finally, I would like to ask you next week about the part that I added today, which was not included in the text of my initial question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-13-54-commissie-ic722x.u47	Minister, now it is not a question of principle but a specific question. Do you confirm that during the stress tests following the Fukushima disaster, the stability of the W building at the Tihange power plant was guaranteed for a 0.3 g SSE (acceleration on the ground)? As is well known, an incident during a grouting jet operation damaged this building. What is the guarantee now offered by this building? Is stability guaranteed for an SES of 0.3 g or has it declined to 0.17 g? I take this question to ask you what the seismic capacity of the BAE building is. Is it 0.3 g; 0.17 g; 0.1 g or any other value?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-13-54-commissie-ic722x.u48	Mr Nollet, several technical points must first be clarified in order to avoid some confusion arising from the nomenclature used in your question. The "seismic resistance" or "seismic capability" can in fact be represented by different parameters. Among these, AFCN and the operator Electrabel refer to the parameters "RLE Seisms" and "SSE Seisms". Let's start with the Safe Shutdown Earthquake (SSE). This is the reference earthquake considered at the time of the design of nuclear power plants. Tihange 1 was built to withstand a Earthquake Basic Design (DBE) with a maximum ground acceleration of 0.1 g. During the first 10-year revision in 1985, it was shown that Tihange 1 could withstand an acceleration of 0.17 g, corresponding to an earthquake with a return period of 10,000 years. Finally, as part of the stress tests, seismic resistance was evaluated for larger earthquakes than design ESSs. The operator retained a 0.3 g Review Level Earthquake (RLE) earthquake in Tihange. As I have already indicated in answer to your question 19852, an acceleration of 0.3 g corresponds to an earthquake with a return period of 25,000 years. This assessment of seismic resistance at this 0.3 g level was conducted using the Seismic Margin Review (SMR) method, based on the probability that SSCs - classified in three categories - can withstand this earthquake and continue to perform their safety function. The three probabilities are as follows: 10 per cent, 50 per cent and 95 per cent. To answer your question, the stability of the W building in Tihange 1 - after the work of comforting the ground under the foundation soles - is now in line with the design and evaluation of the stress tests. In other words, seismic holding is guaranteed for the 0.17 g Safe Shutdown Earthquake (SSE) level. In addition, the probability of maintaining an earthquake at a height of 0.3 g is high, as it is estimated at 95%. For the BAE (Electrical Power Building) building in Tihange 1, seismic holding is guaranteed for an SSE value of 0.17 g. The probability of maintaining a 0.3 g Review Level Earthquake earthquake is average and is estimated to be 50%.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-13-54-commissie-ic722x.u49	Minister, thank you for that clarification. I had only addressed one aspect of the issue, but you explained the relationship between the various aspects. I note that the probability for the BAE is 50%, based on an ELA of 0.3 g, whereas it is 95% for the W building. Is this based on the same measure or has there been a change since the jet grouting operation? This is the heart of my question: has the situation changed positively, has it deteriorated or has it maintained itself?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-13-54-commissie-ic722x.u50	Mr Nollet, I cannot answer for the moment, but I can provide it to you at a later stage.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-13-54-commissie-ic722x.u51	Your answer gives me the impression that the situation has remained the same, but I prefer to make sure.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-13-54-commissie-ic722x.u52	We must see when the tests were carried out. Subsoil degradation has evolved.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-13-54-commissie-ic722x.u53	Of course.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-13-54-commissie-ic722x.u54	I do not know when the measurements were made.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-13-54-commissie-ic722x.u55	So, if you'd like to share the information with me! I would like to repeat to make it clear: what matters to me is whether this 95% to 0.3g, which you have identified in your answer, is inferior, identical or superior to previous measurements...
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-13-54-commissie-ic722x.u56	And the moment of action! Because if it intervenes in a distant period, it doesn't make sense anymore.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-13-54-commissie-ic722x.u57	Recently, I guess! In any case, after the grouting jet! In this regard, Mr President, I would like more information.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-13-54-commissie-ic722x.u58	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Demon's 20123 will be converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-13-54-commissie-ic722x.u59	Mr Minister, I would like to ask you regularly about the agreements in Tournai Il, about their application on the ground and, if necessary, about measures to be put in place to make them more effective. As a reminder, these agreements, ratified a few years ago, allow for better cooperation between the Belgian and French police services at the level of the cross-border zone. This included the establishment of mixed patrols with a right of interpellation on both sides of the border. This measure seems entirely relevant, particularly in the light of the Schengen Convention, which organises the opening of borders in Europe. Nevertheless, on the ground and on the basis of the returns I have from the French and Belgian police services, it seems that some aspects of these agreements could be improved. More specifically, it is still not possible for so-called "classic" patrols that cross the border in pursuit of an individual to question him, which poses obvious operational concerns in the fight against crime such as drug trafficking, burglary, arms trafficking, etc., all of which constitute a large part of the police's interventions at the level of our common border with France. The Franco-Belgian strategic committee has recently decided to set up, by analogy with the system already in force in the Netherlands, a local consultation between neighbours covering the Franco-Belgian border region. In addition, a working group is responsible for determining the provisions of the Tournai II Agreements, for which additional implementation agreements should be provided. Minister, has local consultation already taken place? What information has emerged? What broad conclusions have been drawn from the discussions in the working group since its inception? Have these two think tanks revealed the difficulties faced by police officers in cross-border areas who cannot use their right of "classical" patrol arrest? Have there been any discussions with your French counterpart with a view to providing more opportunities for police officers at the Franco-Belgian border? Will new resources be allocated to finance joint patrols?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-13-54-commissie-ic722x.u60	Mr Delannois, as part of the reorganization of the structure responsible for monitoring the implementation of Franco-Belgian cooperation based on the Tournai II agreement, the Strategic Committee decided, at its last meeting on 12 December 2016, to also set up a local consultation between neighbours. In addition to the Strategic Committee and the Operational Working Group, local consultation forms the third level of this monitoring structure. This operational consultation should cover the entire border region. Its contours and operation through basins are left to the local authorities and services concerned. The December 2016 Strategic Committee entrusted the coordination of the process of defining the local consultation basins and the designations of their representatives to one of the working groups of the operational working group. This process has already been completed for some basins and is still under way for others. It is expected to be completed by 21 September, when the next meeting of the Strategic Committee will take place and where the existing basins and local structures should be formally validated. Once formally validated, the local consultation structures will be able to meet and start their work. Let me turn to your second question. The Sub-Working Group implemented by the Tournai II Agreement was established within the Operational Working Group. This sub-working group met several times. Its mandate covers practical issues that can be resolved at the local level, with a view to achieving concrete and effective implementation of the Tournai II Agreement. General questions of legal interpretation, to be dealt with at the level of central authorities, such as the right of arrest in cases of flagrante delicto or the competence of foreign agents during joint patrols, are not part of his mandate. Two dossiers are being settled within these working groups: on the one hand, facilitation of the right of return and transit and, on the other hand, facilitation of the handover of persons. In this case, it is referred to as removal or translation for the benefit of the judicial authorities. Practical measures are currently under discussion and are expected to be completed soon, with the help of the local consultation basins, once they are operational. With regard to your third question, the difficulties encountered by police officers in cross-border areas still arise today from the absence of a right of arrest for Belgian police officers in foreign territory, have been relayed for many years and have indeed been noted both by the actors on the ground and by the working sub-groups implemented by the Tournai II agreement. We have already had several times the opportunity to return to the origin of this situation, namely a legal problem arising from the French Constitution. Only a modification of this instrument would make it possible to see a solution. Neither the Belgian officials nor the field services have any real control over this persistent blockage. In order to clarify this point, it should be noted that the Tournai II agreement allows Belgian police officers carrying out mixed patrols on French territory to exercise, in the presence of French police officers and under their authority, several prerogatives of public authority. Let's come to your fourth question! The collaboration between our police services and the French police services is a topic regularly discussed in bilateral contacts with the French authorities. I met my French counterpart in June. This was a first step in getting to know each other. We agreed to meet again in the near future. Finally, it was agreed that the relevant integrated police services would make use of the cooperation opportunities provided for in the Tournai II Agreement within the means available to them, both in personnel and in financial terms.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-13-54-commissie-ic722x.u61	Minister, thank you for your very comprehensive answer. Admit that it is a bit of a shame that the right of inquiry is not possible on foreign soil for legal problems! If I can conceive of it, I really think that there is a need for political will on the part of all actors on the ground. It still hurts, when we talk about Europe – which is a great idea – to realize that on the ground there are a series of quiucs. Mr Minister, come and explain to a Tournaisien, who has a common border with Lille, that a policeman who is three meters in the territory opposite cannot question a malfrat, since there are motorways to flee as quickly as possible! Mr. and Mrs. Tout-le-Monde do not understand and will never understand! We must try, whatever the political parties, to tilt the balance so that the citizens' Europe becomes a reality!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-13-54-commissie-ic722x.u62	Minister, recently, divers were required to search for a body in the Scheldt River in my area. The services of the relief zone were requested to carry out this mission. However, the Royal Decree of 10 June 2014 determining the civilian security missions and tasks carried out by the relief and civil protection operational units clearly explains that diving operations and the search for missing persons in support of the police are part of the civil protection missions. Minister, my questions are as follows. Do you confirm that the jurisdiction for diving operations belongs to civil protection? Does Emergency Preparedness have a timing to follow in carrying out this kind of mission? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-13-54-commissie-ic722x.u63	Mr Delannois, the Royal Decree of 10 June 2014 does indeed define the dive missions that go back to both firefighters and civil protection officers. Title III of the Annex specifies that firefighters are competent to rescue people drowning or threatening to throw themselves into the water. Firefighters are therefore competent for emergency rescue missions. Title V of the Annex specifies that civil protection is competent for technical assistance, at the request of the police or judicial authorities, which includes, inter alia, research in the underwater environment. The task of searching for clues or bodies is the responsibility of civil protection. In the course of its missions, civil protection is not subject to minimum response times. However, it should be made clear that its tasks are generally planned in agreement with the requesting authorities. Here, it is not an urgent search for a person. In the case you are referring to, your question does not include much information, and despite our research, unfortunately we cannot explain why civil protection has not intervened. Having not found a call or a request for intervention, we cannot explain the reasons for this non-intervention. If you have more information about the date, place and time, I can still ask for a check and keep you informed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-13-54-commissie-ic722x.u64	Thank you, Minister. Let us be clear: it is not in relation to a very specific fact that I am asking this question, even if it does come from a specific fact. I did not elaborate further on the question, if only in relation to families, etc. This is not really desirable in a question that is open to the public. On the other hand, if I understand correctly, when a person is drowning, it is relatively logical that firefighters, the fastest and most effective rescue services, should be used. So I don't question that. But when the person has died, we know that he has died, that he is at the bottom of the water, normally, if I hear correctly, it is systematically civil protection that intervenes. You say in your answer that no timing should be respected. Very honestly, without wanting to make formalism for pleasure, it might be appropriate to establish one. If a family knows that one of their loved ones is at the bottom of the water, we can't say we're going next week. In this particular case, about which I will give more details, it is 112 that calls the emergency zone to go and find someone who has died and is at the bottom of the water. If you tell me that firefighters have to do this, I can assure you that next week, I'm talking about funding.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-13-54-commissie-ic722x.u65	To be clear, in this specific case, this is part of the judicial investigation. So it's planned. Which doesn't mean it'll be done in a month. But an entire judicial police and justice team must also be set up. They should normally contact civil protection. It's just a matter of hours.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-13-54-commissie-ic722x.u66	For the rest, I will make some clarifications. I didn't want to customize the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-13-54-commissie-ic722x.u67	Mrs. Ben Hamou is sorry.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-13-54-commissie-ic722x.u68	Mr Minister, one cannot open the newspaper without again finding an article on the lack of personnel in the security corps or on yet another condition in the transfer or, rather, the non-transfer of prisoners to the court. This should be resolved with the establishment of the SGI, the Monitoring and Protection Directorate, which should normally consist of 1 660 men. The establishment of the SAB was decided in the so-called Christmas Agreement of 22 December 2015 and should have been operational in spring 2017. At present we are already in the autumn of 2017. Mr President, first of all, what progress has been made with the establishment of the SAB? Secondly, when can the SAB be used to transfer prisoners to and from the courts?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-13-54-commissie-ic722x.u69	Mrs Lambrecht, autumn starts on 21 September. So we are not yet in the autumn. In any case, I have always stated that the DAB would be replaced in the period 2016-2017-2018. After one and a half years of intensive preparatory work in close consultation with all the partners involved, such as the Justice, Defence and local police, we come to the end of the project phase and the effective establishment of the SGI is in the starting blocks. The draft law will soon be presented in committee and will be discussed further there. This will take place on 20 September 2017. In the meantime, the operational placement of the new management is under way. The infrastructure and workshops, the purchase of equipment and the initial recruitment of staff are ongoing. The current situation is the result of one and a half years of preparatory work by the federal police with the various partners involved in the project, including the local police and the security corps. However, it is also the result of cooperation with all my colleagues from the government. In reply to your second question, I would like to point out that, taking into account the parliamentary work to approve the draft law and the recruitment deadlines, the initial training of the security officers is scheduled for early March 2018. The first operational commitment is planned for early September 2018. Given the scale and complexity of setting up such management, a phased roll-out has been developed. The security of the nuclear sites and of the national airport in Brussels as well as part of the performance of the tasks of the police of courts and courts are a priority. In this way, local police forces will be gradually and phased out of the shipments. However, the intention is to transfer the full capacity of the security corps to the new SGB by 1 January 2019. Transferring capacity alone is not enough. After all, the capacity of the security corps is inadequate. That's why the local police had to jump in. If we transfer the capacity of the security corps, at the same time additional capacity will be recruited to relieve local police from these tasks. Of course, the continuity of the transfer of detainees will never be compromised, as this is an existing task of the Justice Security Corps and of the local police. However, I am very clear about this: once the SAB has been fully deployed, this task will eventually be completely removed from the local police. For the whole country, this means savings of 500 FTEs in local police. Corpses in places where there is a court or prison will benefit, of course not other corps. For the whole country it is about 500 FTEs less for the local police.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-13-54-commissie-ic722x.u70	Minister, you bring good news, so I am satisfied. One thing is still unclear. I believe I understand that only part of the mission, namely the transfer to courts and courts, will be transferred, while you say in your reply that this task will be fully transferred. I don't quite understand.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-13-54-commissie-ic722x.u71	This is progressing in stages. Priority will be given to the mission related to the nuclear sites, the airport and that of part of the security corps. In the next phase, the rest of the security force will come in. It's very clear: it's about the whole security force. We work in two stages, because I have to supplement the capacity to relieve the burden on local police.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-13-54-commissie-ic722x.u72	Mr. President, Minister, a new incident occurred at one of our nuclear power plants on August 20th. It's this time about Doel 4. Minister, what are the causes and consequences of this incident? What has been done to ensure that this incident does not happen again?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-13-54-commissie-ic722x.u73	Mr Nollet, the plant was shut down on 20 August following a periodic test to monitor the proper functioning of the plant's safety systems. At the end of the test, a simulated signal remained blocked and caused, after the test, the closure of the steam valves. This resulted in the automatic shutdown of the plant in accordance with the security procedures. It was classified as 0 on the INES scale and did not have any consequences for workers, the environment or the safety and security of the plant. The electronic equipment that was the cause of the incident was repaired. In addition, actions to be taken in case of a blocked signal will be re-examined.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-13-54-commissie-ic722x.u74	Did this go well outside the nuclear side?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-13-54-commissie-ic722x.u75	Yes.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-13-54-commissie-ic722x.u76	All right.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-13-54-commissie-ic722x.u77	Minister, I have already asked you many times about the anomalies discovered on equipment from nuclear power plants manufactured in Creusot. We learned at the end of August that EDF had discovered new anomalies on nuclear equipment manufactured at Creusot. This case, whose perimeter seemed to be under control, is becoming increasingly important. Minister, what about the equipment at our own nuclear power plants? When did AFCN contact its French counterpart following the disclosure of this new information? Do you have all the guarantees you need to say that no part of our power plants is covered by these new discoveries? Could any further information come from France or can you say that this time, the perimeter of the anomalies is clearly and definitively identified?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-13-54-commissie-ic722x.u78	Mr Nollet, it seems important to repeat the context of this case, as I did in my answer to question No 13237. The Autorité de sûreté française, the ASN, revealed in May 2016 that Areva had informed him of irregularities concerning several manufacturing records of forged components manufactured in its Creusot Forge plant for the nuclear industry. The analyses showed that approximately 400 forged component manufacturing records were involved and contained information not passed on to customers about irregularities in the manufacturing process. These irregularities were highlighted by files with double bars, having given the problem the name of "barred folders". Of these 400 files, only one concerned components of Belgian nuclear power plants, specifically five components of the Tihange 2 reactor tank. After analysis, ENGIE Electrabel and the Safety Authority concluded that the irregularity in question was minor and had no impact on the properties of the component. The tests carried out on these parts before they were put into service had, at the time, produced results in accordance with the technical requirements. In addition to the analysis of these 400 files, Areva has launched a comprehensive analysis campaign of all the other dossiers for the manufacture of components forged for the nuclear industry by the Creusot Forge plant. This analysis in different stages is still under way. For Belgium, after a digitisation stage of all the documents now completed, Areva is finalizing their in-depth rereading and has begun the analysis of the detected deviations. The completion of this analysis is not expected until the end of 2018. During the re-reading of these unbarred files, new findings of irregularities were made in France. It appears that there are also irregularities in other files. For Belgium, no anomalies affecting the safety of a component have yet been reported to AFCN. But the investigation will continue until the end of 2018. Until the analysis process is complete, it is not possible to provide a relevant numerical answer on the scope of the file. As part of this dossier, the ASN requested, at the end of August 2017, that EDF transmit the results of the analyses carried out by Areva for all the forged components of its nuclear fleet over the next two years. A similar request was sent to Electrabel as early as March 2017. AFCN has regular contacts with ASN, Engie Electrabel and, indirectly, Areva in this area. Audits are carried out very regularly by Engie Electrabel at Areva for the follow-up of the case. The AFCN is very attentive and has carried out several inspections in France on the management by Electrabel of this complicated file.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-13-54-commissie-ic722x.u79	Minister, I understand your caution and the attention that the AFCN is giving to this issue that you have rightly described as "complicated". It was thought to be at the end of the bad surprises and to be able to say that, as far as Belgium is concerned, only one piece posed a minor problem. But the analysis reveals that other concerns may arise. You say the analysis will probably last until the end of 2018. I'm not gonna give up all this time to interview you again. The situation will be reviewed on a regular basis. I am sure that if a major problem were to occur, the NWPA would be proactive in communicating. My problem is that we are faced with an actor who has lived in lies and falsification for a long time without the control services being aware of it. Of course, this is happening in France, but indirectly, Belgium is affected, because we use equipment that was made in France. Nevertheless, for the nuclear world, which has very often shown itself to be the safest, the most guaranteed, the most controlled, etc., the demonstration is made in this particular case that elements have escaped radars by posing real problems. Indeed, we have worked for years with a lie and we only discover the extent of it. I understand your caution.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-13-54-commissie-ic722x.u80	Mr Minister, at the outset, I should like to inform you that I read your exchange last July with Mr Calomne. However, I have maintained my question, as I would like more details. Many recent experiences by civil registrars in our municipalities, but especially by homosexual parents, show that the computer system that manages the registration of parents' names on the identity card of children under the age of 12 does not allow for the easy registration of same-sex parents. Indeed, this rather old software does not allow a second woman to be registered as a co-parent of the child in question if a woman is already mentioned as a mother. The same reasoning applies, of course, to male couples. The computer programme is not designed to accept two national register numbers representing the same sex (either even or odd). It seems that manual management would ultimately make this registration possible, but all municipal staff clearly did not acquire this competence. I ask you this question because someone taught me that such a case had occurred in Mons. In any case, the result is extremely delicate and unpleasant situations for the people concerned – which the public authorities must of course avoid. Hence, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, my two questions. Does the Inland FPS envisage a replacement or updating of the software for the registration of children in the municipalities of Belgium? If so, within what time frame? Then, pending this possible computer development, do you envisage sending out a circular to specify the technical arrangements to be followed to register the names of same-sex parents? Apparently, there is one, but it remains largely unknown to the services concerned.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-13-54-commissie-ic722x.u81	Mr Hellings, in view of the various and complex rules of filiation contained in the Civil Code, the municipal official may have to adapt the information relating to one of the parents on the basis of the information on filiation contained in the child's file – prepared by the Population Service. This possible manual modification of the heading "parents" for the manufacture of a Kids-ID does not concern exclusively homosexual partners, but is also possible for other household compositions where the parents are not the brooders – mother and father. The Belpic system, which is used by each municipality to manufacture the Kids-ID and other Belgian identity cards, has already existed for many years and expressly provides for this manual adaptation by the municipal official. The officers were informed of this through instruction and training. At the same time, their attention was also drawn to the possibility of asking parents for additional information – with regard to their mention on the Kids-ID – when they came to the counter. Officials may also contact regional delegates in the national registry for specific cases. Therefore, there is no need to take additional measures or adapt the Belpic system for Kids-ID. The information on filiation, identified by data 110 in the national register, essentially contains the identity of the parents and the form of such filiation under a specific code. This subject is covered by the provisions of Titles VII and VIII of the Civil Code. Information on filiation is constantly evolving in line with the evolution of the provisions in the Civil Code and the new forms of filiation. For example, new specific codes relating to the co-parent were created under the information "filiation" TI 110, following the entry into force on 1 January 2015 of the Act of 5 May 2014 establishing the parent's parentage. This is the Ministerial Order of 7 July 2014. It is therefore possible to use the child's Kids-ID, under the name "parents", the first and last names of the two mothers.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-13-54-commissie-ic722x.u82	Minister, I have no doubt of your good faith or that of the Internal FPS in this matter. The fact that today, in the case of a traditional domestic adoption, manipulations are to be made because the two names do not appear in the birth certificate of the child, and that there is no automaticity between the act of adoption and the Kids-ID, is quite normal. But the cases that have been reported to me concerned two mothers who are affected by the law on co-parents that you have just mentioned. We decided, at the time, not to call them co-mothers. It was a good idea. This is an amendment that is due to the Senate; I still remember. In this case, these two married women appeared as such in the civil register. It is known that when two persons are married, the children of this marriage are automatically recognized by both parents. Despite the fact that this person was married, and had conceived this child as part of his married couple, there was a bug. The world has changed and family law has evolved. Therefore, what matters, and it is also in the interest of asking this question, is to flatten the various procedures under way today for the registration of children in the commune. These situations should be avoided, which are sometimes unpleasant. However, I repeat that I do not think this is a deliberate action by your administration, let alone by yourself. Let's try to see what can be done to make life easier for these parents who are, in fact, parents like all the others.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-13-54-commissie-ic722x.u83	Mr President, Minister, a nuclear exercise took place on November 29, 2016 in Tihange. I would like to know whether and how the local population was involved in practice. If that was not the case, I would like to know when the last exercise involved a significant proportion of the local population. If this has not been the case, I would also like you to be able to guarantee that a significant proportion of the population will be involved in the following exercise in particular in terms of the full-scale exercise of evacuation of local populations. Furthermore, it would appear that the exercise has updated a major concern for the absence of Wi-Fi and even ASTRID networks. Do you confirm that? How is that possible?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-13-54-commissie-ic722x.u84	Mr Nollet, as regards the way in which the local population was involved, a panel of some 20 inhabitants of the city of Huy was set up and involved in practice. The latter received several text messages from the authorities during the exercise to inform them of the fictitious situation and of the measures to be taken: sheltering, restricting the food chain and taking iodine tablets. These texts also invited them to follow the media and social media and to learn more about the website www.nuclearrisks.be They were then asked to complete an evaluation questionnaire on the clarity and effectiveness of the messages received and their perception of the different information. The participation of the population is an important point in the organization of nuclear exercises and we are thinking with the Crisis Centre about how best to involve them more in future exercises. The practical arrangements for a comprehensive exercise are defined by the Crisis Centre in consultation with all public and private actors involved in the nuclear emergency plan according to a specific methodology. The objectives are set by the Steering Committee in consultation with the various partners and formalized in an exercise agreement. The choices are made by a set of partners and must take into account a range of constraints and the capabilities available to test these aspects. As indicated in the answer to your parliamentary question No. 10500 of 8 April 2016, Doel's 2009 exercise has indeed shown that organising an evacuation out of real crisis situations does not improvise and calls for a huge workload in terms of preparation, information, training and communication and specific measures for the population. Consideration should also be given to monitoring of evacuees such as registration, triage and possible decontamination. Moreover, in the margins of the financial period, the various units deployed must continue to carry out their day-to-day missions while taking into account certain priorities. It goes without saying that, in times of crisis, the mechanisms will focus on the issue of the nuclear emergency and assistance to the population. I come to your second question: the lack of a wi-fi network, etc. As regards the problems of the ASTRID network, during the exercise in Tihange, this remark was only raised at the PC-Ops level. There are also no ASTRID network problems in the Tihange nuclear power plant region or elsewhere in the province of Liège. One of the objectives of the exercise was to test the location of the PC-Ops in the immediate vicinity of the provincial coordinating committee, either in a bunker located at the Crisnée operational unit, and more specifically to test the flow of information between these two entities. With regard to the ASTRID liaison, Crisnée's civil protection is in a position to put in place mechanisms to strengthen this link with the assistance of the TASTeam (technical assistance support team) in the event of a crisis, which was not put in place at the beginning of the exercise since this was not one of the objectives. In the event of an emergency, the question will not arise because in this case, the TASTeam will be deployed immediately, and the ASTRID link will cover fully the buildings of the Crisnea operational unit. In addition, ASTRID is available 24 hours a day by the governors via the general management of the Crisis Centre in order to strengthen the ASTRID link in case of need through the provision of a mobile mast. The call will be made ex officio to ASTRID if necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-13-54-commissie-ic722x.u85	As for the second part of your answer, you do not say a word about the wi-fi network. You're talking about the ASTRID network, which would have actually had a problem in Crisnée, at the PC-Ops center, not at the power plant. It's already special in itself that it doesn't work during an exercise, but we think it's not serious in itself because in times of crisis, we can automatically mobilise the necessary resources. But you don't answer on the wi-fi part. For the rest of your answer, I really regret that while in 2009 it was found that the exercise of evacuation of the local populations of life-size is necessary, although difficult to organize, this exercise is absolutely necessary. Look at what is happening right now in the United States, an organized country, with regard to the evacuation of populations potentially affected by the hurricane. Such a procedure must be regularly tested in order to be effective, and it can only be tested in real-life situations. In Belgium, in 2009, we said that it would be worthwhile, despite the difficulties, to carry out such a test. We still haven't realized it. I can only command you to carry out, in Doel and Tihange, a life-size exercise to evacuate local populations; to see what it gives to draw all the lessons from it. We have recently received some reflections from the Netherlands – you will tell me that it is another country, but it is still a neighbouring country – on border crossings, particularly in Eijsden, and the problems that might arise for people who would be fleeing in a disorganised way a possible nuclear disaster in Belgium. I assume you've seen the articles recently published in the Dutch press, which were relayed by the Belga agency. All of this really prompts me to reiterate my request. Take the initiative to organize, by the Crisis Centre in particular, the full-scale exercise of evacuation of local populations. The fact that 20 citizens were involved to see if they received a text message and if they had their iodine pellets does not allow us to say, today, that the local populations are involved in exercises, as should be done to evacuate the populations.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-13-54-commissie-ic722x.u86	Question No 20218 by Mrs Nawal Ben Hamou is postponed. Joined Questions No 20220 by Mr Eric Thiébaut, No 20307 by Mr Gautier Calomne and No 20355 by Mr Gilles Vanden Burre are postponed. Debates of the European Parliament Question No 20222, by Mr Thiébaut Question No 202, by Mrs Dumery Mr Frédéric.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-13-54-commissie-ic722x.u87	Mr President, Deputy Prime Minister, on the occasion of a recent press interview, you said that the fight against absenteeism in the police forces should be one of the priority projects of the re-entry. I quote: "While the rate of absenteeism is 6 per cent among other public servants, it is 8 per cent within the integrated police force, or about 4,000 out of a total of 50,000 police officers. If we could lower this level of absence to reach the average level of the entire administration, it would be a huge budget and capacity that would be released." To the extent that this objective is expected to be achieved, an envelope of EUR 17 million could be saved and more agents could be put at the heart of the field arrangements. Your observation is not irrelevant, but it is also true that police officers sometimes experience very difficult realities, especially when they are in operation and that this can have a direct influence on the statistical record mentioned. Deputy Prime Minister, what is the timetable for the reflection, consultation and adoption of your plan? What measures do you prefer to encourage the return and retention of law enforcement personnel? Finally, what is the state of the dialogue on this issue with the trade unions?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-13-54-commissie-ic722x.u88	Mr President, Minister, according to the article I read on RTL.be, you want to fight police absenteeism, which is very expensive for the state. You say in particular that "if we could lower this level of absence to reach the average level of the entire administration, it would be a huge budget and capacity that would be released." The absenteeism rate for staff is currently 8 per cent, compared with 6 per cent for other staff. The integrated police force in our country has 50,000 officers, 4,000 of whom are currently ill. In March of this year, you launched an action plan called "Back to Work", which is currently under negotiation. According to figures in the press, the reduction of police absenteeism by 1% would save more than 250 million euros, a substantial amount for an already tight budget. Nevertheless, this disturbing state of affairs has very specific causes. According to Stéphane Deldicque, Permanent Secretary CSC Police, "the lack of means justifies physical fatigue, mental fatigue, which causes more and more people to become ill. And there, the figures are indeed quite correct. So, you have to work on the causes and avoid the witch hunt." Minister, do you confirm these worrying figures regarding police officers' absenteeism? If so, do you share the CSC's analysis of the causes that could explain this reality? Can you specify, depending on your area of competence, what concrete measures you may consider necessary to resolve the problem of police absenteeism? Has there already been an evaluation of this action plan? If so, what are the results? If not, why? Which police areas are affected by this problem? What is the percentage of absenteeism among police personnel? How has this figure evolved since 2014 to the present? How can these figures and developments be explained and interpreted?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-13-54-commissie-ic722x.u89	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I shall first answer Mr Kir's questions. The overall figure of police absenteeism is in fact relatively high, but for the time being does not give any indication of its causes. The identification of its causes will form part of the "Absenteeism" action plan currently taking shape within the integrated police force. It is an action plan in which trade unions are full partners and actively collaborate. The current rate of absenteeism includes both short-term and long-term absences. It also covers the absences of all staff, both from the operational framework and from the administrative and logistical framework, and covers all absences on grounds of health, regardless of their causes (illness, accident at work, temporary pension). It is obvious that each of these absences must be viewed in its context and considered in terms of its impact. The following are the figures and percentages of absenteeism to the federal and local police for the years 2014 to 2017. For the integrated police, this is a figure of 8% (rounded up). Since 2014, we have seen a slight increase. For the Federal Police: in 2014, 7.2%; in 2015, 7.8%; in 2016, 8.1%; and in 2017, 7.99%. For local police: in 2014, 7.42 %; in 2015, 7.92 %; in 2016, 8.17 % and in 2017, 8.2 %. Due to the way in which absences for health reasons can be treated and encoded, it is not currently possible to provide you with a breakdown by police area. However, federal police computer scientists are considering how to deal with this encoding problem. In the action plan referred to here, a more in-depth study and monitoring of police absenteeism is planned in the short term. The first detailed results of this monitoring are expected in April or May 2018. The unions also proposed their collaboration in this in-depth investigation of the causes of absenteeism. The entire integrated police force is therefore involved in the project in order to manage the problem in a comprehensive manner. Meanwhile, the plan is in the midst of reflection and consultation with the relevant partners (federal police, local police, trade unions and internal prevention services). This phase should lead to the approval of an action plan by the end of October. The emphasis is, first, on a chain-based approach: each element involved takes an active part and must assume its responsibilities. Secondly, the pursuit of a two-way, constructive and effective policy in the field of absenteeism, in particular with a view to achieving optimal reintegration of staff and monitoring of possible abuses. Thirdly, a modern and flexible HRM approach, and fourthly, the integral and integrated objective in which the comprehensive approach aims at both integrated policing and the different forms of absenteeism, as well as their specific possible approach. The period for the overall maturity of the programme is three years. However, many measures have already been envisaged in the short term, such as the unambiguous definition within the integrated police of absenteeism, the monitoring and benchmarking of figures, the reorientation of the medical service according to a two-pronged policy, as well as the optimisation of a number of existing institutions, commissions and practices in the workplace, and the establishment of local multidisciplinary consultations on reintegration. As you know, in our plan for the key tasks, we planned, at some point, to conduct an investigation into the presence of the medical service in the police. The question of keeping it was raised. It was during this survey that I noted this increase in absenteeism figures. At that time, I thought it was smarter to keep this medical service, but to direct it towards the fight against high absenteeism. To be very clear, it is not a matter of making the police guilty. I know that, given their workload and the circumstances in which they have to deal with it, this high level of absenteeism can be explained, even if I am not going to say that it is normal. But we have to work on it. So far, we have never worked on the well-being of agents. This medical service fulfils a second, complementary mission of promoting well-being with a view to reducing absenteeism. Mr Calomne, as mentioned above, action should take place in a comprehensive, firm and coherent constructive approach to identifying abuses. In other words, it is not a fight against absenteeism, but a policy aimed at working in an integrated way on this problem, but also on well-being and integration. Each link in the chain must be accountable, but it is important to take into account the variety of possible forms of absenteeism and the specific nature of the staff and how they operate. A first general assembly of the federal police, the CPPL (Permanent Commission of the Local Police) and the trade unions was held on 22 August. As a result, on the basis of proposals, suggestions and comments, a programme proposal was developed. The aim is to ensure that the various projects – under the "Absenteeism" programme with the same partners – form a joint action plan to be submitted to the Integrated Police Coordination Committee. This programme will then be evaluated every four months by the same partners – including trade union organisations – who will measure its progress and consider possible adjustment.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-13-54-commissie-ic722x.u90	Minister, thank you for your answer. As you said, it is not a matter of making the agents guilty – on the contrary. We must work on the issue of absenteeism. I appreciate the report you have drawn up with well-being at work. Indeed, these two issues are related. The best way to reduce absenteeism is to create conditions for maximum well-being at work. That said, the figures are worrying, as we see an annual increase in the rate of absenteeism – both within the federal and local police forces. It was therefore time to start work on this project in consultation with the agents and their union representatives. Therefore, I welcome the meetings that have taken place and the ongoing evaluation procedures, which will include trade unions. It seems to me essential that they be fully associated with it.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-13-54-commissie-ic722x.u91	Minister, thank you for your answers. What is positive is the plan being drawn up, which is being discussed with all stakeholders and the announcement that the plan should be adopted by October. I'm sure I'll have a chance to get back there then. On the other hand, I quickly heard you say that there was no indication of the causes of absenteeism. Is that to say that the study has not been carried out and that no cause is now proven? Nevertheless, in view of the increasing numbers, as Mr Calomne pointed out, the situation is extremely worrying, the rate of absenteeism is increasing considerably and it may be linked to the security situation in our country, the attacks in Paris and then those in Brussels, as the highlight of this absenteeism is in 2016, the year of 22 March. Another year that also has an important peak is that of 2015 which also sees a staggering increase in absenteeism. For the months of 2017 that you reported in the monitoring, the rate of absenteeism remains considerable. Without deflowering the work that will be done by the services, it is obvious that there is a link between the context of terrorism and absenteeism. It is therefore important to work on causes to improve working conditions and well-being. But this is the responsibility of the technicians who are working on the subject and who you will certainly take back in the plan. Objectively, in reading the figures, the link between the context of terrorism and absenteeism is proven.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-13-54-commissie-ic722x.u92	Mr. Kir, I share your analysis. In 2016, we had to deal with four crises simultaneously: the terrorist crisis that you just mentioned, the strikes in the prisons that mobilized many police officers, the asylum and immigration crisis and the dismantling of the camps in Calais for which I had to strengthen the police presence on the ground. Four crises to be managed with a defined capacity. The workload is enormous for this organization. It is clear that the reason for the increase in absenteeism lies in part there. I fully share this analysis. That's why we're recruiting. But, you know as I do, between when the decision to recruit is made and when the police arrive on the ground, it's between a year and a year and a half ago. We're in this period. Well-trained officers leave school. Training is currently under way. We will strengthen the organization as we move forward. Let's be honest, that's one of the reasons. We're working on it.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-13-54-commissie-ic722x.u93	Mr President, Deputy Prime Minister, according to the press, a stock of very varied and dangerous chemicals would accumulate on the site of the former federal police printing house, located in Ixelles, Brussels. When asked by the press, a trade union delegate said: "This is a disaster for the environment. It has been at least four months since the chemical problem in this case was denounced." He was also concerned about the negative impact of the September rains on the situation, given the uncovered or capped cans. For its part, a representative of the federal police indicated that chemicals are not intended to remain in the open air and that they will soon be evacuated. Deputy Prime Minister, according to the information in your possession, what is the status of the situation on the site of the former printing house? What measures have been taken to avoid environmental pollution and negative impact, and for police officers and residents? How do you explain that containers of dangerous products were allowed to remain open for such a long period of time? What is the planned schedule for the disposal of chemicals?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-13-54-commissie-ic722x.u94	Mr. Calomne, the site of the former federal police printing house is located in the Crown complex on Fritz Toussaint Street in Ixelles. The complex is almost emptied of its occupants, only about fifty staff members still work there but in an isolated area. Residual waste from printing (ink and dyes) has been stored in airtight containers located outside buildings, either on pallets or on containers or on the ground. The nature of the flooring (paved) and the basement (no sand) at this location makes possible any pollution via possible infiltrations. On 14 August, an on-site visit by the Labour Inspectorate and the Internal Service for Prevention and Protection at Work of the Federal Police confirmed that there was no immediate danger for the employees still present and for the surrounding population. On this occasion, no product spills or visible contamination or staining of the soil at the site of storage were observed. However, as an additional precautionary measure, all products were placed in hermetically sealed containers. The products in question had been stored outside the buildings in order to facilitate their evacuation by a specialized firm. The evacuation was delayed due to a problem in the procurement procedure. All waste was removed on 4 September 2017 by a specialized firm.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-13-54-commissie-ic722x.u95	Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, I thank you for your detailed answers that will reassure a number of people who were concerned about what they had read in the press on this subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-13-54-commissie-ic722x.u96	Minister, at the end of July, the government gave the green light to two royal decisions on the reform of civil protection, closing four of the six barracks. Brussels called for a conflict of interest on this point, as the disappearance of the barracks in Liedekerke, according to the Brussels government, is detrimental to the Region. The Consultative Committee met on 6 September. I would like to receive an answer to the following questions. Firstly, what are the conclusions of the meeting of the Consultative Committee on 6 September? Secondly, have the royal decisions on closure and clustering already been signed? Thirdly, was the staff of the barracks concerned already informed about the transitional period for the closure of the barracks, about job opportunities in other services and about the pension scheme, for example the agreement that members of the Civil Protection can take leave prior to retirement? Fourthly and finally, when will the Civil Protection Service 112 stop in the fire zone Liedekerke-Aalst-Ninove-Ternat? When will the work be transferred? How will they be taken in?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-13-54-commissie-ic722x.u97	Mr Top, the Consultative Committee has taken note of the concerns of the Brussels-Capital Region that the reorganisation of civil protection would have a detrimental effect on the security of the Brussels population. The Consultative Committee has decided to set up a task force to examine the possible consequences for the Brussels-Capital Region and, where appropriate, to determine a phase-out to settle the consequences in an orderly manner, taking into account the new organisation of civil protection, on the one hand, and the safety of the inhabitants, on the other. Such a task force is not unique. There is not only one for the Brussels-Capital Region, but for all areas where civil protection will disappear. The royal decrees have been sent for advice to the Council of State and have not yet been signed. The opinion for the royal decision on the division of labour is already back. Before that royal decree, there were only formal observations. That can be adjusted and then I can sign it. The other royal decree has not yet returned from the Council of State. The staff of the units shall be accompanied individually by the P&O department of the Civilian Security Executive Board. In addition, task forces are being set up to regulate the phasing out and the transitional period in the locations where barracks will be closed. Finally, KB's draft on the transitional provisions has been discussed several times at technical meetings with the syndicates. Since the trade-union negotiations are still ongoing, my services are careful about communication, particularly with regard to the pension scheme. As far as the 112 is concerned, a number of terms are likely to be confused. Civil Protection doesn't provide service 112. The 112 service for the province of Flemish Brabant is located in Leuven and that for East Flanders in Ghent. Presumably you're referring to the fact that Liedekerke's operational unit is responsible for the function of dispatch for the fire stations of Aalst, Ninove and Ternat. This task will have to be taken over by the zonal control centres of the zones concerned. As regards the emergency medical aid service, the first task force Liedekerke confirmed that Civil Protection will carry out that task until 1 January 2019. We're talking about the ambulances now. However, in order to prevent the transition and thus provide ground experience to the surrounding areas that will take over the assignment, it was offered to act with mixed teams in the coming months, as a kind of training. From 1 January 2019, the service will be fully provided by other services, presumably by the fire department. Based on the risk analysis of the FPS Public Health, it will be considered which posts should be strengthened or established for this purpose. The fact is that the planned removal from the barracks of Lennik at the end of 2018 to Eizeringen would contribute positively to the coverage of Liedekerke and its surroundings. Driving with the ambulance will therefore no longer be a task of Civil Protection, but after the study of the FPS Public Health may eventually end up in the fire department area, with the corresponding funding.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-13-54-commissie-ic722x.u98	Mr. Secretary, I'm waiting for the Royal Decree-Laws. I can understand the fact that there are certain issues which still need to be discussed with the syndicates and that there is therefore a need for caution. I would also like to thank you for clarifying the difference between the dispatcher and the 112 service. I have one more question. You have stated that task forces have also been set up for the other posts and are at work. Is there a timing set? When will the final results be known?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-13-54-commissie-ic722x.u99	For me, timing is subordinate to quality. It is up to the task forces to say what is needed for the zones to perform certain transferred tasks correctly. That's much more important than timing. I will, in a manner of speaking, not delete a task in civil protection if it cannot be taken over. That's what it's about. The task force must now determine the tasks to be transferred and set a timetable against them. At the moment the task forces have just started. I do not have an answer to that. I would simply like to say in principle that we must first consider whether something can be transferred and then transfer it. That makes a lot of sense.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-13-54-commissie-ic722x.u100	I agree with your answer that quality preys on speed. However, I would urge that progress be made on the dossier, given that there remains a great deal of uncertainty for staff in certain areas and posts, which creates fear and even dissatisfaction among staff. I fully understand your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-13-54-commissie-ic722x.u101	In those task forces, the staff will be around the table.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-13-54-commissie-ic722x.u102	Thank you for the answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-13-54-commissie-ic722x.u103	Mr. Chair, Minister, recent news shows that major disasters can occur without notice. In Portugal, no less than 2,400 firefighters were mobilised, while in North Kensington, the Grenfell Tower fire required significant resources. There are also residential towers of dozens of floors that can quickly turn into "infernal towers" in the event of a disaster. Mr Minister, do we in Belgium have the capacity to mobilise firefighters enough to deal with large-scale fires as the deployment of 2,400 firefighters in Portugal required? In the example of the Grenfell Tower fire, do we have the right means and equipment to contain fires in high 24 storey buildings, as was the case in North Kensington? When building similar towers, would it not be possible to require proponents to participate in a fund to meet the requirements of potential incidents of this magnitude?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-13-54-commissie-ic722x.u104	Mr Flahaux, your last question is rather a matter for the Regions. As far as forest fires are concerned, the provinces of Liège and Antwerp, as well as other rescue areas likely to be affected by forest fires, have special plans for interventions in these types of fires. Regular exercises are organized to improve their management. In parentheses, the cases of Antwerp and Liège are different because in Antwerp it is rather a heather. The plans resume the capabilities required by fire departments to deal with fires of this type. We can say today that we have the ability to mobilize through the emergency zones and civil protection which have the specific equipment needed for fires as we usually encounter them in our country. In addition, emergency zones and civil protection can be supported by the Federal Police and Defence in the fight against forest fires. Finally, in an extraordinary situation where resources are insufficient, we can still benefit from the assistance provided by the European Civil Protection Mechanism. Most of the country's major cities have special plans to prevent and combat fires in high-rise buildings. These plans contain procedures that are integrated into the training of firefighters in these areas. In addition, regular exercises are organized. It should also be noted that some areas require specific preventive measures by the project author for high-rise buildings under construction. For example, equipment that allows for adequate pressure and water flow in the last floors. As far as equipment is concerned, some emergency areas have specific equipment, but this is not systematic. This depends on their risk analysis. Indeed, some areas consider that the equipment available is sufficient for this type of intervention. It should also be noted that a standardised operational procedure in this area will be developed during 2018.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-13-54-commissie-ic722x.u105	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your answer. Procedures are important. They often save time. But beyond that, I think it would also be interesting for each area to draw up a list of the somewhat special equipment available to it, of which the other areas would have knowledge so that, in some cases, they could save time.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-13-54-commissie-ic722x.u106	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-13-54-commissie-ic722x.u107	Is that planned? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-13-54-commissie-ic722x.u108	Minister, two major Afghan migrants and two minor Eritrean migrants over the age of 16 were charged and detained on Wednesday, 21 June. My question was dated 22 June. They are suspected of being at the origin of a dam on the motorway which led to the death of the Polish driver of a van, on the night of 19-20 June near Calais. Once again, despite the dismantling of the Calais Jungle in 2015, migrants flocked into the area to try to cross the English Channel to Britain. The situation before 2015 seems to be repeating itself. Perhaps the Brexit vote of June 2016 gives these migrants the urgency to move ahead with any further measures to close the British borders. Moreover, the British Government suggests that this will indeed be the case. Since 2002, with the closure of the Red Cross Centre in Sangatte, and despite the actual displacement of customs officers and English services on French territory, the Caliasian region remains a focal point, close to our border, for migrants trying to reach the Albion. Minister, do you have any information that migrants are once again trying to reach our ports by crossing our border from the North of France, as was the case in 2015? What are the main routes taken by migrants led by mafia networks in our territory? Can you observe, via the federal police, an upsurge of migrants since the dismantling of the Caliasian 'jungle'? What are the main challenges faced by the police forces in the face of these migratory flows? Have you ever been able to make contact with your new French counterpart Gérard Collomb, former mayor of Lyon, on this subject?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-13-54-commissie-ic722x.u109	Mr Flahaux, for your first question, between January and August of this year, 1,417 illegal aliens were intercepted in the port of Zeebrugge. This figure is much lower than that for the same period in 2016 – which was 2,186. The top 5 nationalities of intercepted persons are as follows: Sudanese, 343; Eritreans, 311; Indians, 164; Syrians, 112; Iraqis, 97. The ports of Antwerp, Ghent and Ostend are experiencing an increase in intercepted transmigrants. For the first eight months of this year, there are 97, 118 and 37 illegal intercepted, respectively. It seems that the same nationalities as in Zeebrugge are the most represented. The intercepted migrants come almost all from within the country. Only a few come from France. For your second question, there is always a flow of migrants driven by traffickers to parking lots along the E40, between Brussels and the coast. A new procedure has been observed in recent months. Foreigners board a train in Brussels-Nord to a city near a car park along a motorway. The most affected locations are those of Heverlee, Waremme, Peruwelz, Ranst, Vosselaar and Rumst. Other means of public transport are sometimes also used to reach a car park or directly to the coast. Secondly, the dismantling of the Calais 'jungle' did not produce the expected increase. The main difficulties are first of all the interception of large groups, given the limited infrastructure in many places and the reduced police capacity depending on the moment – especially at night. These operations affect the availability of response teams. The time taken to process the file per intercepted person is also a difficulty, as well as the decisions that require the person to be released on the spot. In many cases, these persons are again intercepted by another police service or by the same. The limited lock-in capacity of the Foreign Office is also a challenge. It has increased from 430 seats at the beginning of the legislature to 620 seats now. The government recently made the decision to increase capacity to 1,060 places by 2020 or 2021. I come to my contact with Mr. Collomb. I have already had contacts with my French counterpart on the sidelines of the Justice and Home Affairs Council in June. In addition to other international meetings, further contacts are possible, if necessary. We said that we were going to see each other for a bilateral meeting, with an expanded agenda, and this issue is on the agenda for the coming weeks. The exact time is not yet defined, but this appointment will take place.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-13-54-commissie-ic722x.u110	Minister, thank you for your answer, and I will make three small remarks. You have referred to parking lots; in this case, would it not be appropriate, even if it falls within the competence of the Regions, to dialogue with a view to installing cameras on these parking lots? Secondly, I thank you for providing us with figures, but what surprised me when I read them was that among the top five nationalities are the Indians. A priori, however, India is not a country with political problems, although it may have different economic problems. As much as we understand the presence of Sudan, Eritrea, Syria and Iraq, India is a strange element. It's not your fault, but it would be worth asking: why India? Perhaps the fact that an important Indian community is in Britain, as well as a Pakistani community, is a partial explanation of this phenomenon. In any case, minister, thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-13-54-commissie-ic722x.u111	Mr President, Minister, according to a statement by the Federal Prosecutor's Office on Saturday 8 July, three people were arrested for transferring money to Daesh fighters (which I prefer to call "Naz Islamists") in a series of searches conducted in Antwerp, Ghent, Lokeren, Berchem and Deurne. Six people were interviewed, but only Iraqis Mohammed A.D. (31 years old) and Najem S. (31 years old) and Syrian Omar A. (24 years) were placed under arrest. They are suspected of joining a terrorist organization. The two Iraqis, aided by the Syrian, are said to have transferred several sums from 200 to 300 euros via an illegal system. Minister, without interfering with the work of investigators, can you give me additional information on this matter? Do you have the technical means to monitor the transfer of money to those areas where, even if it is less and less, the "Naz Islamists"? What were the criteria for the searches targeting these individuals? Is the investigation closed or are other investigative duties still planned? Have these Syrians and Iraqis arrived at our house as part of the reception of refugees? Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-13-54-commissie-ic722x.u112	Mr Flahaux, your questions are not within my competence but within the competence of my colleague, Mr Koen Geens, Minister of Justice. I have, moreover, already answered this type of question several times and my answer is always the same, namely that the secrecy of the investigation does not allow me to give you details of the facts or of the investigation under way. You also ask me questions about survey methods and screenings used. Nor can I provide you with information about this because of the confidentiality surrounding the operation and methods of policing. Disclosure could benefit criminals. As for the other part of your question, it falls within the competence of Mr Geens.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-13-54-commissie-ic722x.u113	I regret that Parliament did not reorient my question as it did for my second question. I thank you, however, for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-13-54-commissie-ic722x.u114	Mr President, I thank my colleague, the mayor of Saint-Josse, for his understanding. According to the press, a 16-year-old minor, on the run from Fraipont's IPPJ since March last, passed without a shadow in mid-August, each of the different controls at the Brussels-National airport, before embarking on a family holiday by the sea in Antalya, Turkey. This sought after teenager, internationally reported, and suspected of radicalism, boarded the plane to a city, although known for having been a long-time place of passage for young jihadists to Syria. Can you confirm this information? Was this minor suspected of radicalism? Why was he in IPPJ? By what means did he escape? Are you in touch with your colleague from the Wallonia-Brussels Federation, Mr Madrane, about the security of the IPPJ? What are the flaws in the safety of these PPJI? As for the security and control measures at Zaventem airport, how is it possible, at level 3 of the terrorist threat, to pass each of the security checks and, above all, to take place in a plane crowded with tourists when, obviously, this minor is on the run and suspected of radicalism? What were the various flaws in the airport control systems? Is the airport equipped with electronic means of body recognition or fingerprints? What conclusions have already been drawn by the various competent authorities in this case? What steps are you going to take to further improve airport security?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-13-54-commissie-ic722x.u115	Mr Flahaux, in the analysis of the case, it appears that the minor was not "on the run". It was reported that it could not leave the territory without the written consent of the youth judge. Measures were also provided for in the report in the event of interception at the border or abroad without such written agreement. In the present case, he had a document authorizing him to leave the territory. This means that, while crossing the border, it was checked and intercepted as it is actually reported. During his interception, he presented permission to leave the territory and was able to board as the conditions of the report were met. For your good information, the Turkish authorities sent him back to Belgium as soon as he arrived in Turkey, given the report he had received. Arriving in Belgium, he was again intercepted and contacted by the aviation police with the competent magistrate and the PGF. It must be noted that this minor of age was in order at the level of the conditions laid down for his travel abroad. A report was drawn up by the aviation police present in Zaventem. This means that, in reality, border control has taken place properly for someone who leaves the Schengen area, in accordance with the rules currently in force, in particular with control of police data banks. With regard to your second question, our vision of security at the national airport has been validated by the National Security Council. It is based in particular on the rings of security. This means that specific measures have been developed at the entrance to the car parks, at the car parks, at the entrance to the airport building and at the time of crossing the border. I will not dwell on the various aspects of the measures for the sake of discretion and to avoid damaging the arrangements put in place. I would also point out that border control at the entry and exit of the Schengen area has been strengthened in recent months, notably through the systematic control of police data banks. As far as your third question is concerned, there is a fingerprinting system. A facial recognition system is currently being tested. We will have to analyze the test results before implementing it or not in our safety system. Finally, in view of the case, it seems difficult to draw lessons from a situation which was in fact non-controversial.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-13-54-commissie-ic722x.u116	Minister, thank you for your detailed answers. We need to consider how this information was disclosed. It was a thunderstorm that worried a lot of people. I think I will ask the Minister of Justice a question because he is an individual who was "marked" and letting him go abroad is a bit surprising.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-13-54-commissie-ic722x.u117	Mr Minister, on Wednesday 23 August, EDF announced, via a press release, that reactor 1 of the Chooz power plant – which is established in France, but which is literally enclaved in Belgian territory, specifically in the province of Namur – had been shut down "as a result of the unexpected closure of a steam valve". A week earlier, the same reactor had already been shut down for 48 hours, a relatively long time. It seems to have been an intervention in the engine room. I am concerned about the proximity of these two stops. The EDF group chose not to communicate the origin of the problems found and the causes of the shutdown of the reactor. This can only raise the question and concern of the citizens, especially Belgians, who live close to the power station. The operator confines himself to a very laconic communication, I turn to you, Minister of the Interior, to obtain information about these incidents and to encourage you to ask for all the light in this matter. I would also like to ask you to remain attentive to the security of this plant very close to our territory. Minister, can you tell me whether you have been informed by the French authorities of the incident of 23 August? What is the nature of it? Did they inform you of the August 19th? Why was the reactor shut down from August 17 to 19? Was this stop programmed? If you have not been informed, do you intend to ask your French counterpart directly about this? Maybe you did it on the basis of the filing of my question. Taking into account the information available to you regarding these incidents, do you intend to request a strengthening of the monitoring of the Chooz power plant? Finally, let us take this opportunity to take stock of the local information commission in Chooz. When was the last meeting held? What was the representative of the Belgian State at that meeting? In the light of the incidents mentioned above, do you intend to take any steps towards France and call for a further meeting of this information body of the communities concerned by the said power station?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-13-54-commissie-ic722x.u118	Mr Gilkinet, the control of the safety of French nuclear power plants falls within the competence of the French nuclear safety authorities. They shall ensure that French operators take the necessary steps to ensure the safety of their nuclear installations at all times. I am convinced that the French authorities will respond appropriately to this case if it proves necessary. I also hope that you understand that it is not possible for me to comment on technical issues that are taking place completely outside our country. With regard to the transmission of information, I have not been informed by the French authorities of the two incidents mentioned. Please be aware that there is an information exchange agreement between the Belgian and French nuclear safety authorities. It provides that in the event of well-defined events and situations in relation to nuclear sites near the Franco-Belgian border, it is the responsibility of the competent authority to notify its counterpart. This agreement applies to all events classified at level 1 and above on the INES scale, as well as certain specific events classified at level 0 or not classified. However, the two incidents you mention do not fall within the scope of this Convention. France, for this type of incident, was not obliged to inform us. She didn't. The situations in which both countries need to be informed are well defined. The incidents referred to here do not fall within the scope of this Convention.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-13-54-commissie-ic722x.u119	Minister, I would like to tell you again how much security at the Chooz power station concerns our country. Look at a map. She is, as I said, enclaved in Belgium. The Meuse is used for cooling, as for other power plants. The Meuse flows to Belgium. The prevailing winds are directed towards Belgium. We cannot consider that the issue of safety at the Chooz power station concerns only France. On the contrary, it mainly concerns Belgium. I understand that the two incidents I have identified have not been classified at a level 1 or higher and that, according to the conventions governing the exchange of information on the subject between France and Belgium, there was no obligation on the part of France. But I ask you again to be particularly vigilant about this. One might wonder whether the conventions currently under way were sufficient in relation to the ageing of power plants. These problems are worrying, although they are certainly less serious than those which my colleague Mr Nollet was able to identify earlier, and on which we are asking for a debate. In our view, the ageing of power plants, including that of Chooz, deserves greater vigilance on the part of Belgium, and possibly a revision of these conventions. Furthermore, I note that you have not answered the question of the local information commission of Chooz, to which the Belgian authorities and the province of Namur must be associated. I don't think she's meeting enough. Lack of information can cause concern, even when there is no reason to worry.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-13-54-commissie-ic722x.u120	Minister of the Interior, the press last August echoed the publication of a circular aimed at establishing general and precise rules for the use of drones, which are increasingly present at major events. In fact, outside the home, an authorization from the Air Transport Directorate of the Mobility FPS is essential to use a drone, just as at a major event, such as a festival or a sporting competition. Thus, a risk analysis must be carried out by the competent municipal authorities, so that they may or may not be used. Therefore, Minister, I would like to ask you the following questions, which are quite simple. Can you specify the content of this circular and the timetable for its implementation? Does this circular provide for solutions to detect and, if necessary, neutralize used drones? Are you considering further action? The privacy aspect and certain uses of the drone go hand in hand, how does this circular take this aspect into account?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-13-54-commissie-ic722x.u121	Mr Kir, the circular referred to has been drawn up in the Drones Working Group, which brings together all the relevant departments, under the chairmanship of the Crisis Centre. This group includes representatives of local police, federal police, defence, general air traffic and civil security. Police officials have repeatedly stressed that there is still a lack of clarity among the actors on the ground about the powers of the mayors in the context of the use of drones at major events. This concern was expressed following a series of examples in Belgium and abroad, where almost all incidents took place with drones. You can imagine that during events involving a mass of people, incidents involving drones can have serious consequences. It was therefore decided, in consultation with the Directorate-General for Air Traffic, to draw up a circular clarifying the responsibilities of the mayor. Thus, the mayor may, on the basis of the powers described in the new communal law, adopt measures for the preservation of public order and security. In concrete terms, this means that it can impose additional conditions on the use of drones for a limited period of time within a defined area, as long as they are part of the preservation of public order and security. The mayors are already taking orders in the context of events, for example, the closure of a few streets during a kermess. They may also decide to impose measures on organizers within the framework of law and order and public safety. However, the circular clearly states that a general ban on overflight is not possible for drones. This is indeed the competence of the Directorate-General for Air Traffic. Measures for the detection and neutralisation of drones are not the subject of this circular, which is used exclusively to clarify certain existing competences. However, I can inform you that the objective of the working group is to discuss and implement such measures within the integrated police force. There is also a working group dealing with the whole issue of drones. To answer your second question, I can say that the entire privacy legislation and the Royal Decree of 10 April 2016 on the use of remotely piloted aircraft in Belgian airspace remain, of course, in force. The circular simply deals with the theme of your first question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-13-54-commissie-ic722x.u122	Minister, thank you for your answer. I shall await the conclusions of this Working Party on Drones. It is clear that the mayor must be able to play his role in public order and public security. I look forward to seeing how, through the conclusions of the working group, responsibilities will be distributed. This is an issue that is of great concern to us, because more and more people want to use a drone at festivals and sporting events. We don't know what attitude to adopt. The circular should help us.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-13-54-commissie-ic722x.u123	Mr President, Mr Deputy Prime Minister, according to a report by Committee P, published last July, there are too few intervention platoons within the Belgian police. Committee P notes that after 2001, the walking units, as they are called, were abolished or dismantled and services such as the intervention force (ICK), which partially replaced them, face an average staff deficit of 19.7%. Committee P's report refers to the National Officer's School, according to which "the risk threshold is likely to be reached faster". After the joint trade union demonstration of 6 November 2014 in Brussels, an internal report had already concluded that there was a problem of mobilisation capacity. The analysis is in line with that of the General Inspectorate of Police Services for which "the capacity immediately available for simultaneous events is very limited". In this regard, you referred earlier to a whole series of situations. He therefore wondered how long the police could deal with several unforeseen, serious and simultaneous events and when it would no longer be possible for them to intervene in the event of additional peril. Therefore, Minister, do you share the conclusions and questions of the P Committee's report? If so, what steps do you intend to take to address the issues raised in the cited report?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-13-54-commissie-ic722x.u124	Mr Kir, fortunately, I did not wait for the recommendations of Committee P to optimize the functioning of the police services. The police recruited 1,600 people last year and these recruits are still in training in schools. You know as I know that training lasts at least a year. The recruits will soon graduate. This year we will be recruiting 1,400 and again in 2018 1,400 more. In addition, the Optimization Act has resulted, among other things, in the creation of the Directorate of Public Security (DAS), which has a capacity of 1,600 people; this is to be added to the figures already mentioned. The Directorate provides support to police areas for the management of major events (events, festivals, disasters) and provides the integrated police with a general service consisting of two platoons that can be mobilized 24 hours a day and 7 days a week. In the event of a crisis, these two platoons are immediately available. I would add that during large-scale events, the local police can always ask for the support of the federal police through the mechanisms provided for in MFO-2, and more specifically in point 3.2. This point says that if the scope of the necessary police system is such that the police zone's own effort is insufficient, the area concerned will in the first instance appeal through the dirco to the available part of the Federal Police Task Force (CIK) of the province of which the police zone is part. Members of the ICK staff who are already in charge of another operational mission may be reoriented by the dirco, after consultation with the head of corps, towards the maintenance of the order of the new event. If this capacity is insufficient, the third instance, through dirco and DAO, is appealed to the intervention force of other provinces. As the engagement of these units is not always the most efficient solution (language use, long distances, missions already assigned), this commitment (determining the province of supply and the personnel to be implemented) will be carried out in consultation with DAO and dirco and, where appropriate, with the relevant corps head. Point 3.5 provides for peak days. If all requests for support for all events that take place on the same day so require, DAO will issue a state-of-the-art day and communicate it to me as well as to dircos and chiefs of corps. During a peak day, the standards of 4% of the mortgaged capacity are increased to 7%. Here are the different steps to deal with the situations you have described.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-13-54-commissie-ic722x.u125	Minister, thank you for your answers. There are situations with staffing problems. I was just asking you about absenteeism; it is all connected, of course. Solidarity between the police and the DAS is certainly essential. I shall return to this point on the occasion of another oral question. Minister, I would urge you to ensure that recruitment can take place within the deadlines you have set. I don't know when the 1,600 policemen will get out of school.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-13-54-commissie-ic722x.u126	Every month.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-13-54-commissie-ic722x.u127	You have also announced a recruitment of 1,400 this year. He's in class. Then there will be 1,400 more. There is a real need to strengthen staff, because insufficient staffing is the first problem that can be pointed out.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-13-54-commissie-ic722x.u128	Earlier, I would like to talk to you, in the corridors, about the situation of justice of peace in Saint-Josse, with the Régie des Bâtiments. But first my question. According to information reported by Het Nieuwsblad on August 6, the police control services, the General Inspectorate, are experiencing a labour shortage of 25%. It's huge! In fact, the general inspection, the second least known police control service, with Committee P normally employs at least 96 people, but this figure has fallen in recent years to the point that the personnel are in the middle of the task. The service has been under the ad interim direction of Inspector General François Adam for eight years, who has been officially retired since 1 August and should be replaced. This does not seem to happen, having no successor, so that the inspector continues to perform his duties. Yet he had to return his security badge and his weapons, and must now enter the offices with a visitor badge. Could you provide an update on the exact situation of the Directorate-General of the Inspectorate-General? Has the shortage of labour among the police control services been overcome in the meantime? What is the current strength of the General Inspection? Is that sufficient, in particular to enable it to fulfil its obligations? Has there been a recent evaluation? Finally, do you intend to take steps to remedy this situation and on what time frame?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-13-54-commissie-ic722x.u129	Mr Kir, since the 6th of August, the date of the aforementioned article, I can confirm that my services have worked hard to ensure the replacement of the inspector general ad interim, Mr François Adam. The latter was replaced at the head of the General Inspection by a new AIG agent, Mr. Thierry Gillis. He is the head of this executive control department following the appointment order dated August 31, 2017 and his oath of office dated September 1, 2017, which is in my hands. In addition, the selection board for the Assistant Inspector General's term of office conducts the assessment of candidates between September 18 and 22. The two new agents will therefore be in place by the end of this year. Where, for almost a decade, my predecessors have not, or have failed to, done so, I am doing everything I can with my colleague the Minister of Justice to ensure that the organs and functions essential to the effective functioning of the integrated, two-tiered police force are properly functioning. I am thinking, among other things, of the installation of the Council of Mayors in 2016, of the new Local Police Commission, which will be installed tomorrow, and of the renewal of the mandate functions of the AIG. With regard to the current strength of the General Inspectorate of the Federal Police and the local police, it consists of 61 members, out of the 95 jobs set out in the organizational framework in force, defined by royal decrees of 20 July 2001 and 7 February 2007 and a ministerial decree of 21 February 2007. Like all administrations, the AIG suffers the risks of departures, statutory prerogatives and replacement procedures. Nevertheless, in the next mobility cycle, two operational and two administrative jobs will be published. Moreover, it is not enough to integrate new collaborators into the IGA. It is also necessary to identify their objectives and tasks, to find competent and talented people and to allow opportunities to retain them through internal promotion mechanisms. I will therefore await the proposal for a mission letter from the newly appointed agents, in which they will submit to me a multi-year plan with well-defined objectives concerning the IGA's mission and a budget estimate of the necessary resources – logistical staff, ICT and financial – for the proper functioning of the departmental service. Nor do I exclude an adaptation of the profiles currently defined to enable the IGA to meet its strategic challenges. My intention is to improve the quality of the work and the functioning of the IGA. It's a continuous improvement. The budget year concerning the means of this service will also be done. The drafting and approval of such a mission letter takes place during the first year of the mandate. At the present time, the current staff force forces us to set priorities for the implementation of the AIG's missions. We ensure that these choices do not block the functioning of integrated police mechanisms, such as the selection and evaluation of chiefs of corps or urgent judicial investigations.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-13-54-commissie-ic722x.u130	Minister, information reported by VTM Nieuws and taken over by the Free on 19 July points out that a hacker has managed to hack the Flemish website of medical appointments "Digitale Wachtkamer" and thus obtain the e-mail addresses and telephone numbers of half a million Belgian patients. No medical records would have been stolen but the reasons for the doctor's requests for consultations. Indeed, "Digitale Wachtkamer" is a website through which patients can make an appointment with the general practitioner. Approximately 550,000 to 660,000 of them use this platform. In an e-mail, the pirate asked the manager for 42 bitcoins, or 85,000 euros. The company filed a complaint with the Computer Crime Unit of the Federal Police. Could you give us more details about this cyberattack? Could an investigation be conducted to identify the perpetrator(s)? What were the conclusions? Have any faults been identified in safety and thus exploited by the hacker? If so, which ones? What are the very concrete initiatives taken by the competent authorities to prevent and stem the effects of such attacks? Has this attack caused financial damage to this platform? If so, could you specify its nature?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-13-54-commissie-ic722x.u131	Mr Kir, on your first question, I am sorry, but an investigation is under way within the Federal Judicial Police in Limburg. Because of the secrecy of the instruction, it is impossible for me to provide you, for the time being, with a detailed answer. We'll come back after the investigation. To answer your second question, I would say that prevention has a very important role to play in avoiding such an attack. The functioning of the CWB plays a crucial role in this prevention. With regard to the police, the National Security Plan contains many provisions in line with the framework note, providing for actions both in terms of prevention and in terms of adequate response to such incidents. I will give you a few examples: a joint preventive approach with partners, in particular by reassuring possible victims – businesses, sensitive sectors, etc. – by means of campaigns; detection of such attacks by means of an early warning system led by the CWB; improvement of the quality of police investigations, notably by setting up various working groups, with the aim of increasing expertise; implementation within the police of the incident response procedure, headed by the CWB; promotion and development of public partnerships to draw on the expertise of each and to exchange information; development of a better vision with a view to better defining priorities in the approach; and establishment of platforms for the exchange of information between the authorities and the private sector. As far as the financial disadvantage is concerned, it is mainly in the area of reputation damage, which can lead to a heavy loss in terms of customers – cases that are directly quantifiable, even if I have no figures in this respect. In concrete terms, no victim has yet reported direct material loss. However, this has not yet been defined, as the file is still under review.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-13-54-commissie-ic722x.u132	Minister, thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-13-54-commissie-ic722x.u133	Mr Minister, on 5 April 2017, I submitted a written question to check the police commitment for football matches in first class A and first class B. In your reply, you based yourself on the most recent figures available at the time, which related to the 2015-2016 season. The total cost for the deployment of police officers was then estimated at EUR 6 272 208. However, there were also major differences between the different clubs at the time. When we look at the local police, we see that Charleroi deployed the highest number of local agents in absolute numbers during that season. These were 2 319 agents and 1 770 agents before Anderlecht and 1 614 agents before Standard. When we look at the deployment of the federal police, we see Club Bruges in the lead with 1 237 agents, before Charleroi with 892 agents and Lokeren with 822 agents. I've been working on the data you've provided to check how many agents per supporter have been deployed in that season and then I've come to the conclusion that there are huge differences per club. Racing Genk, KV Kortrijk and OH Leuven then each employ 3.0 agents on average per thousand supporters, while that was 14.3 for Mouscron and 14.6 for Charleroi, almost five times as much. The average was about 6.3 cops per thousand supporters. In your reply, you mentioned that there are profound differences between the police zones. On the one hand, these can be explained by the difference in the number of risk competitions, the number of supporters and their behaviour and the infrastructure. You were also convinced that the different approach is linked to the way in which the mayor and/or the police services fulfil their responsibility for maintaining public order. Some prefer a quantitative, rather than qualitative, use of the police. Police involvement in football matches is currently a very important issue in the preparation of my bill on the revision of the current football law. Among other things, the representatives of the KBVB and the Pro League said during the hearings on the revision of the football law on 20 June in the Chambers Committee for the Interior that the clubs are requesting parties to reduce police deployment at football matches. They refer to the matches after the attacks in Brussels, which took place without or with fewer federal policemen without incident. How is the use of federal police at football matches currently determined? Who decides how many federal police officers are sent to which game? What conditions are attached to this? Have any applications for the federal police's deployment for a football match been refused? If so, what was the reason? In your view, is there any possibility of even greater consideration being given to the capacity and use of local police forces in the distribution of federal police forces? Finally, can you take additional measures to reduce the total number of police officers deployed? If so, what steps will you take? What's the timing?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-13-54-commissie-ic722x.u134	Previously, I would like to point out that Antwerp is in fifth place in class 1A and Beerschot in first place in class 1B, and that we have beaten Roeselare with a lot of brio. The involvement of police officers in football matches is determined after a thorough risk analysis by the local police department responsible for the event. It examines the potential risks and the measures to be taken to control the risks. The whole policy is therefore based on a risk analysis carried out by the local police. On this basis, the police zone in whose territory the football match takes place determines how much police is needed to manage it. If the deployment of significant police resources is required, the police area should, in accordance with the latest Police Directive MFO-2 on the mechanism of solidarity between police areas on reinforcements for administrative police missions, make sufficient efforts in the first instance to deploy its own personnel. This is a bet of at least 12%, before it can be called on non-specialised reinforcement. The MFO-2 circular is currently being revised and I expect to be able to bring the new directive into force on 1 January 2018. The reinforcement of the police provided may consist of agents from other local police areas. That's the mortgaged capacity or HyCap. As far as the federal police are concerned, these are agents or resources of the intervention corps and of the Public Security or DAS Directorate, or of the specialised support of the federal police. Most types of specialised support exist only at federal police level, such as sprayers, cavalry and helicopters, and are distributed independently of the capacity of the requesting zone but on the basis of the risk analysis carried out by the area concerned. In accordance with Article 104 of the Integrated Police Act, DirCo is responsible for responding to applications for operational support from local police. The DirCo shall evaluate, in consultation with the local police chief of police, the applications for operational support, which shall be sent to him. To this end, it shall base itself on the criteria of legality, subsidiarity and speciality, proportionality, profitability, opportunity, risk analysis and the use of the zone's own resources. He will test the zone's own use against risk analysis and by the rules, because one can always ask and keep asking. The DirCo therefore has a supervisory function in this respect. In certain cases, the initial application for reinforcement shall be adapted in consultation. Where insufficient resources are available, applications are usually refused. The distribution of non-specialised aid already takes into account the capacity of local police. A smaller corps will need and be able to call for reinforcement more quickly, as it will exceed the threshold of 12% of its own efforts more quickly. In view of the fact that the federal police are mostly asked for its specialized support and that the zones usually do not have such resources, the federal police in most cases provide that support on the basis of the risk analyses carried out by the zones and not on the basis of the capacity of the requesting zone. Usually it's about spray trucks or helicopters. There are few local areas that have a helicopter. I come to your fourth question. Local authorities are responsible for law and order. The authority to manage an event and thus to determine the resources needed for it lies with the local areas. A police area requiring more support than what is absolutely necessary is unnecessarily burdening the other police areas, which can disrupt the exercise of basic functions. The Chief of Staff concerned therefore has an important responsibility to ask for aid only if the own resources prove to be insufficient. I have asked the police to review the solidarity mechanisms on reinforcements for tasks of administrative police. The future directive will repeat the need for the responsible person of an event to carry out a thorough risk analysis before requesting reinforcement. And although the police are one of the most important actors in ensuring safety in football, it seems essential to me to also refer to the existence of an integrated and integrated security approach in football policy. In concrete terms, this means that all the actors involved are involved, and I think of the governments, the organizers, the clubs, the police and the FPS Home Affairs Football Cell working together on a multidisciplinary approach. Both organisational aspects, prevention and punishment are addressed. With regard to the latter, the punishment, I am in favour of a strict prohibition policy and sanctions against persons who violate the football law in such events with their inappropriate behaviour. This is unacceptable, and it also has an impact on the police effort. Football must be a party in which all the actors involved can participate.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-13-54-commissie-ic722x.u135	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. Of course, it's not for me to say that we're going to centralize things. The risk analysis is, of course, best done by the local police, but it has also been shown that local police are sometimes asked a little more than is necessary. I've seen that more than once. You yourself said that you instructed the local areas to carry out a thorough investigation and to look into what could be improved. I think this can only fit in with what we want to achieve ourselves, with an integrated security approach to football, to which all partners can contribute. We must not rely solely on the security provided by the police.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-13-54-commissie-ic722x.u136	Since all the questions have been answered, we can close the sitting for today.
