ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-24-54-commissie-ic674x.u1	Mr. President, Minister, the Courthouse in Tournai was recently the victim of an attempted break-in robbery on the premises of the Correctional Registry and the exhibits. Several doors were broken by the perpetrators of the mischief. Minister, how is it that there is no alarm system to prevent such intrusions? These are very important pieces that you will agree should be kept with the utmost care. Asked about this last December, Minister of Justice Koen Geens explained to us that the FPS Justice had defined standards, as well as the features of a security plan for the courthouses in general directives and had transmitted them in September 2013 to the Régie des Bâtiments. This document sets out the standards for securing buildings, as well as the premises where exhibits are kept. It is therefore up to the Régie des Bâtiments to take charge of the measures described in these directives during the first installation work. Minister, where are you in the security stages of the building of the Tournai courthouse? When will the site security work be completed?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-24-54-commissie-ic674x.u2	Mr President, Mr Delannois, the security of the Tournai courthouse is planned in several phases. The first step has been to secure fire by means of fire detection, the installation of fire doors, emergency stairways and new emergency exits. The project was completed in 2011. The second phase was the security of detained access and external access. The projects were completed in December 2016 for CCTV (video surveillance) and in January 2017 for access control. The third phase consisted of securing the premises of the exhibits with the addition of a volumetric detection system in addition to the access control system. This project was completed in December 2016. Other phases remain to be planned. This is the generalised anti-invasive security. The preliminary study is the responsibility of the FPS Justice. Once the study is approved, the execution will be taken over by the Régie des Bâtiments. It is also about internal organizational security. This security is the responsibility of the Justice FPS.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-24-54-commissie-ic674x.u3	Mr Minister, with regard to the first phase of fire safety, all that would be lacking! If a building like this wasn't secure, the mayor of the city of Tournai might come to disturb you. I note that the second and third phases are the responsibility of the Régie des Bâtiments and that work has been carried out. For the fourth and fifth phases, it's a little ping-pong. Indeed, Mr. Geens told me to question you. I'm gonna go back to him and ask him about the status of these studies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-24-54-commissie-ic674x.u4	Minister, the former gendarmerie on rue de la Citadelle in Tournai is in a state that I would call total abandonment. Activities within the gendarmerie ceased in 2005 as a result of police reform, with the merger of the gendarmerie and the local police. It has now been twelve years since the premises were unoccupied. Unfortunately, I note that this building, owned by the Régie des Bâtiments, is not maintained or secure. At the very site of this old gendarmerie, we find abundant vegetation, broken windows, broken doors, stained walls and I dare not imagine what could be found inside. Minister, what is the future for this building? Do you have a plan for the future of this place? Do you intend, in the short term, to secure it in order to prevent the creation of squats?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-24-54-commissie-ic674x.u5	The former gendarmerie building on rue de la Citadelle in Tournai was emptied in 2005 following the relocation of the police area of Tournai to its new facilities. At the same time, the Régie des Bâtiments was looking for surfaces for the archives of the Palais de Justice in Tournai, due to a problem of stability. Taking advantage of the released surfaces, these archives were moved to Block B of the complex. In addition, the Régie agreed that the police zone should be able to continue to dispose of the main building (block A) for training purposes. Finally, there is an ASTRID antenna located on the property that is still active and also used by gsm operators. With regard to the damage, the police zone of Tournai warned the Régie des Bâtiments in October 2014 that the complex had been tagged and broken with glass. No degradation had taken place so far. The Régie immediately requested the assistance of the police zone and an inspector specializing in the security of homes and the fight against tags. In consultation and following the instructions collected, it secured the complex and no further degradation has been reported since then. As police exercises are always conducted once or twice a month, this seems sufficiently disincentive to avoid the risk of squatting. In addition, judicial officers regularly visit the site to consult the archives stored in Block A. Gms technicians also regularly intervene on the site. As far as the surroundings are concerned, an interview was carried out in 2015 and a general interview of the surroundings is planned this year. Currently, the Régie is looking for surfaces that can accommodate the archives of Block B while taking into account the requirements of proximity to the courthouse. Once the archives are moved, if the complex cannot be assigned to another federal service, it will be handed over to Domains for sale.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-24-54-commissie-ic674x.u6	Minister, I don't know where to start. I can understand that a minister cannot know all the streets of Belgium, but you will understand that, as a mayor acting as Tournai, I know the situation on the spot. I don't know who informed you, but in my opinion, we have a little falsified the reality. You mentioned the archives of Block B. Let me give you an image. Imagine a huge castle with a very large park. And at the bottom of the park, there is possibly a bicycle room. You are told that the bicycle room is occupied and that the castle is in ruins. The same applies to the archives in question, which are located in a completely outlying area of the former gendarmerie. I'm officially inviting you to come and see on the spot. You'll find that you've been lied to. You're saying the police are going to Block A. I don't know what police are going there, because no one would dare go back to that building that's totally abandoned. We're lying to you, willingly or not. But in any case, I invite you to come and see on the spot. No one's going into this building anymore. It's a real canker! Let me give you a little bit of a solution. The courthouse is located in the centre of Tournai. The gendarmerie, which belongs to the Régie des Bâtiments and is in the process of collapsing, is 150 metres away. I'll tell you again, no one would dare enter for fear of picking up a stone on their heads. On the other side, 300 metres away as a bird flies, there are premises rented by the Régie des Bâtiments to place staff from the courthouse. Do you know how much the rental price of these premises is? You're Flemish, for you money is something. If you were to manage these assets for your own family, I'm sure you would be subject to an interim property administrator. Do you know how high the rent is 300 meters from the other side? 855 868, 75 euros for another building! Admit something's wrong. I assure you, you've been lied to. Come there and I'll show you this canker, very close to downtown Tournai. This building is collapsing and no one, contrary to what you have been told, is entering it. If someone gets in there, they might get a brick on their head.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-24-54-commissie-ic674x.u7	We must not go to the gendarmerie in Tournai, in this case.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-24-54-commissie-ic674x.u8	No, I assure you it's a canker. No one's going there anymore. The police wouldn't dare enter, I assure you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-24-54-commissie-ic674x.u9	Question No 16431 by Mr Gilkinet is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-24-54-commissie-ic674x.u10	Mr President, Minister, in 2014, the Federal Police left its buildings in Ixelles and moved to the State Administrative City for an annual rent of €13.2 million. Very quickly suspicions of fraud and corruption were relayed by the press in connection with this operation. These suspicions have recently rebounded with the arrest of various suspects, including members of the federal police at the time. Various parliamentary questions have already been asked on this subject to you and your predecessors. The parliament was then informed that internal investigations and an audit had been initiated in November 2013 on the conditions of the operation. This audit was not yet available in response to these questions. Minister, what are the important steps that led to the installation of the federal police at the State Administrative City (political decision, public procurement, etc.)?( )? What arguments, whether budgetary or organizational in nature, led to this decision? What internal investigation and audit procedures have been decided on as a result of these suspicions of corruption or fraud? When were they implemented? Why have these internal investigations not yet been completed? What is being done to enable them to reach their goals in the shortest possible time? Can you commit yourself now that the results of these investigations and audits are communicated to Parliament? Have the Régie des Bâtiments or the federal government formed a civil party in this matter? If so, on what date? If not, why? Do the government or the Régie des Bâtiments intend to make this decision? Are you aware of the status of the judicial proceedings in this case? What can you tell us about this?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-24-54-commissie-ic674x.u11	Mr Gilkinet, the various stages relating to the intervention of the Régie des Bâtiments in the file of the installation of the federal police at the Cité administrative de l'État can be summarized as follows. In 2008, the federal police had their Finance Inspectorate validate a needs program for the consolidation of various services in the city centre. By decision of 27 March 2009, the Council of Ministers authorized the Minister responsible for the Régie des Bâtiments to carry out an analysis of the request of the Federal Police and to identify existing availabilities in the Brussels rental market. Following this decision, the Régie des Bâtiments, in consultation with the Federal Police, consulted the rental market by notice of contract dated 29 June 2009, with a view to receiving applications for centralization of the services concerned before 2013. The various projects were evaluated on the basis of the following operational and technical criteria. There was a need for a central position in the Region, close to the judicial authorities. The building was to be away from the usual itineraries of the demonstrations. Several parking spaces were needed, as it was impossible to separate vehicles from offices – parking could not be located directly under the building for security reasons. A social criterion also had to be met: the building had to be located next to the major railway stations and mobility routes, as well as in the vicinity of personal services and shopping centres. The height of the parking ceiling should also take into account the constraints of the federal police. Upon review of the files submitted, it appeared that only the CAR site, at the site of the former Administrative City, met the criteria of the contract notice. The file was therefore submitted to the Minister of the Interior for prior approval. After approval by the latter, the Régie des Bâtiments proposed to the Council of Ministers of 17 December 2009 to retain the mentioned site and to begin negotiations with the owner. It had been anticipated that the first installation would be carried out through a separate contract, in order to ensure competition for the work and its financing, as required by the public procurement regulations. However, the Council of Ministers of 17 December 2009 considered it more appropriate that the consolidation of certain federal police services should take place through the organisation of a single public contract, both for the rental of the building and for the execution of the first installation work. Following this decision, the Régie des Bâtiments launched, on 29 April 2010, a public procurement through a negotiated and public procedure at European level. After analyzing the three bids received, the Régie found that only one, namely the RAC site, met the above requirements. In accordance with the provisions of the special specification, only one candidate was selected for the second stage of the procedure. The decision to select a single candidate was validated by the Inspectorate of Finance, accredited to the Régie des Bâtiments, and signed by the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Finance on September 15, 2010. It was then sent to the three candidates on September 22, 2010. None of those who had been ousted filed an appeal. With regard to the ongoing investigation procedures, an audit is currently being conducted by the Chief of Staff of the Inspectorate of Finance – under the responsibility of the Minister of Budget – while an investigation is being conducted by Committee P, which depends on the legislative power. Both investigations are ongoing. Neither my firm nor my administration are involved in the investigation or audit. For the information requested concerning the audit carried out by the heads of bodies of the Inspectorate of Finance, I am obliged to refer you to the Minister of Budget, who is the Minister responsible for the Inspectorate of Finance, and to the Federal Parliament for the investigation carried out by Committee P. As explained above, the presentation of the results of investigations and audits is not within my competence. Given the unknown results of the ongoing investigations, I can confirm to you that neither the Régie des Bâtiments nor the Belgian State have taken civil action in this case. We are indeed waiting to know the results of the investigations before taking any decision.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-24-54-commissie-ic674x.u12	Minister, thank you for your very specific answers. I will not fail to question the Minister of Budget on this report from the Inspectorate of Finance. I think that, in any case, it is important not to leave too much time between the alleged facts and the legal action, otherwise it becomes more complicated to act. With regard to decisions that date back to 2010, it is time to have an opinion on the subject. I hope that the Finance Inspectorate, under pressure from the Budget Minister, will act quickly, as will Committee P, under pressure from Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-24-54-commissie-ic674x.u13	Mr Minister, as you will recall, the Ecolo-Groen Group, at the federal and regional level in Brussels, has tabled texts and motions for resolutions concerning the opening up of part of Laeken's royal estate to the general public. I had already asked you about this in the Committee on the Interior last February and you replied that you had asked the Régie des Bâtiments for a study on the legal aspects of such an opening, which obviously raises many questions, whether it be legal or security. These are points that you pointed out at the time. As you know, Laeken's royal estate today belongs to 51 per cent of the Royal Donation, which depends on the Minister of Finance but is in fact autonomous, and to 49 per cent of the Régie des Bâtiments, of which you are in charge. I would therefore like to return to this issue today by asking you the following questions. Is the legal study of the Régie des Bâtiments that you have commissioned completed? If so, what are the conclusions and can we get a copy of them? Otherwise, when will the Régie have completed it? Based on this study, what are the next actions you are going to take on this issue, whether in relation to the Royal Endowment or in relation to informal contacts you may have with the Royal Family? It will obviously take their feelings or opinions to move forward on this issue. And finally, as the minister responsible, are you in favour of the partial opening of Laeken's royal estate to citizens? For if you yourself are convinced of the relevance of this proposal, I imagine that at the political level it will move forward faster and more effectively, what environmentalists want.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-24-54-commissie-ic674x.u14	Mr Minister, as my colleague has said, it is true that various parties have voted for the opening of part of the Laeken Royal Park. The mayor of the city of Brussels also officially asked King Philippe to make part of the Royal Park of Laeken accessible to the public, as part of the anniversary of his five-year reign. That's the idea. Today, along the canal, there is a housing area and therefore, a green space is obviously needed: it would also allow the revitalization of this area of the canal. The King's spokesman refuses to comment on this request for the time being and says that the competence is the responsibility of the federal state, via the Régie des Bâtiments whose guardianship you share with the Donation. What is your position on this request? What is the federal government's position as the spokesperson turns to the federal state to take a position? A study has been carried out, but what are the results, as my colleague has asked? Is this possibility really being explored? It would be a beautiful gesture on the part of the King for his five years. It is true that the government and the appropriate minister could really support this openness.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-24-54-commissie-ic674x.u15	Colleagues, the legal studies concerning the opening up of part of Laeken's royal domain have not yet been completed. So I cannot answer certain questions or draw conclusions. I expect studies to be completed before the next parliamentary holidays, in the coming weeks. You asked for my personal opinion. As the minister responsible, I am waiting for the legal possibilities to partially open Laeken's royal gardens to the public. I am in favour of this idea, which is a new attraction for Laeken. If the legal study is favourable to new possibilities, the safety aspect for the royal family will also need to be examined. We don't want to take any chances. Even I don't want to take any chances. And, if it is legally possible, I will defend this idea within the government.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-24-54-commissie-ic674x.u16	Minister, once the study is completed, we will return to you, if I understand well before July 21. I am glad that you are in favour of this idea. It would indeed be a strong gesture towards the Brussels people and all the citizens to see a huge amount of additional green space available in Brussels, especially in a neighbourhood where population density is already high and will only grow and where there is already a shortage. It is a good thing to move forward in consultation with the royal family. As you recalled, you are the Minister of Security for all Belgians, including the King. So it's normal to worry about it. I also take positive note that the N-VA is concerned about the King and the conditions of the royal family. All the elements are there to move forward. As you know, we are seeking and, in our view, there is an opportunity to do so in a positive way for everyone. All too often, in this case, the interests of the royal family are opposed to the legitimate interests of the citizens. There is a real opportunity here to do so positively, whether for the five years of rule or for the 21st of July. It doesn't matter what the occasion is. There is a way for the royal family, too, to make it an opportunity for everyone to win. That's what environmentalists want. That is why we will be constructive on this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-24-54-commissie-ic674x.u17	Mr President, I also thank the Minister. If we could be in possession of this before 21 July, we could have a debate in Parliament and make a good announcement. The five years of the reign will take place in 2018, so we have a year to negotiate, which I think is enough. I have heard that you support this view and I hope that the entire federal government will support it if there are legal openings. I believe that security must be guaranteed and we can guarantee it today. It's not because we're opening a part of the park that we can't guarantee it tomorrow.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-24-54-commissie-ic674x.u18	Minister, last January, the College of the Environment of the Brussels-Capital Region decided to cancel the environmental permit that had been issued in May 2016 to the Régie des Bâtiments pour le Palais de Justice in Brussels. This decision followed an action brought by the Collège de la Ville de Bruxelles which challenged the continued operation of open parking spaces in front of the main entrance of the building, as well as the ramps which allow access from the Marolles district. In this regard, the College would like to see negotiations opened with the Régie des Bâtiments, but also with the SPF Justice, in order to find a constructive and lasting solution. As you know, we have already questioned this issue several times in this House, especially in order to highlight the need to change the issue of the redevelopment of the courthouse. In this regard, you strongly demonstrated the government's willingness to move forward on this issue, including the announcement of a master plan project last October, in collaboration with your colleague, Minister of Justice Koen Geens. What exactly is the situation on this file to date? What is the status of the masterplan for the courthouse and its surroundings? What time frame can be reasonably foreseen for its adoption?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-24-54-commissie-ic674x.u19	Minister, Le Vif/L'Express, in its May 5 issue, addresses the management of public buildings and, in particular, the new approach of the Régie des Bâtiments to the standard of occupation imposed on federal public servants. The aim of the Régie des Bâtiments is twofold: on the one hand, to reduce the working space per official in order to resell the surplus of public buildings and, on the other hand, to provide resources for the renovation and maintenance of what the owner of the Régie des Bâtiments calls "family jewels", i.e. museums, courthouses or prestigious properties. Speaking of the courthouse, his condition has been asking questions for many years now. I have always known the courthouse with its scaffolding (by the way, visual detail), even when I was a trainee lawyer. What is the status of the renovation project for the Brussels courthouse? Is a feasibility study still under way? Has a comprehensive plan been developed? Is the project carried out in consultation with the relevant regional and municipal authorities? Can you give us the schedule of work? Is the 2028 target still relevant? It's strange to talk about news for an event scheduled for 2028! Which jurisdictions would be established in the palace? Will you retain only the correctional chambers? Is the "Box in the box" project of refurbishing four courtrooms still relevant?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-24-54-commissie-ic674x.u20	I will start with the current situation, after the environmental permit has been cancelled. The decision to cancel the environmental permit, issued on January 16, 2017, is based on the delay in issuing this permit. According to the opinion given by the College of the Environment, the IBGE (Brussels Institute for Environmental Management) which should have submitted its opinion on 18 May 2016 did not deliver it until 25 May 2016. This is due to the fact that the IBGE has 450 calendar days between the designation of the Impact Review Officer and the decision on the permit application. This cancellation of the environmental permit has, for the moment, no impact on the masterplan project. Since the substance of the permit decision was not attacked, but only the form, the elements for starting a possible discussion with the City of Brussels were not defined. With regard to the overall project of the courthouse, I have already replied several times in this committee. I will, however, take up the elements of this because it is an important project. The schedule is as follows. The publication of the market for the designation of a study team for the restoration of facades is scheduled for mid-2017, so in the coming weeks. A publication was published to designate a team of surveyors for the overall measurement of the building. The analysis of offers is under way. At the same time, the "Box in the box" project will be relaunched. The upgrade of the four courtrooms in an inner courtyard will be carried out with a view to achieving greater security, which is not possible in the current infrastructure. The solution chosen is to create the new rooms as a new box inside the old box of the old palace, hence the name "Box in the box". The file has just been published on 4 May. The aim is to award this contract again this year. The development of the vision for the entire site was described in the decision of the Council of Ministers of 9 December 2016. This document is entitled "Vision note for a more secure accommodation of judicial services in the vicinity of Poelaert campus: evaluation, progress and adaptation". The further elaboration of this decision by the SPF Justice and the Régie des Bâtiments takes place during the monthly task forces between these administrations. The planned work will follow the following timing. First, secure entry will be implemented this year and next year. In 2017 and 2018 the complete survey of the building will take place. Work on the "Box in the box" project is planned for 2018. The study for the restoration of facades will be carried out between 2017 and 2024, one year per facade. The restoration of each facade will begin after its study. We will not wait until the end of all the studies to begin. Study for the restoration of facades: 2017-2024; restoration of facades: 2020 to 2028. Given the extent of the studies and the work, it is planned to divide the restoration of the facades of the Brussels courthouse into four distinct phases and slices, as I explained. The first part will concern, among other things, the Poelaert facade: the study will have to start at the end of 2017 and the work is expected to be completed at the beginning of 2021. After the successful completion of the first phase, we will begin the various conditional tranches, one after the other, to complete the work at the end of 2026. There is also restoration and redevelopment work, and at the same time the most urgent maintenance and restoration work. Which jurisdictions would be established in the palace? All existing courts, including the correctional chain, would be established in the palace. Only the restaurant, which depends on the FPS Justice, and the exhibits will leave the building. It is absurd to have so much free space. The space devoted to the exhibits that I visited is incredible. And we rent expensive buildings around the courthouse! It's an absurdity that I don't understand. We're going to regroup justice services as much as possible in the courthouse. The idea of making this place a commercial place, a tourist or what I still know is totally abandoned. We're gonna book the courthouse for justice.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-24-54-commissie-ic674x.u21	Thank you, Deputy Prime Minister, for this comprehensive and encouraging response, although the deadlines are still relatively long. There is still work to be done, but, as my colleague said, it is a symbolic dossier. It is a jewel of the state but it is also the symbol of one of the powers, namely justice which, through this courthouse in Brussels, is represented. I think it is positive that you have put in place this masterplan which allows you to have an evolution and an overall evaluation of this flagship building. I note that you wish to reintroduce all the functions of justice within the palace. You have already stated this on several occasions, but I appreciate that you confirm that the project of a shopping centre or a showroom is completely abandoned. I think that reassures many justice professionals. For more than thirty years now we have seen scaffolding in this building. It is encouraging to know that they will be phased out. Starting with Poelaert Square seems to me to be the best symbolic approach. We will follow very carefully the development of the file, hoping that the timing will be respected.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-24-54-commissie-ic674x.u22	Minister, I am not going to repeat what Mr Calomne has just said. Your answer contains several positive aspects. It is necessary to move forward, especially since the building in question is truly splendid. We have only known him in the works. You must have read the post written last week by a judge who painted the portrait of the courthouse in Brussels. It was a quick trait, but it is sad to leave such a building behind, which also has problems of humidity to deal with as a matter of urgency. Otherwise, the situation may get worse. I am pleased to hear that all judicial functions will be reinstated. In symbolic terms, the Brussels people must be proud to have a building of this magnitude. Of course, the means must be put in place to maintain and complete the work. I hope that when I'm 50, I will be able to contemplate beautiful facades!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-24-54-commissie-ic674x.u23	We'll have to wait a long time!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-24-54-commissie-ic674x.u24	Do the math: in 2028, I should be 50! I know lawyers have a reputation for not being able to count too much, but...
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-24-54-commissie-ic674x.u25	Everything's relative!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-24-54-commissie-ic674x.u26	Deputy Prime Minister, in April 2016, I asked you about the situation of the buildings that house the Royal Museums of Fine Arts of Belgium (MRBAB), located in Brussels, following water infiltrations that had damaged the ceilings and walls to the heart of some exhibition halls. At the time, you spoke reassuringly and convincingly, including by confirming the mobilization of your services to perform emergency repairs. In addition, you highlighted the intensive collaboration between your firm and the Secretary of State for Science Policy to define and implement all the relevant measures in this case. Subsequently, in May 2016, we had confirmation of the adoption of a master plan by the federal government, for a total budget of 145 million euros. This amount has been earmarked to renovate various museums, including those on the Cinquantenaire plateau, but also the Royal Museums of Fine Arts, located on Rue de la Régence. Since the period has already passed, could you provide us with an up-to-date assessment of this project? What are the results already achieved on the ground through the means deployed by the government? What is the planned schedule of operations for the coming months?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-24-54-commissie-ic674x.u27	Minister, I am not going to repeat what Mr Calomne said. The decision of the Council of Ministers is to invest EUR 35.9 million in these buildings, but in reality EUR 30 million comes directly from Beliris. Beliris called this into question. Although we used this practice when we were part of the government, I want the Régie des Bâtiments not to rely solely on Beliris for the renovation of the buildings. Other cities invest directly, without going through a third. How are the various construction sites launched by the Régie des Bâtiments in order to carry out the renovations? Could you provide information on the progress of the budget plan? When will this work be completed?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-24-54-commissie-ic674x.u28	Mrs Lalieux, I still want to remind you that Beliris is also federal money that we manage together with the Brussels Region, but we are talking about federal money, our budget, to be found and financed by us, by savings and not by taxes! I still want to remind you. The whole of the work is a considerable list which I could list here, but which I prefer to provide to you because this list includes the various works, their respective amounts and their scheduling. It seems to me more useful to give you a summary and to give you the list of work. The works in progress and those to be launched in 2017 and 2018, worth more than €43 million, are part of the larger masterplan. These include works at the Museums of Fine Arts, the Mont des Arts site, the Royal Museums of Art and History, the Museum of the Army, the Porte de Hal Museum and finally, the site of the 50th Anniversary. I'll give you the list, but maybe I can already tell you that at the Museums of Fine Arts, we're talking about 3.8 million. For the Mont des Arts site, we are also talking about 3.8 million. At the Royal Museums of Art and History, we are talking about 15.5 million. At the Army Museum, we're talking about 6.5 million. For the Cinquantenaire site, we're talking about 11.6 million. At the Hal Gate Museum, we're talking about 860,000 euros. This makes a total of more than €42 million. You have all the details on the list.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-24-54-commissie-ic674x.u29	I thank the Deputy Prime Minister for his answer and the figures he has given us. I will be aware of this earlier and will come back to him if I want further information.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-24-54-commissie-ic674x.u30	Mr Minister, Beliris' money is actually in the federal government. My view is that the Régie des Bâtiments, as it does for other cities, must also invest in the buildings that are located in the Brussels Region. It is not only necessary to rest on Beliris to do this. We have seen this in the context of the transfer for the Conservatory: the federal state and the budget of the Régie must intervene for the Brussels buildings. We must find a balance, knowing that Beliris must invest in Brussels in parallel. I also believe that the change of Secretary of State will probably ensure that our museums will be better guaranteed and loved than under the previous Secretary of State. Indeed, Mrs Demir seems to be more involved in this scientific and museum policy. I believe that commitments will be made in this regard and that negotiations will be implemented with the Régie.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-24-54-commissie-ic674x.u31	Mr Minister, I would be remiss if I did not come back to you on the issue of Haren prison, which has been discussed on numerous occasions in this committee over the last two years, as well as on the presentation of the general policy notes concerning the Régie des Bâtiments. Every time there are new elements. That's why we come back to you with new questions. As I said last time, the file is moving forward, but not in the sense that Ecolo-Groen wants. As you know, we've been against the project from the beginning. I wanted to ask you about the latest developments in the case. On 23 December last, the Brussels government approved the decree abolishing and modifying the vicinal paths passing on the grounds of the future Haren prison. As a result of this decision, the regional delegate was able to issue the town planning permit to the consortium Cafasso, designated for the construction of the Haren prison. At that time, the environmental permit had still not been issued. Last March, Brussels' Environment Minister Céline Fremault, supported by the Brussels government as a whole, decided to issue the environmental permit to the Cafasso consortium. As a result, since last March, the proponent who is to build the facility has had environmental and urban permits. As you had always stated that the contract would be signed when all permits were issued, I come back to you with the following questions, as these conditions are now met. When will the contract between the Régie des Bâtiments and the consortium Cafasso be signed? Once you have signed it, will you make it available, as you have committed yourself, to the members of Parliament and to this committee in particular? How long will the work begin and how long will it take? We have heard several versions in this regard and would like to see more clarity on your part.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-24-54-commissie-ic674x.u32	Deputy Prime Minister, the provisions of the masterplan for prisons are beginning to take shape in Brussels. With the latter, the government is pursuing its policy of reducing prison overcrowding, but also of renovating prison infrastructure. The Haren complex is part of this logic. The progress towards its construction is now visible. Town planning and, more recently, environmental permits have been issued to the Cafasso consortium responsible for construction. The building will soon be able to accommodate 1,190 inmates, divided into several entities. Three men's prisons, two women's prisons, a psychiatric centre and a youth institution will be built. However, the contract with the Régie des Bâtiments does not yet appear to have been signed. Deputy Prime Minister, are you able to tell us when the contract between the Régie des Bâtiments and the consortium Cafasso will be signed? Is a date for the start of work already planned? How long will they last? Is an assessment of the announced duration of the project on the agenda? What would be the amount of compensation to be paid to the consortium in the event of failure to perform this contract, even if I believe it will indeed be carried out? When will the Haren complex be posted on the site of the Régie des Bâtiments? What information will be provided, with a view to transparency with regard to citizens who may be interested in this issue?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-24-54-commissie-ic674x.u33	As mentioned above, the contract between the Régie des Bâtiments and the Cafasso consortium could only be signed after all urban and environmental permits had been issued. It's been the case lately. However, to date, various remedies have been brought against the permits granted. In addition, certain tasks preliminary to the conclusion of the contract – request for advice from the Institute of National Accounts, award decision, organisation of financing, etc. – still have to be completed before the contract is signed. The proposal for an allocation decision will be submitted to the Council of Ministers for approval before the next parliamentary holidays. So we're in the final phase. The work, which will last 32 months, will begin as soon as legal and technical circumstances permit. The amount of compensation depends on two factors: the actual date of the shutdown and whether or not the award was made before the project was terminated. It is therefore impossible for me to provide you with an amount because the award has not yet been executed. To date, no compensation has been paid to the preferential bidder. The Haren prison project will be presented on the Régie's website in the same way as other prisons. The draft contract also contains a confidentiality clause prohibiting parties from disclosing its contents.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-24-54-commissie-ic674x.u34	Thank you for that information, Minister. What interests us, in order to continue the debate, is to see the contract, to have details of the compensation that will have been paid or not. This project is gradually being implemented, even if appeals have been brought. Much can be said about the debate about Haren prison in Brussels, but it is difficult to argue that this prison is in line with a reduction in the total number of prisoners, given that there are 1,100 prisoners in Haren, which is much more than the number of detainees in Forest and Saint-Gilles. Here, we are moving towards a mega-imprisonment that will increase the current prison capacity, not a decrease in the number of prisoners in our prisons. I will give you an appointment before 21 July to continue the debate!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-24-54-commissie-ic674x.u35	Mr President, in response to my colleague, I have spoken about reducing prison overcrowding. Minister, thank you for your answers. Even if the case went through a few peripests, we're moving forward. You mentioned a date of signature before the parliamentary holidays. So it's very concrete! I take note of the thirty-two months that you are announcing for the duration of the work. It is also an important element, hoping that the deadline can be kept.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-24-54-commissie-ic674x.u36	Mr President, Minister, I wanted to come back to you about the construction of a Finance Administrative Centre in Philippeville, a district capital you know, I think. It's an old case. I think he was initiated by Mr Maystadt, that is to say, if this case is old! In any case, it was in the last century. The idea was initially to bring together various FPS Finance services located in Philippeville and the region. These services sometimes rented buildings in very poor condition and also welcomed citizens in very poor conditions. This project has taken its course. He's had a lot of trouble. It has also been reduced over time. Under the previous legislature, Mr. Verherstraeten confirmed a construction project on the former site of the barracks in Philippeville that had been ceded by the City at the time. He also referred to the fact that justice of the peace, located on Philippeville Square in a building classified but inaccessible to persons with reduced mobility, was added to that building. It's been a few years now and that's the last answer I've had on the subject. I believe that the subject has evolved because, in fact, the Régie des Bâtiments owns another land elsewhere in Philippeville. Minister, do you confirm to me the principle of construction either only for the FPS Finances or jointly with the FPS Justice in Philippeville? This is my first question, a question of confirmation or infirmation. Could a project finally come into being? It's kind of like my colleague Özen's question. In that case, maybe we'll meet in ten years or in five, I don't know exactly! If the answer is positive, what would be the number of staff on this site? What would be the location? What is the administrative stage of the file? Is this a preliminary project? A sketch? Or are we already further, at the stage of a planning permit or otherwise? What would be the possible timetable? What would be the useful surface area of this building for one or two federal government departments? What would be the amount of the investment, even approximate? Has there been any consultation with the City of Philippeville? These are my specific questions, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-24-54-commissie-ic674x.u37	Mr Delizée, specific questions deserve specific answers. The project to build a building bringing together the services of the SPF Finances of Philippeville and the justice of peace of Philippeville, Florenne, Walcourt and Couvin, is on the table. Nevertheless, a real estate prospect was requested in parallel with Philippeville, to ensure that there is no possibility of rehousing more advantageous for the federal state, with a faster availability. The needs program validated by the Finance Inspectorate of the FPS Finances for the implementation of Philippeville is 794 m2 net for about 40 agents. The FPS Justice needs program would be 473 m2 for 11 full-time equivalents. We are waiting to receive the official version approved by the Finance Inspectorate. The complex is considered on the site of the former military barracks, rue de la Roche. Once the final implementation is complete, a division plan will be established and the surplus land will be resold. The file is at the sketch stage. With both federal utilities, the project has an area of approximately 1,800 m2 in gross area. As the land envisaged for the construction of the new building is part of the former military site, preliminary excavations, orchestrated by the Department of Archaeology of the Wallonia Public Service (SPW), will have to be carried out and will allow to specify the presence of archaeological remains and the possibility of a cellar level in the building. This search campaign is expected to take place in the second half of 2017. The Régie des Bâtiments is therefore dependent on the availability of the Department of Heritage. The pre-project file could be completed by early 2018. The project dossier for obtaining the town planning permit, the drafting of the specifications, the publication and the tender could be considered in the second half of 2018. Commitment and commencement of work could be considered in 2019. The estimate is EUR 3.5 million. Work could be initiated on the 2019 budget of the Régie des Bâtiments. The commune of Philippeville was informed of the will of the Régie des Bâtiments to build a new building in its territory.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-24-54-commissie-ic674x.u38	Mr. Chair, Minister, thank you for your specific answers. Can I ask you to give me your written answer because you have quoted a lot of figures? Having said that, I am pleased that the Régie des Bâtiments is now in a concrete phase to bring these different services together. This is indeed an investment for the future that will avoid rentals and make things much more operational and functional than they are today. I also note that an implicit decision to bring justices of peace back to the district capital has been taken. As you know, even if it is your Justice colleague who has jurisdiction in this matter, Philippeville's justice of the peace has been abolished. She is now in Couvin. I'm glad you gave me a schedule. This will allow me to follow the file. In any event, the realization of the project in question is a good thing for the Philippeville region.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-24-54-commissie-ic674x.u39	Mr President, Minister, I am asking this question in response to a press article entitled "The Police Museum Victims of Disinterest". I said to myself that the Minister of the Interior cannot stand by in the face of this situation. So I decided to question you. According to this article, the curator of this museum left his post to endorse others. A federal team now manages the Police Museum, the former library and events. Suffice it to say that the time devoted to the museum is reduced while the preservation of important pieces should tend to professionalize. Arbitration between enthusiasts and discipline professionals is not simple. If we listen to the unions, the CGSP for the police sector says: "Buildings are deteriorating from day to day and collections sheltered in the affected premises are likely to suffer the dreads of time, both clean and figurative, as it rains in the building". The union is particularly concerned about the process of evacuating the museum in the event of a fire: "Imagine a group of elderly people visiting when a fire breaks out. They are obliged to evacuate the building by a rudimentary outside ladder. If people arrive at the bottom safely, they still have to cross a metal barrier one metre high. In short, they have every chance of dying in the fire. When we know that the building, which belongs to the Régie, does not have the ad hoc safety pictograms, has no fire file or fire service in order, it really worries." On the police side, it is explained that we are aware of the problem and we guarantee that significant investments will soon be made. In the meantime, dangerous buildings, which are usually not accessible to the public, are also prohibited for federal personnel. Minister, do you confirm this information? What about the renovation and security of the premises? How long are the operations planned? What budgets are available? Are there other avenues for solution? What are you planning to do to reinvigorate in the long term this museum, whose active volunteers are demotivated by the difficult working conditions and the lack of interest in safeguarding their heritage?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-24-54-commissie-ic674x.u40	Mr Kir, I would like to reassure you that the museum has always been managed by a team, not just the curator, in order to ensure dynamic management. The new approach envisages resuming missions directly related to document management for the installation of a reading room, which will be integrated into the museum as a new feature. As for the building itself, a distinction should be made between the museum itself and the hangar and the site, which is mainly intended for the storage of event material. It is mainly within the latter part that the majority of problems arise and, to a lesser extent, within the museum itself. Finally, on this first point, I would like to correct your quotation. Indeed, you refer to the response of the union representative of the federal police referring to important investments. However, this statement is incorrect, although it has been indicated that investments would be made, but at no time has it been specified that they would be significant. With regard to your second question, priority is currently being given to solving the targeted problems, which will ensure safety, in particular in terms of fire prevention, and the well-being of staff members, as well as active volunteers and visitors to the museum. Several interventions will also be planned for the hangars and will be more significant in the light of the problems identified. To this end, the federal police and the Régie, which is the federal government's heritage infrastructure manager, will work closely together. At this stage, I cannot commit myself in terms of specific deadlines or budgets. It will be up to the administrations to carry out the ad hoc studies and to plan for their implementation. I do not agree with your assertion that there is little interest in safeguarding the heritage. The proposed revitalization is based on a qualitative assessment of the management of the museum and collections, the creation of synergies with the Documentation Centre and other associations, as well as the development of better communication – especially digital – for the organisation and promotion of events related to police and security topics within the museum. Collaboration with active museum volunteers will be an asset in this new approach.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-24-54-commissie-ic674x.u41	Minister, thank you for your answer. I would like to return to the issue of fire. We're talking about the absence of a fire file or a fire department that wouldn't be in order. I would like to raise the minister's awareness of this. I understand that you are waiting for a report on the concrete situation and that interventions will be planned afterwards. But when it comes to building security – I do not have to tell you, as Minister of the Interior – it is the priority. I invite you to worry about it. For the rest, I have heard the answers and am in part reassured about the museum part of the hangar. I'll be back in the next few weeks to get more information on building security.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-24-54-commissie-ic674x.u42	Mr President, Minister, this issue remains an existing one today. Although asbestos is no longer marketed in Belgium, it is still present in many places. Also, within the framework of the powers that you exercise, both as Minister of Security and Interior and as Minister responsible for the Régie des Bâtiments, I wanted to take stock with you. Minister, is there a cadastre of asbestos in buildings for which you have direct or indirect responsibility? Is this cadastre available? Are specific measures taken to protect against asbestos for workers working in buildings or on construction sites for which you are responsible? The effectiveness of protective measures is not always guaranteed on the site.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-24-54-commissie-ic674x.u43	Mr. President, Minister, my questions are identical and relate to all the buildings managed by the Régie des Bâtiments. We know that there must be an inventory, we know that there must be protection of workers in these buildings, and we know that asbestos is everywhere, because we wanted to protect ourselves from fires. After the anniversary of the Innovation Fire, we remember that this deadly substance invaded all of our buildings. Minister, is there a cadastre of asbestos in public buildings? With regard to protection measures, are there any detailed measures? Is there any control over how they are respected? As I told the Minister of Employment, very good brochures were published in 2006-2007 to help identify asbestos and explain the treatment. I would like to know whether these brochures are known, distributed and used in the premises where the buildings are managed and to the various employers. Do you know these brochures?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-24-54-commissie-ic674x.u44	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, there is indeed a cadastre of asbestos in the buildings for which we are responsible. When adaptations are made to equipment that has an impact on this cadastre, we update the data from this inventory. The Asbestos Information System (AIS) database covers all asbestos sites in the buildings we manage. Asbestos inventories are available through our "Hydra" database. Clients of the Régie des Bâtiments can access it. Our standard specification contains, in its administrative part, specific provisions in the event of asbestos being discovered on a site. Positions to be justified are provided for in the technical parts of our standard specifications. In addition, a specific budget, including fees, is provided for in the budget of the Régie des Bâtiments and is included in its Article 536.10, sanitation works in buildings where asbestos has been found. This budget amounts to €506,000 for 2017. With regard to the brochures you mentioned, I confess that I do not know about them, but I could ask myself and send you the answer in writing.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-24-54-commissie-ic674x.u45	Minister, thank you for your answer. As I understand it, this cadastre database is not available at the public level. Could we dispose of it here in Parliament? I believe that would be useful in terms of the transparency of documents. In addition, I have noted the amount of 506,000 euros included in the budget for 2017. I assume that this is not a one shot operation but a multi-annual one. I plead for complete asbestos removal. Given the stakes and the age of some buildings, it would be wise to give ourselves the means to achieve such a goal. Finally, I would stress your responsibilities, as the minister in charge of the Régie des Bâtiments, to ensure the mandatory implementation of the protective measures. Thus, when using subcontractors, it is astounding to find that they are even less applied than they are usually.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-24-54-commissie-ic674x.u46	Minister, my reply will be of the same order. I would be interested to learn about this cadastre or, at least, this inventory, as well as to examine the suggested procedures. I would point out that construction workers are not always sufficiently protected and informed. It is therefore important to be proactive towards them. Furthermore, I know that there are different procedures depending on the part of the building where the asbestos is located and the type of work that will be undertaken: will we decombust, isolate or neutralise? Are these procedures communicated on the site or are they reserved for those submitting a service offer?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-24-54-commissie-ic674x.u47	I would like to add some additional elements. All hazardous sites have been disposed of. If there's asbestos in a building and you don't touch it, it's not dangerous. It becomes a danger when you manipulate it. Specific procedures for the removal of asbestos are laid down in each specification. I have no problem communicating this inventory of our buildings to you. I'll check with my staff on how we can proceed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-24-54-commissie-ic674x.u48	Minister, I am aware that there is an exhibition when you intervene directly on asbestos. I still think that we will have to ensure that asbestos is removed in the medium and long term. This will be unavoidable, and not only in public buildings!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-24-54-commissie-ic674x.u49	Mr Minister, the purpose of my question is above all to avoid wasting money. In 2006, the Belgian State sold buildings including the WTC III building, which was subsequently re-owned. More or less five years ago, this building was completely renovated. Important work has been done: the entire interior of the building was removed before being completely rebuilt. In addition, electrical and computer work has been carried out. The wiring was placed in the false ceiling and columns connect it to the ground with six electrical sockets and six computer sockets. This work is therefore important. It comes to my mind that the Strategy and Support SPF – the BOSA – should come to this building after the transfer of the Academy of Finance, where it should occupy about ten floors. However, the BOSA, I am told, has requirements. Indeed, it would refuse the system of columns for electrical and computer power supply and would require a supply from the ground. In order to meet this requirement, all interior walls, the false ceiling, the floor covering, part of the chape should be removed for the installation of the sheaths and the restoration of the premises. Of course, all this work will result in extremely high costs. I would therefore like to know what progress has been made on this matter, Minister. I imagine you're aware of these requirements of the BOSA. I would like to know whether you are measuring the very high cost of this type of work, and above all, I would like to know your opinion on the appropriateness of doing all this work again even though the building has just been renovated. Finally, should this decision be referred to the Council of Ministers or do you have full competence to decide on this matter?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-24-54-commissie-ic674x.u50	Mrs Fonck, first of all, it is necessary to set the context for the BOSA approach. On 9 December 2016, the Council of Ministers approved the construction of the new Strategy and Support SPF, the BOSA, and its consolidation into the WTC III. In the note to the Council of Ministers of 12 May 2017, the Régie des Bâtiments presented its multi-year occupancy plan for the Brussels Region, phase 1bis, a proposal for consolidation following the monitoring of occupation. In the introduction of this note, the said constitution of the said BOSA, to be incorporated into the WTC III, was well taken over. To focus on your questioning, this is a partitioned building during its renovation for the needs of conventional offices, completed before new standards approved in June 2012. This new work would significantly increase the occupancy density of the building and increase its flexibility over time, in order to avoid significant costs at a later stage. In conclusion, the concepts of working environment new ways of working allow substantial savings to be made in terms of rents but require initial investments to allow the long-term flexibilisation of the buildings concerned. The decision is made to implement P&O and the budget in WTC III. The creation of the BOSA, however, requires, if we want to be able to integrate all these entities into this tower, to necessarily go through the new ways of working. It therefore requires an investment. The final decision has yet to be taken by the Council of Ministers before the next parliamentary holidays.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-24-54-commissie-ic674x.u51	Thank you, Deputy Prime Minister. I have no concern about the fact that we are making economies of scale on rents and that we are affecting, in the most relevant way possible, the different rental of buildings. We're not going back to the original story. On the other hand, what I point out here in this case – it's obviously on this issue that I still want to be careful that money is invested where it needs to be invested – is that there is work and work. Of course, when a whole new service arrives, there is probably work that needs to be done, but from there everything that has been done about large works (electricity, computer, wiring, ceilings, etc.) has to be completely done.While all this was achieved five years ago, let me ask myself about the proper management of public resources. On this point, I would like to ask, since the dossier has yet to be referred to the Council of Ministers, that it be possible to clearly justify only relevant work and not to repeat work which has just been carried out at very high costs and which, for me, could indeed constitute mismanagement and misuse of public funds.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-24-54-commissie-ic674x.u52	Deputy Prime Minister, in August 2016 the Brussels-Energy urban heat network was put into operation. Energy is produced by the incineration of non-recyclable household or similar waste. District heating is of environmental interest thanks to reduced and therefore less polluting fossil energy consumption. In addition, there is also an economic interest, as consumers benefit from a positive economic performance thanks to this heat network. It comes to my mind that the Régie des Bâtiments has shown itself in order to connect the royal estate of Laeken to the Brussels-Energy network. Indeed, it fulfils the conditions in terms of distance and annual heat consumption to be integrated into this network. This request from the federal agency would have received a favourable response and the royal domain would now be linked to Brussels district heating. Of course, I welcome this initiative, demonstrating that the Régie des Bâtiments is working to ensure that the environment is respected and protected. Mr Deputy Prime Minister, what is the status of the connection of the Laeken royal estate to the Brussels-Energy urban heat network? Does the Régie des Bâtiments plan to integrate other public buildings into this network? What, if any, and by what date?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-24-54-commissie-ic674x.u53	The current status of the dossier relating to the connection of the Laeken royal estate to the Brussels-Energy urban heat network is as follows. On Friday, 20 January 2017, the Council of Ministers gave a favourable opinion on the launch of the public procurements necessary for the supply of thermal energy for the heating of the buildings of the Royal Laeken estate. The public market for the supply of heat was launched in May 2017. The Régie des Bâtiments is waiting for an offer to start negotiations on technical, legal and financial aspects. After negotiation and approval of the contract, the work necessary for the installation of this branch of the network will be able to start, and the Régie des Bâtiments will have the necessary adaptations carried out to the various boiler plants in the domain. In view of the work required, the actual supply of heat by the network is planned at the earliest for the winter 2018-2019. This operation is part of the Régie des Bâtiments' environmental strategy of reducing energy consumption in federal public buildings, rationalizing operating costs and reducing the costs of carrying out these projects. This project will reduce CO2 emissions by 2,700 tonnes per year. At present, no other public buildings are envisaged for a potential connection to this network.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-24-54-commissie-ic674x.u54	Minister, thank you for your answer. I have taken note of the various elements related to the deadline that you have communicated to us. If I have noted correctly, the public procurement has just been launched, and it is hoped that the system will be put into operation in 2018-2019. This is obviously a positive environmental development where governments may have an exemplary role to play. One can see that this is the case here in the head of the Régie des Bâtiments. But it is also a positive economic development, since it will allow economies of scale, which I can only rejoice at. Budget cuts are public money to spend less for this type of fee. Taxpayer's money is also preserved and I thank you for that. If the project is positive, I hope that other buildings will benefit from the same fate.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-24-54-commissie-ic674x.u55	Mr.President, Deputy Prime Minister, in April 2016, I asked you, along with the other federal museums, about the situation of the buildings of the Far East Museums, which house the Chinese Pavilion and the Japanese Tower, as well as the Japanese Art Museum. In this regard, you told me that the Régie des Bâtiments was working on a plan to restore the premises, which were still closed to the general public, and that the project could be carried out in successive phases during the years 2007 to 2019. A year has passed since that question. Have the renovations already been initiated? If so, can you provide me with the nature of the transactions, as well as the schedule for the next few months? Is the completion of the entire project by 2019 still on the agenda? With regard to the security of the premises, you also announced that a private company had been mandated to monitor the facilities. It is also required to report regularly to the Régie des Bâtiments. Regrettably, some degradation had taken place. Could the cases of vandalism be limited as a result of the evidence of the resurgence of incivilities? Are you satisfied with the record on this matter? Have any additional measures been adopted since then or will they be adopted if such problems are still to occur?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-24-54-commissie-ic674x.u56	Mr President, my colleague, for the Chinese Pavilion, the following renovations have been carried out: the dismantling of the ridge, the partial dismantling of the decorative panels of the bowlows and the installation of stowages of the latter, the installation of a security check on the site. For the work still to be done, a contract relating to a study mission for the urgent restoration of roofs, balconies, loggias, etc., including the Museum of Japanese Art; the kiosk, fence and entrance gate is being drafted. This study is expected to be allocated in 2018 to enable the work to be carried out from 2019 onwards. For the Japanese Tower, a study market for the repair of the porch is planned as well as a market for studies on the stability and safety of the tower. Both studies are expected to be launched in 2017. The work that will follow these studies will begin in 2018. A contract will be launched in 2018 to study the safety and urgent restoration of the walls of the cave in rock. We can confirm that a security contract has been concluded with the company Securitas. The latter regularly monitors the sites and sends daily reports. Thanks to this guarding, we have seen a decrease in vandalism in the last three months, which shows that the device is working. In addition, these sites were also secured through the placement of Heras metal fences.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-24-54-commissie-ic674x.u57	Minister, thank you for your comprehensive and accurate answers. With regard to the various files on which I asked you today, I am pleased to see that they are evolving positively. You are not a foreigner and the services of the Régie des Bâtiments are dynamic and active for the preservation and maintenance of these buildings. That is rather positive and it must be stressed. If you have the opportunity to convey this message to all the services working to improve the situation of these public buildings, I would be grateful if you would. On the question of vandalism, it is well known that the yards last a long time, that there are public and administrative procurement procedures to be followed. We must also be able to protect our heritage during these operations, and I am pleased to hear that the guarding system you have put in place has its effects. Acts of vandalism and incivility, which diminish the heritage value of these assets and result in renovation costs, have decreased. The accompanying measures for these projects are therefore positive. I wanted to conclude with this encouraging note.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-24-54-commissie-ic674x.u58	Questions Nos 16431 by Mr Gilkinet and 17369 by Mrs Lahaye-Battheu are converted into written questions. Questions Nos 17640 by Mr Brotcorne and 17761 by Mr Maingain lapsed. Debates of the European Parliament 17866 by Mrs Lahaye-Battheu is converted into a written question, along with questions Nos 17868 by Mrs Lalieux and 17970 by Mrs Poncelet.
