ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-19-54-commissie-ic787x.u1	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the TreinTramBus and Shuttles.be commuter associations published their own statistics on the punctuality of the main train lines on Thursday, 9 November 2017. The passenger associations representing many commuters have collected punctuality figures over the past 12 months, according to their own methodology, which is not to be confused with the methodology of SNCB or Infrabel that you know well. These associations believe that monthly publications are too aggregated and do not correspond to travellers' feelings. As a parliamentarian and commuter, I share this feeling. In addition, the methodological choices of the associations are based on the refusal of SNCB and Infrabel to cooperate. To date, SNCB and Infrabel have refused to make their detailed figures available, despite the written requests of Minister Galant in 2015 and yours in 2016. It's not nothing! Minister, the associations are ready to work together, but companies seem to block any attempt at discussion. Why do SNCB and Infrabel refuse to collaborate with these associations and share their data? What are their intentions for the future? How do you interpret this purpose of not receiving companies at the direct requests of their supervisory ministers, including you?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-19-54-commissie-ic787x.u2	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, punctuality is a top priority for the passenger using the train. This priority has to be devolved in a practical way within the two companies, SNCB and Infrabel. For the infrastructure manager and for SNCB, punctuality is one of the societal priorities, as I have pointed out several times very recently. Not long ago, I reminded both CEOs that I could no longer settle for findings, but that I expected strong results and actions. As such, I am attentive to the work of the shuttle associations that I received at my office very recently. In the coming weeks, at Infrabel and SNCB, all executives will be personally reminded of their obligations in relation to punctuality, in the framework of roadshows organised for this purpose. Infrabel and SNCB assure me that passenger associations are considered to be a leading partner. They inform me that round tables on the issue of punctuality are organized. During these exchanges, punctuality figures are analysed and calculation methods, as defined in the management contract, are explained. Other thematic round tables are also organized to explain phenomena that affect punctuality, such as cable theft or trespassing. From the last contacts, it is up to me that a meeting should be held with the associations that will present their detailed findings at the beginning of the year and that the subject of data collaboration will be on the agenda. As far as I am concerned, I reminded the two companies that I want to go beyond the stage of observation and that I want strong and vigorous action. I will no longer satisfy myself with simple surveys; a real strategy is needed to improve punctuality, alongside other data that are equally important, the first being security and then communication.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-19-54-commissie-ic787x.u3	Minister, thank you for your answer. I am sure that you are concerned about punctuality and that you have written to those responsible. You have also proposed the services of line managers, which we hope will lead to an improvement. It's about punctuality. That is not what I wanted to discuss today. I am pleased to hear that SNCB or Infrabel agrees to work with the associations. It's new and promising. We'll see what it's gonna give. What this is about is much more basic than that. This is no more or less the access to raw data from the beginning. As far as methodology is concerned, I have seen one or the other minister of the budget working in a graph on abscisse or orderlyness. I did Latin-maths. I'm from old school. All you have to do is frame it properly to make it look like a curve is moving towards a better one, while in fact, in reality, proportionally, when you zoom in or out, you get the opposite effect. This is an essential fact. It's access to raw data. I am not reassured from this point of view. I just hope that there will be an awareness - I say that for parliamentary annals - of any railway company. It is in their interest to make the raw data transparent. It's in their own interest, not just that of commuters. In fact, I am sure that an elder from the ENA shares this feeling that we must never be afraid of the real and the reality of the figures. But for that to happen, we must have access to it and I hope that one day we will have it.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-19-54-commissie-ic787x.u4	Mr President, we know that the question of the IPP is highly strategic in the context of the evolution of the ER dossier and the so-called maintenance and expansion of capacity. At the time of writing, the Board of Directors could not yet have approved the strategic investment plan, which is not the IPP but the IPP. As far as the PPI is concerned, according to the Dutch-speaking press, there is still disagreement between the Federal Government and the Flemish Government. This is quite common, as we can still see about the Energy Pact. Here, the dispute would relate to the allocation of EUR 370 million for Flanders through the "virtuous billion" since Minister Weyts demands to focus on the 11 railway priorities defined by the Flemish government. After a postponement of the decision, the press quotes the deadline of 20 December to try to unblock this file. This situation does not pose a problem in the short term, but Infrabel and SNCB are waiting to have a broader view of the investments. Minister, I wanted to know whether or not you were confirming the blockage, whether a solution could be found before the end of the year. Yesterday, Infrabel's board of directors apparently adopted the so-called PSPI strategic plan – we have to get used to acronyms. The press tells us that an agreement would have been reached on Infrabel's board of directors. If you have anything to do with this news, I'm also interested. On the other hand, one last element quoted by the press seems strange to me since we are talking about sending the text to the Council of State. It seems a little strange to me, but I would like to have your opinion. On the other hand, I am aware that you have started with the various cooperation agreements which are also part of the general package aimed at persevering the 'virtuous billion'.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-19-54-commissie-ic787x.u5	Dear colleague, your questions date from 21 November and the Flemish Region communicated its priorities for new railway infrastructure on 1 December. On December 14, the federal government agreed to these requests. The IPP and the PSPI – SNCB's Multi-Year Strategic Investment Plan – were approved by SNCB's Board of Directors on October 27. Infrabel's PPI was approved by its Board of Directors on April 30, 2017 and its PSPI on December 18, 2017, i.e. yesterday. I wanted the PSPI, the 'virtuous billion', to be sunk in a cooperation agreement since the cooperation agreement of 22 March 2002 was derogated from. I would remind you that it took six years to develop the latter. It has been more or less four months since we have been working on the PSPI and I hope that it will be completed before Christmas this year.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-19-54-commissie-ic787x.u6	Why the Council of State?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-19-54-commissie-ic787x.u7	It is important to know that cooperation agreements must be submitted to the four parliaments that will discuss them. It is a piece of legislation that looks like a piece of legislation because it is a law that will confirm it. We must therefore seek the opinion of the Council of State before the text is submitted to parliaments.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-19-54-commissie-ic787x.u8	Minister, thank you for your answer. To be precise, there are even several cooperation agreements, if I have understood correctly.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-19-54-commissie-ic787x.u9	Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, there are many questions on our agenda. I therefore ask you to abide by the Rules of Procedure. However, I give you the floor for a minute, Mr.Minister, before I ask Mr. Cheron to finish his reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-19-54-commissie-ic787x.u10	A cooperation agreement sets out all this as the 2002 cooperation agreement. Upstream, there is a four-party implementation cooperation agreement. This agreement was conceived during the sixth reform of the State. This is the first time such an agreement has been implemented. Below that, there are bilateral agreements on enforcement cooperation, also resulting from the sixth reform of the State, and even below, implementing agreements between the Regions and companies. We would like to present the package. I would remind you that six years were required for the 2002 agreement and a maximum of six months for all these agreements. I hope that we will find ourselves in the first blows of shovels when the spring frimas are gone.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-19-54-commissie-ic787x.u11	I thank the minister for his clarification. I can see more clearly. I have a better understanding of the coherence, the framework of the PSPI. I am struck by the date because, traditionally, the PPI spans two years, from 2018 to 2020, and the PSPI, from 2018 to 2031. I don't promise you my presence at the autumn 2031 frimas.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-19-54-commissie-ic787x.u12	Madam President, Minister, the press, of which we are sometimes too diligent readers, has reported resignations of train drivers, particularly in Charleroi – and I am talking about it all the more freely as I see Mr Massin marching. In question, competition with the private sector, which offers more attractive wage prospects than the SNCB. The names of the competitors have been mentioned, so I'm not going to do it here. Until recently, the specific status of SNCB workers gave certain advantages that could help keep them in the SNCB orb. The lengthening of careers and the questioning of certain social gains have led to the loss of some of its attractiveness to SNCB. Therefore, today, with an equivalent pension, young drivers choose a higher remuneration and seem to resign for these reasons. The training of a 200-day SNCB driver has a significant cost. This situation is very problematic for the public enterprise, which has invested in training and which sees the fruit of this work not only escape it, but move on to competition in a framework which I will not recall here, but which is that of the directives and therefore relates to a form of liberalisation. Minister, is the situation described in the Charleroi driver's cell similar elsewhere? What are the overall annual numbers of early departures or resignations of SNCB drivers from 2014 to 2017? Do you feel, possibly corroborated by figures, that there is a potential problem of shortage of drivers to be feared? What measures does SNCB intend to take to retain these drivers and ensure sustainability? The objective of the SNCB and its transport plan is an increase of 5.1% per year. This will require more rolling stock, more drivers and more efficiency than productivity.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-19-54-commissie-ic787x.u13	Mrs Grovonius, you have two questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-19-54-commissie-ic787x.u14	Madam President, it will be difficult for me to merge them. The first concerns the buy-back of railway workers' recovery days. This is a problem in its own right. Mr Minister, according to our information, SNCB would be preparing to pay for the credit days due to railway workers. The officers reportedly decided to pay the railway workers who had exceeded the authorized limit of credit days to be taken. As a reminder, these days of credit are actually days of recovery granted to railway workers because they perform more than the 36 hours of weekly work set. Each agent receives 13 credit days per year and could total a maximum of 35. But because of the workload, several railway workers have accumulated credit days (which are actually days of recovery or leave), exceeding the authorized maximum of 35 days. If they were to assert their rights to take these days off, rail service would be severely penalized. Hence the decision of the SNCB leaders to pay the surplus of credit days to the agents so that they do not take them and this, according to the spokesman, "in order to have sufficient staff to guarantee the ambition of the new transport plan 2017". Mr Minister, I would therefore like to ask you about this point. Can you, first of all, confirm this information to me? Was the decision taken in consultation with the trade unions? Will the redemption of recuperation days be imposed on staff who would rather keep days off? Do you not think that this is rather a chronic understaffing problem, not work organisation? Let me turn to my second question on the reduction of staff at SNCB. According to SNCB's new business plan, the company's staff should be reduced by 4,400 full-time equivalents (FTEs) by the end of 2022. According to the CGSP, it already weighs only 18,300 FTEs at the end of the year, compared to 20,628 in 2014. Departures should start from 2019. It will not, a priori, be a question of dry layoffs, but rather of non-replacements of retirements in corporate, administrative or production support services. The number of staff dependent on the operation and the rolling staff will be guaranteed a replacement of one for one. Minister, can you confirm this information? Are you not afraid of a shortage of staff for the practical operation of the railways? If we link up with my previous question, we see how acute the needs are. Finally, are comparable figures available for Infrabel?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-19-54-commissie-ic787x.u15	Madam President, Minister, I have a question on the same subject. SNCB's new business plan provides that the railway company intends to reduce the number of full-time equivalents from 20 628 in 2014 to 16 228 by the end of 2020. It is striking that this plan is accompanied by the announcement of large-scale rail recruitment. However, it is obvious that the natural evolution of the age pyramid of railway workers is being used for long-term efficiency gains. In the past decade, SNCB has paid the price for an intensive recruitment policy in the 1980s. It would be very unwise to repeat this historical error. Mr Minister, can you confirm SNCB's staff reduction plan with the figures we could read in the press? Can you confirm that the number of full-time equivalents for the driving staff remains the same, as stated in the notice? After all, it is important that sufficient staff remain in service, given the essential function of these staff. What retirement age is the SNCB plan based on for train escorts? How can the plan be realised in conjunction with previous commitments to raise the retirement age of train drivers to 57 years in 2018 and 63 years in 2030?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-19-54-commissie-ic787x.u16	Mr Devin, you have two questions that you can ask one after the other.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-19-54-commissie-ic787x.u17	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the infrastructure manager of the Belgian railway network Infrabel has organised several jobs days in order to renew its technical staff in Namur. As a result of this campaign, 48 new employees will join the company, while a total of 67 jobs were to be filled. Minister, can you give us more information about this recruitment campaign? Is another recruitment campaign being considered? If so, within what time frame? Let me turn to my second question. SNCB is a public company that employs several tens of thousands of people across the country. Can you tell us the total number of persons employed by SNCB through its HR Rail subsidiary at present? Can you give us the breakdown of these figures among the different subsidiaries of the group? Can you also provide us with the breakdown of these figures according to the different worker/employee/manager statuses in the two subsidiaries?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-19-54-commissie-ic787x.u18	Madam President, Minister, there are a lot of questions about the staff at SNCB. My question is not specifically about the reduction plan, but about the necessary recruitments, including to have sufficient train drivers and train supervisors. Madam President, I have converted a written question into an oral question. In my question, therefore, I ask for a lot of data. I propose that I refer to my written question and receive the answer in writing rather than having to go through all the figures orally.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-19-54-commissie-ic787x.u19	Mr. Hedebouw, you have three questions that you can ask in a row.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-19-54-commissie-ic787x.u20	Madam President, I will try a synthesis. The firm itself seems to link the issue of the too small number of train drivers to the reduction of staff. I think it's politically interesting to hear a firm make this kind of statement himself. Minister, SNCB's multi-annual investment plan envisages a major reduction in staff. The company plans a decrease of 20 628 full-time staff in 2014, thus before joining this government, to 16 228 full-time equivalents by 2020. At the same time, traffic is expected to increase by 1% per annum between 2018 and 2020. By 2022, 249,8 million passengers will be transported, an increase of 14.3 million compared to this year. In order to achieve this, a productivity increase of 4% per annum is expected from staff, also up to 2022. However, the staff has been making the same effort since 2014. The increasing workload may be one of the reasons why the company is suffering from a shortage of technical staff, in particular a shortage of train drivers. At the end of November it appeared that HR Rail had already employed only just over four fifths of the personnel to be recruited for SNCB in 2017. The 300 vacancies that have not yet been filled mainly concerned technicians, train supervisors and train drivers. For 2018 additional 300 train drivers should be sought. In reply to Mr Van Hees' question on 3 October, you pointed out the difficulty of recruiting such staff in certain regions of the country, given the high level of competition from other sectors. Given the long training these people need, it is crucial that recruitment takes place in good time. In addition, there would also be an increasing number of train drivers who resign. Mr Minister, can you tell us by professional category what evolution the train crew will be going through? Do you not expect an even greater outflow of mobile workers, given the productivity requirements and the choice this government makes for a worse employment status? Do you have any figures on the number of drivers who leave early, i.e. before they can take up their pension? Are there any indications as to why these drivers leave the company? Are there any initiatives on remuneration, status or the inclusion of leave days to prevent this outflow? How many train drivers should be recruited this year to meet the needs of SNCB? How many credit days are we talking about here in total? So how much is paid per extra hour? Which occupational categories are mainly covered here? What steps will be taken to ensure that staff do not accumulate overtime over and over again?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-19-54-commissie-ic787x.u21	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, HR Rail provided me with detailed figures on the number of workers on 1 December 2017 at SNCB, Infrabel and HR Rail. I'll give them to you. The 20 628 full-time equivalents that SNCB employed on 1 January 2014 will actually be reduced to 16 590 on 1 January 2023, as Ms Dutordoir recently declared according to her self-developed business plan. You heard that Mrs. Dutordoir called for autonomy. She has this autonomy. On 1 January, the number of workers will be 19,058 in order to comply with the 2016 social agreement. Its business plan takes into account the new transport plan and measures to increase productivity such as computerization. With regard to the digitalisation and automation of processes, SNCB informs me that as part of its digital roadmap, it has identified several concrete avenues for improvement. For example, SNCB is implementing the new staff and equipment rotation planning tool today. The aim is to make better use of the means of production. Another example of improvement is the modernisation of the communication tools available to rolling staff, i.e. drivers and train attendants. They need to have more modern communication devices and tools than their current means. The objective is clearly a wider, faster and certainly much more user-friendly dissemination than today. SNCB would like to point out that the implementation of these new digital tools is done in close collaboration with the actors in the field and not in isolation. SNCB wants to catch up with digitalisation both for employees and for its customers. A part of the workers who leave the pension will therefore not be replaced. The reduction in the number of full-time equivalents for the driving staff will be limited. The introduction of this new and integrated planning system will lead to a slight reduction in the need for mobile staff. SNCB has assumed a possible retirement of train escorts at 55 years, combined with a 30-year duty. As the number of full-time equivalents will not fall much, there is no inconsistency with a possible revision of pension conditions. In the period from 1 January 2017 to 31 October 2017, 272 drivers and 218 train escorts were recruited. The figures for drivers and escorts in service as of 1 October 2017 and operational requirements are attached. To work comfortably, a surplus of about 50 drivers and some 50 train drivers is recommended. For 2017, an outflow of 208 operational directors, including 90 French speakers and 118 Dutch speakers, was taken into account, approximately evenly spread over the year. And that, not to mention the departures of the drivers in training. The figures for resignations are also attached. Some figures are circulating; the exact emissions figures are 26 in 2014, 38 in 2015, 22 in 2016, 22 in 2017 and 70 are expected in 2018. SNCB is indeed expecting an increase in driver departures as a result of the increase in the number of voluntary resignations. However, pension departures will show a decrease. Since April 2016, a one-year notice period has been applicable. It is precisely because of the extension of this notice that no problems arise at present. In any event, SNCB wants to anticipate and look at measures to make train drivers more attractive, not only financially but also in terms of working conditions. SNCB informs me that Charleroi's situation is not typical of the country as a whole. Regional disparities exist. In the Charleroi region, which has a relatively high unemployment rate, SNCB is currently looking for 170 drivers and 119 train attendants. As far as Infrabel is concerned, there are currently 283 vacancies available for this year 2017, of which 167 are for technical profiles. From 2018 to 2020, 1 620 full-time equivalents will have to be recruited. In addition to the regular retraction process, Infrabel organized twelve Job Days in 2017. The selection procedure was greatly simplified and accelerated, allowing candidates to be recruited on the same day. So far, Infrabel has recruited more than 600 new employees in 2017, more than 300 of them through these Job Days. The retention of Infrabel's current staff is very high. Only 0.98% of Infrabel employees leave voluntarily, which is significantly lower than the benchmark in Belgium. Mr Hedebouw, you asked about the evolution of the various categories of staff. The railway companies are letting me know that they need time to do this. As soon as I get this information, I'll get them to you. SNCB takes numerous initiatives to encourage candidates for the profession of train driver, particularly in Flanders. SNCB works closely with HR Rail for this purpose. In addition to the usual image campaign with publications in newspapers, online newspapers and on social media, SNCB and HR Rail Job Days organise at various locations where train drivers are used as ambassadors, such as the Job Experience Day on 17 and 18 November 2017 at the stations Brussels-South and Antwerp-Central. The same ambassadors regularly participate in job fairs and school visits. The creation of a mobile train simulator brings added value to such events. The frequency of information sessions for the recruitment of train drivers was increased even more in Flanders. Potential candidates can now attend an information session at different locations and on different dates per month in the week and during the weekend. SNCB and HR Rail shall cooperate with the VDAB, which shall provide its premises for this purpose. In addition to the usual campaigns, SNCB and HR Rail will launch several further initiatives to attract new train drivers. A new Job Day by Flanders in the spring of 2018 is one of the possibilities. There is also a continuous improvement and adaptation of the website www.derailwayenwervenaan.be. SNCB and HR Rail together study the extent to which SNCB's working conditions for the train driver's job are still sufficiently attractive and market-oriented. As regards the redemption of recovery days, SNCB communicated its decision to the November Joint Sub-Committee. The buy-back of the days will not be imposed on staff; SNCB currently has the number of officers required to implement its transportation plan.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-19-54-commissie-ic787x.u22	Minister, thank you for your answer. I have spoken on the issue of drivers and will read with great interest the annex you have promised us.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-19-54-commissie-ic787x.u23	I also propose that you hand it over to the secretariat so that we can give all the figures to the committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-19-54-commissie-ic787x.u24	I am very collectivist and I like to share, more than some! Today, the point is to prevent SNCB from leaving too dangerous for it and to enable it to carry out its future tasks. Minister, I will pay particular attention to what you said when you said that the SNCB was looking at working conditions, that it was aware that this was a real subject, that it was responsible for the costs of training, and that it was legitimate for it to ensure, through various measures, that the staff trained at home continued their career there in order to fulfil the public service tasks essential for mobility.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-19-54-commissie-ic787x.u25	Madam President, I thank the Minister for these elements of the response. Of course, we will take a look at the figures with great interest. I continue to think - and I do not understand that the minister himself does not realize - that the situation of these credit days that are accumulating raises the issue of understaffing at the level of Infrabel and SNCB. I would like to draw attention to this issue in order to take more account of it. Indeed, there are people who, including in security functions, end up working much more than is allowed. Beyond the fact that it ends up disorganizing services because of the number of these too large credit days, it also raises huge security issues. I therefore call for some common sense in relation to this question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-19-54-commissie-ic787x.u26	Minister, I am concerned about part of your reply. After all, you answer that the reduction plan does not take into account the increase in the retirement age of train escorts. This, of course, explains a lot of the figures we have read in the press, together with the recruitments, which we also see through various channels. Ladies and gentlemen, it is cynical that, just today, when it is argued against an increase in the pensionable age, but for an increase in pensions, two things which are incompatible, we have to observe that the agreements concluded, which would also be implemented in the rail sector, are not taken into account by the companies themselves.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-19-54-commissie-ic787x.u27	Mr Minister, first of all, I would like to thank you for the figures you have given us, which we are obviously going to study closely. Having said that, you stated that Ms. Dutordoir had asked for autonomy and that she had had it. You said that when we had to explain that we were going from 20,000 to 16,000 full-time equivalents, as if Ms Dutordoir had decided to set aside 4000 jobs. It was, in any case, in this way that I perceived things. I would like to ask him about this, if it is necessary. In addition, you have distributed an annex. By going through it, we can see that, as you said, we went from 22 drivers' resignations in 2007 to 70 in 2018. It's really challenging. This represents more than 300 per cent. Something's happening. This is all the more challenging because SNCB and Infrabel do not recruit as many people as there are departures. You'll tell me that's normal since we're losing 4000 full-time jobs. But even in what is being offered today, taking into account these 4,000 full-time jobs, we are not yet recruiting enough. And you're saying we're going to increase productivity per person by 5%. It's a bit like the quadrature of the circle. The issue has already been discussed. I will not relaunch the debate now, but it is still very significant.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-19-54-commissie-ic787x.u28	Thank you, Minister, for the answers and the figures. My specific questions were even more detailed. I will submit them again in writing so that we can get the specific numbers. It is important to keep an eye on the availability of sufficient staff, i.e. drivers and train supervisors. After all, the essence of our railway company is that our trains run, and there must of course be sufficient staff available to do so. When I go over the figures, I notice that the number of departing train drivers has increased quite spectacularly. It is important to keep a close eye on the fact that the train drivers remain in sufficient numbers to ensure that SNCB's trains continue to be operated. So far, there have been a number of reservations. I assume that this debate will continue later.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-19-54-commissie-ic787x.u29	Minister, thank you for your answers. We will read very carefully the paintings we receive. Already, it seems to me that the projections for 2018 are quite alarming. There is clearly a problem. There is still a question of tripling the number of departures. I hear that the company is asking itself questions about the reasons for these departures. If I understand correctly, there is an opening to consider a debate on the benefits or not, of the profession. It's a really painful job. I can already give you two tracks on which to work: on the one hand remuneration, of course, and on the other hand, rest periods. Many train drivers complain about the great flexibility they need to demonstrate. Their work requires a great deal of concentration. Rest and recovery times are important. It is on this, precisely, that the pressure is put by the buy-back of credit days. It's the quadrature of the circle. The business plan is moving towards a 4% increase in productivity. This is huge, while it is a sector in which production technologies still have their limits. There is not a huge difference in the concentration of work between a driver today or 20 years ago. The train has to be driven anyway. These are not just machines that will produce more. It's another area. I don't think the lead is the right one. I hope that Mrs Dutordoir will return to her plans and make the train driver's profession more attractive by raising wages and rest periods.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-19-54-commissie-ic787x.u30	Mr Minister, I would like to get an update on the ongoing sale of Infrabel shipyard land at Drongen station. I have asked you questions about this in the past. Maybe there's no need to repeat everything. Neighborhood residents say that the works have long been finished and ask when the sales procedure will start. The yard land is no longer used and therefore they would like to see its sale start as promised. Mr President, can you confirm, first of all, that the work at the station, apart from the installation of the third and fourth tracks, has been fully completed? Secondly, did the land in question lie behind the Bieldekensstraat for Infrabel have another function in view of any other works? Thirdly, can you say in concrete terms when Infrabel will initiate the procedure for selling the land?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-19-54-commissie-ic787x.u31	Mrs Temmerman, the actual work at the Drongen station has been completed. However, Infrabel is in the process of equiping the new lines on the Gent-Landegem section with the necessary signalling devices. Those works, as previously reported, will be terminated at the earliest in the second semester of 2018. In addition, a fully-fledged exchange complex has to be installed in that section. In the latter phase, the yard land concerned will be used as a temporary storage site for rail equipment, such as switches and ballast. Therefore, the procedure for selling the land can only be initiated after the termination of those works and after the release of the land.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-19-54-commissie-ic787x.u32	Thank you, Minister, for your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-19-54-commissie-ic787x.u33	Minister, last month SNCB's board of directors approved a strategic plan. This would include EUR 800 000 for improvements to and at the Turnhout station. The local government has long been asking for an increase and hardening of platforms and better accessibility for wheelchair users. Can you confirm that EUR 800 000 of investment has been made available for work at the Turnhout station? What works will these resources be used for? What is the expected start and end date of the works? Will there be any further consultation with the local authorities?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-19-54-commissie-ic787x.u34	Mr Van Hecke, the railway companies have approved their multi-annual investment plans and their multi-annual strategic investment plans. These plans will soon be submitted to the Council of Ministers for approval. Once this has been done, we propose that companies should come forward with detailed proposals to the Infrastructure Committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-19-54-commissie-ic787x.u35	That is a very correct answer, but it seems that some people already know about the decisions taken and already communicate about them at local level. They may not have received that information from the cabinet, but from members of the board of directors or persons working in the company. They then communicate to show what investments they have made, while no one can verify that that is correct. We are also being asked whether there will indeed be an investment in that station or other stations. I therefore believe that your attitude is correct and I hope that everyone will communicate about it in a correct way, because it is already being communicated about it, even before it is official.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-19-54-commissie-ic787x.u36	You have the floor for your questions. You're joining yourself!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-19-54-commissie-ic787x.u37	It's not always the easiest, Madam President! Minister, I'll talk to you about a bike. My first question concerns the beautiful train station of Rixensart that you are beginning to know well. You will be asked to come there for a long time and come back to inaugurate 100 meters by 100 meters the construction site of the RER. It's a joke. I'm asking you about the safe parking lot for the bikes. The construction site of the Rixensart station is coming to an end but does not yet have a secure bicycle parking. According to global data from the SNCB, which you know by heart, it turns out that 27% of commuters travel to the stations by car and they are on average 15% to get there by bike. That's the answer to Mr. Dallemagne, who was worried about my penetration rate with respect to little queen lovers. It must be noted that the SNCB makes a considerable and disproportionate contribution, both in terms of budget and surface area, to the car through its parking policy. However, these figures do reflect a reality that varies from place to place. They depend on how infrastructure is organized in general: roads, cycle paths, access to the station and the presence or absence of secure bicycle parking. This last point, in particular, is an important element whose absence may constitute a major obstacle to the use of bicycles. I am thinking in particular of the development of electric bicycles which have a greater value. This requires means, but without common measure with those necessary for the reception of cars. Free access to secure bicycle parking at all stations is therefore a policy of the future. I took the example of Rixensart but it is also true in Genval which is not very far away. Minister, is there any plans to install a secure bicycle parking at the Rixensart station? What at Genval Station? Is it possible for SNCB to install such car parks at all stations? From line 161 of Rixensart, we move to another line, the 124, which is much less pampered with regard to the RER, since your PSPI is now telling us about 2031. You can imagine the mess! While waiting not Godot but the RER, I ask you about the beautiful secure bike parking at Nivelles station. I'm talking about it freely. It's 200 meters from my house. I can practically fall asleep by looking at him remotely, minister. But it prevents me from sleeping a little, because this secure offer is still insufficient compared to the number of cyclists who go there daily. This is already a step in the right direction. However, there is still a great deal of room to improve the situation of cyclists in this Nivelles station and in the train stations in general. Today, this car park is used for the operation "Viva for Life" of RTBF and, for once, it is a little filled. But the secure bike parking, offered for three months to the owners of a Mobib card, will then be paid at a price of 75 euros per year. Minister, given the environmental issues associated with transportation, the many bicycle flights that may discourage commuters from using this means of transportation, it seems to us that this access should always be free for SNCB subscribers. Is free access to secure bicycle parking possible for SNCB and the government? How many stations, beyond the magnificent Nivelles station – by saying "magnificent" I weigh my words, in comparison with the architectural models we know in some cities – can they provide this type of parking for a total of places that you are going to give me? What are SNCB's annual revenues related to access to secure bicycle parking?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-19-54-commissie-ic787x.u38	Madam President, I will reply administratively. Poems have been written on the train but my answer will be a little more rebarbative. SNCB informs me that it is currently working on updating its policy for bicycle parking. Within this framework, various services will be offered, some of which will be paid for. The cost of a secure bike parking is high. It is difficult to offer this service at all stations, especially since demand is not present everywhere. When you talk about 15%, that's the national average. Around the Bruges train station, there are 4,000 bicycles. Around Namur station, there are 70. There's still work to raise awareness! SNCB adds that as part of its cycling policy development, it will develop a coherent secure parking offer. Bicycle car parks that offer additional service will be charged. An inventory is under way. Twenty-eight secure bike parks are currently present around the stations, half of them in Wallonia. This ranges from a parking space with racks to boxes sometimes placed by the local authorities. The current inventory is intended to standardize the service offered to customers and the resumption of the management of secure bicycle parking by SNCB. The Mobib card will, for example, be the medium that will allow access to infrastructure. The SNCB has not planned to install secure bicycle parking at the Rixensart and Genval stations but will remain attentive to the needs of cyclists and increase the capacity of the rackers if necessary, the investment being still not so high and so complicated to install on, for example, car parks. The total annual revenue received by SNCB from access to secure bicycle car parks amounts to €62 000 for the whole country.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-19-54-commissie-ic787x.u39	Madam President, Minister, I am obviously sorry about the Rixenxart station, but I can see that this is not completely over. You know me, I'll come back.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-19-54-commissie-ic787x.u40	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-19-54-commissie-ic787x.u41	I would point out to you that it worked! I'm on my way. But, beyond that, in relation to the starting question that you answered with your usual bonhomie, which I appreciate, the comparison does not seem acceptable to me. I lived in Leuven for two years. The Leuven train station and all these agglomerated bikes around this station are representative of a cycling policy. We can ask ourselves the question of Christopher Columbus. It's a little egg and chicken. What creates an environment that attracts cycling? Among the arguments often mentioned are those of gradient and difficulty. There are now technological means, such as electric bicycles, which, according to recent figures, are experiencing a boom. There is a real attraction, technological means, but there must also be reception. And in a number of stations, there are none. When I talk about the station, the SNCB and the federal state are not the only ones responsible. There are also the communes, paths that make it possible to access it; it is a global policy. As I announced at the beginning of the reply, I will come back because it is an important issue when we see the number of accesses to trains other than the car that needs to be increased. It is also part of the fight against global warming.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-19-54-commissie-ic787x.u42	Minister, mobility in large cities is a major challenge of the future. Even today, there are too many traffic jams, such as the blind tracking of GPS by users. You have recently argued for communes to publish their open data mobility data in order to allow card providers, for example, to update their data more easily. You also indicate that you want to set up a platform at national level that gathers all the mobility data to enable development on the basis of a public/private partnership. Minister, where is the development of open data at the level of mobility data, whether at the municipal, regional or national level? How does the government intend to promote data sharing in open data? What budgets are planned for the promotion and implementation of the platform? Has a timetable already been established for the establishment of this platform?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-19-54-commissie-ic787x.u43	Dear colleague, my open data skills are mainly focused on rail. As a reminder, SNCB shall make available to any person or entity who so requests and provided that it subscribes to a free license, all its static, hourly, dynamic and real-time data and information. I also promote the sharing of mobility data at national or communal level through various initiatives. I implemented the 2014 ITS Cooperation Agreement by creating an inter-federal ITS Steering Committee. This allowed inter-federal entities to coordinate and respond quickly to the Program Support Action (PSA) launched by Connecting Europe Facility (CEF) on 24 May 2017. The aim of this European PSA is to encourage the implementation of the obligations specified in the multimodal travel information services delegated act of the European Framework Directive 2010/40 on Intelligent Transport Systems. In practical terms, it aims at the establishment of a national access point (NAP) gathering all the static and possibly dynamic data of transport operators, in accordance with the European standard on the format of data exchange. The form of this NAP – national data warehouse or other – will be determined during the project. The STI Steering Committee has entrusted the coordination of this project to the Flemish Region and the grant agreement with the CEF is in the process of being signed. The PSA budget available for Belgium is up to EUR 357,000. The PSA project will take place over 48 months, from 2018 to 2021. On the other hand, I support the ASBL ITS.be of which the federal authority is a member, in the same way as the three Regions. ITS.be has developed initiatives aimed at stimulating the opening up of data in the field of transport and re-use in Belgium. For example, this initiative, as well as off-road urban parking managers, has published their data in order to enable the municipalities to develop a policy of guidance and mobility. Finally, I am developing a call for projects programme within the framework of Smart Mobility, in collaboration with my colleague Minister for the Digital Agenda. The aim will be to stimulate projects that bring concrete solutions to the problems of mobility based on data, with the aim of stimulating the open data culture while having a positive and concrete impact on the lives of our citizens.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-19-54-commissie-ic787x.u44	Thank you, Minister. I believe that the key word is the coordination of the various initiatives to ensure that this policy is real and effective at the service of the citizens. It is clear that the architecture and diversity of our modes of transport require a lot of energy on your part and you will be there – I am sure – to stimulate this new way of designing the coordination of the different means of transport.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-19-54-commissie-ic787x.u45	Madam President, I should like to inform you that my colleague Gautier Calomne is currently attending a meeting of the Committee on Finance and the Budget. Minister, the Deutsche Bahn has for several years referred to the possibility of establishing a direct link between Frankfurt and London, which should pass through Liège. If the project were to materialize, it would represent a magnificent opportunity for the burning City – however, obviously, that a stop at the Guillemins station would be planned. In this way Liège would be directly connected to London. In addition, its international links would be strengthened, as is already the case in Antwerp and Brussels. Important developments at the Guillemins station should, however, be planned with a view to bringing it up to standards and allowing systematic control of travellers outside the Schengen area. Minister, can you tell us what is the status of this Frankfurt-London link project? Have the Belgian authorities positioned themselves to install a stop in Liège? Have SNCB and the city of Liège agreed on this opportunity? Have the necessary adjustments been studied? What would be the cost?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-19-54-commissie-ic787x.u46	Mr Foret, the desire to establish this link has been expressed by DB for several years. According to the information available to me, due to problems of certification of the equipment and the refocusing of DB on its core business, this project is currently pending.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-19-54-commissie-ic787x.u47	[[Without microphone]] Minister, could we have a look at the report?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-19-54-commissie-ic787x.u48	These are in-house studies conducted by SNCB, Infrabel and DB. So we didn't know about it.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-19-54-commissie-ic787x.u49	Question No 22140 by Mr Jean-Jacques Flahaux was withdrawn.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-19-54-commissie-ic787x.u50	Madam President, Minister, I would like to ask you about the overflight of Brussels. Your government has been in place for more than three years. It had committed itself to providing a structural solution to noise air pollution. For the time being, we have seen nothing come and, to date, your government has not done much in this area. In the face of your government's inability to formulate proposals for persistent violations of existing noise standards, the Brussels Region and the Brussels municipalities and citizens' associations have brought actions for environmental cessation against the Belgian State. At the end of the judgment of the Court of First Instance of Brussels, which took place on 19 July, your Government was condemned, inter alia, "to stop the manifest violations of the subsequent noise decree, on the one hand, the use of the Canal road, by amending the conditions of use of the Canal road, including for the period between 23:00 and 07:00, and on the other hand, the use during those hours of the ring road and the air route used for landings on Runway 01, by changing their conditions of use during those time zones". You have also been ordered to "address to the Brussels-Capital Region within four months of the service of this decision, a letter setting out the operational measures you intend to take in order to mitigate, as soon as possible, noise pollution, without significantly affecting the operational capacity of the airport and the time limits within which you intend to implement these measures". If this letter were to indicate that no such operational action can be taken, it will contain a formal and material motivation in this respect. In addition, you must fund, at your own expense, a study of the environmental impact of airport operations as part of noise pollution. These various convictions are accompanied by periodic penalty payments. Your answer, Minister, to these aspects of the court's judgment is, to say the least, indigent because, to read you, it is impossible to do anything, or almost, in the short term, not even to clarify the standards contained in the PRS as you undertook in conclusion of the parliamentary debates on your audit report on Belgocontrol a few months ago. This is obviously totally incomprehensible to the Brussels people. It is increasingly clear that you have no intention of changing the current situation and that you are playing the watch, which is confirmed by your lack of diligence in the response to the Brussels Region. You have indeed waited the last day to answer him. You have shown the same behaviour in the preparation of the impact study that the judgment also condemns you to carry out. It took you almost four months to appoint a lawyer's office to draft the specifications. The same applies to your concern to wait for the outcome of the impact study to take action. In your mail, you justify your refusal to implement measures as soon as possible because of the working and study time required by the safety requirements and the assessment of their impact on the airport's capacity and operations. This is, to say the least, extraordinary. If I understand correctly, we find that, for three years, neither your firm nor your administration has conducted the necessary studies. You seem to have waited for this judgment of the court to carry out studies necessary to put an end to the breaches of Brussels noise standards, which have been known for years. For the past three years, you seem to have done nothing, while you have constantly explained that you are preparing a plan based on a technical analysis of the file. This suggests that you have never really intended to implement the government agreement. Beyond that, the argument put forward about the time it takes to carry out studies does not stand in the way of measures that have already been implemented by some companies or that could very quickly be implemented by your predecessor. I will take a few examples: the fall in take-off at the beginning of the runway to be able to turn earlier and have a greater margin of safety was immediately implemented by Ryanair. Another example was the reduction in the quota count, which was allowed on certain routes at certain times, which allowed Mrs Galant, your predecessor, to transfer some of the flights from the ring road to the Canal route overnight. I can also quote the limitation of aircraft loads to allow them to climb faster and not to violate noise standards. Here, too, your predecessor Mrs. Galant was able, with a slamming of fingers, to put or put back a whole series of planes on the Canal road. You can also immediately decide on the carry-over to Runway 19 of aeroplane take-offs that cannot meet noise standards by taking off from Runway 25. You also know that you can clarify the PRS and wind standards, as you announced last June, to significantly limit landings on Runway 01. It is true that with the exception of the former, these measures are likely to move some nuisances to other less populated areas. But, quite amazingly, you indicate in your mail that you refuse to consider measures that move the nuisances; you only consider those that reduce them on the roads that are, today, taken. This political choice deprives you of most of the measures that can be taken as soon as possible to put an end to the violations of Brussels noise standards denounced in the judgement. Making this purely political choice, you choose not to execute a court decision that you seemed to agree to by not asking for an additional time, which is unacceptable. This is a serious violation of the rule of law. In our view, you are outlawing the law by making this decision, by making this political choice. Legally, you cannot say that there is no possibility of executing the judgment by ruling out solutions that displease you politically. To carry out this judgment, you had to consider moving nuisances to areas where these nuisances meet the standards in force, either because their impact is reduced or because the standards are different. Is it because you and your predecessor have not prepared any measures over the past three years to enforce environmental standards that you refuse to execute the judgment? Is it because you have made the deliberate political choice not to carry it out by refusing to consider measures leading to the displacement of nuisances from one area to another? Are you aware of the seriousness of this decision not to respect the judgment of the Brussels Court, which you had - it seems - acquiesced? Minister, it is time to act. It is possible to act. But you have to have some political courage and dare to exercise your skills. I therefore invite you to respect the rule of law in accordance with the judgment of the Brussels Court. I also call on you to respect the commitments made before our committee, following the audit that you had commissioned from DGTA on the compliance of Belgocontrol with the PRS. It was very clear from this audit that Belgocontrol did not comply with the PRS as understood by the enforcement authority, because it had another interpretation. You have deduced that the PRS should be clarified and you have announced to Parliament that you will do so. It is clear from an article in L'Écho on 17 October that this clarification would be in line with the DGTA's interpretation and with the limitation of Belgocontrol's expectations. I am particularly concerned that your response to the July 19 ruling does not include the clarification announced, which is likely to mitigate violations of noise standards caused by landings on Runway 01. Should this be seen as a challenge to your commitment? If not, when can we expect this clarification and its implementation?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-19-54-commissie-ic787x.u51	Madam President, Minister, as Mr Dallemagne said on 20 July, the Brussels Court of First Instance condemned the Belgian State to stop the violations of the Brussels-Capital Region noise order. For the road known as the Canal, the judge asked you to cease the offences for the day as for the night. For the ring road and landings on Runway 01, she asked to stop the commission of offences for the night only. On 24 November, you sent a letter to the Brussels Minister of the Environment, in which you explain the actions you intend to take to comply with this judgment. It appears that you have not taken any structural measures to adequately respond to the repeated violations of environmental standards, as they are repeatedly validated by all the legal institutions in this country. Minister, on 3 October 2017, in this committee, you told me that you had asked your administration to draw up a specification and to establish a procedure for implementing the impact assessment for all routes from and to Brussels Airport. That's what the judge forced you to do. Where are you in this process? Was the author of this study finally appointed? Who is he? What are the deadlines for writing this study? When are you planning to present the comprehensive solution that you promised us a long time ago? Will your Vliegwet project and especially its annexes, which may one day contain the air routes, take into account the case law in general and in particular the one recalled by the judgment of 20 July 2017, namely the respect of the Brussels regional environmental standards and the idea of establishing an environmental night from which all the residents could benefit, whether they live in the Brussels, Flemish or Walloon Region? Is your administration already, as a matter of prudence, providing for the potential periodic payments of EUR 100 000 per week that have been due since 25 November last? I repeat, your answer is not one.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-19-54-commissie-ic787x.u52	Minister, as the judgment requests, you have announced that a study on the nuisance caused by the airport will be commissioned. The study will also include recommendations. What guarantees are in place to ensure that this study is objective and independent? Will this study be able to propose changes to air routes? Will this be available to the selected study office or is this excluded from the federal government's consideration? Will there be a carte blanche for independents or not who will be doing the study? With regard to alternative solutions to reduce noise pollution, the press indicated that the federal government had decided not to change the air routes, thus allowing the current situation to continue. This implies that densely populated neighbourhoods of the capital will continue to be more crowded than other much less populated neighbourhoods. Will the federal government retain the population density criterion in order to propose structural solutions to the problem of the overflight of Brussels? I have been asking for this for more than three years, but I have never been told by any Minister MR whether or not this criterion would be used. Finally, more broadly, what concrete solutions are already agreed within the federal government?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-19-54-commissie-ic787x.u53	Colleagues, with respect to the impact assessment component, I have appointed a specialized law firm to assist me in drafting a specification. I would remind everyone that in Belgium there are laws on public procurement and that these steps must therefore be followed before they are designated. As a result of this work, this specification was carried out. The contract notice was published on December 1, 2017 and is now following the legal process. With regard to the objectivity and independence of the study, the specification reproduces the judgement on this requirement. In order to reinforce this requirement, a declaration of honour must be signed by the tenderer in which he certifies that neither he nor any of the natural or legal persons intended to cooperate decisively in the performance of services or likely to have an influence on the performance of those services by the tenderer is in a situation of conflict of interest in the performance of those services, i.e. he would directly or indirectly have a financial, economic or personal interest which could be perceived as compromising their impartiality or independence in the performance of the services. Several cases of conflict of interest are alleged, in particular if the potential tenderer has worked for one of the parties to the dispute during the last seven years or if he has carried out a study on Brussels-National airport during the same period. In the same spirit, the selected study office will have to demonstrate its international experience in connection with airports of similar size in Brussels. With regard to the alternatives that may be proposed by the designated study office, I have also scrupulously complied with the prescriptions of the judgement, which provides that the study "will include the consideration of alternatives for the mitigation of noise pollution taking into account the essential safety requirement and including the assessment of the impact of these alternatives on operating capacity." Proposals may be made, but the study office will determine for itself the alternatives it considers relevant to this issue. This is the only way out of a political debate and an objective analysis of the situation. I hope everyone will join in. With regard to operational measures, it is wrong to say that I wish to allow the current situation to continue. But my intention is not to want to dress Peter by undressing Paul. Others have tried in the past and no one has won – certainly not the citizens. I want to learn from the mistakes of the past and from all my distant or close predecessors. A change of road requires at Belgocontrol about thirty weeks of implementation, after instruction. This increases if we talk about several roads. The sharp judgment in the sense of an obligation to conduct an impact assessment would therefore be illusory to believe that such measures could be taken at short notice. Similarly, setting up roads that could be contradicted by the sponsored impact study would be mismanaged. In the context of a comprehensive solution, the inclusion of densely populated areas is indeed one of the criteria for discussion, as is also reflected in the government agreement. In the four measures mentioned by Mr. Dallemagne, the first is indeed reflected in the letter addressed to RBC. The second is an operating restriction requiring, since the entry into force of Regulation 598/2014 in June 2016, an impact assessment. Second, the third does not maintain the operational capacity of the airport as foreseen in the judgment. I also note in your inquiry, Mr Dallemagne, that you would prefer to move noise nuisances instead of trying to reduce them structurally. I would remind you that at the request of your municipality, the judgement remained silent about the departures of the left-wing turn. I am sure that the inhabitants of your municipality on this axis would be delighted to learn your will to overburden them more. Indeed, you are asking me to consider the movement of nuisances to areas where they would meet the standards in force. The judge didn't say anything about it. It's your choice, but certainly not mine. My goal is not to relieve one another by overloading the other. I believe, by means of the letter sent to the Brussels Region, that I have responded to the judgment, on the one hand, by proposing technological measures aimed at structurally reducing noise for all, as prescribed, and not at moving it; on the other hand, by launching an impact study which will help us to examine alternative measures in an objective and independent manner. I received the official reply from the Brussels Region at the beginning of the month and responded to it today. In any case, I intend to clarify the wind standards. In doing so, I would like to say that I am responding to the audit carried out on the use of jobs and not to the judgment of 19 July 2017.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-19-54-commissie-ic787x.u54	Minister, your strategy is to suddenly find out that an impact study is needed before you can act. Yet we are more than three years from the start of the federal government. So nothing would have been done on your part in terms of study to try to change the current situation. Very clearly, you are taking a request from the court to act diligently to postpone to the Greek calends any substantial decision on the overflight of Brussels. When you say you refuse to undress Paul to dress James, you know very well that the problem today is the mass overflight of Brussels. This is not an overflight of a defined area of Brussels. This is one of the consequences of the decisions taken by Mrs Galant, who had decided to place flights on the canal or, more recently, by ministers who, in the early 2000s, decided to send massive planes to Brussels, to use or overuse airstrip 01. You're telling me that you could use my argument to send even more aircraft back to the left turn, but you know very well why the court didn't say anything about this turn: there is no sonometer on this left turn. They are in the process of being placed in order to objectiveize an already massive license on this left turn. Ironing the fact that more planes could be sent, the Brussels people will appreciate it! They know very well that today this turn is already overused and if nothing has been said, it is because the sonometers were not on this route. The Brussels people are organizing themselves in order to be able to objectiveise the current massive nuisances. I regret that you made a political decision to say that the Brussels people must be subjected to these flights today. The only thing you've tried to do is make these flights less noisy. But you could have found the existing configurations before 2003. You could have had a little more courage, if only on the use of Runway 19 by enforcing PRS, for example, on Sunday morning or at night. These decisions were not extremely important. You say this limits Brussels' operational capacity, but DGTA has already responded to this argument! This limits the theoretical capacity but we do not need it at these times. Movements from the airport using Runway 19 are absolutely no hindrance, and you also know that, minister. So they are false-likers, elements that allow you not to act. Behind this, we know that you are politically stuck by the Flemish parties of your government, which have banned you from moving flights that are now massively over Brussels. That's the reality. I ask you now to act more diligently, more in accordance with the rule of law, and to respect this court decision. You know very well that the Brussels Region will not be content with your answer. Unfortunately, she will continue legal proceedings to compel you to act in accordance with the law, because that is the only solution for her. That is why I am tabling a motion of recommendation, Madam Chair.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-19-54-commissie-ic787x.u55	Minister, first of all flowers. You followed the schedule for the incidence study. It's launched. You didn't give us any calendar information. When will this impact study be available? It would have been interesting to know. Now the pot. You must make a choice, minister, in the face of your judgment. Judgment sacralizes environmental standards, which are not the standards of wind but of noise. You have the choice: you can move the nuisance by operating a change of roads. As you say, you undress Peter, Flanders, to dress Paul, Brussels or Wallonia. And that Jacques also intervenes, no matter what. That's not the choice you've made, and it's pretty happy, since we don't move the trash, we recycle it. You have another choice, that of limiting to the source. This choice has implications: limiting operational capacity, especially at night. Contrary to what you say, this is not a debate of aviation experts, but a political debate. The Brussels-Capital Region has had strong environmental standards for 15 years. These are noise standards. Flanders, which is also flying over, has not adopted such standards and has made the political choice not yet to establish strong environmental standards protecting its population from noise. Let's imagine that in a few years, Flanders has the same environmental standards! The planes couldn't go anywhere anymore. We would then be obliged to finally discuss a limitation on the operational capacity of the airport, essentially at night, since environmental standards protect the residents all the more as they live away from the airport and as the aircraft flies by night or day. Everyone has the right to a repairing sleep. Minister, this is a priority issue. I therefore propose to stop this particularly painful debate in which everything is done as if there were no order of priority. It is first and foremost health and the environment and then the economy. For ecologists, the health of the inhabitants must be taken into account before any additional gains that shareholders – including the Belgian State and airlines – can earn. That's the choice you have to make. Judgment obliges you to go in this direction. Take your responsibilities, the political choice is clear. Make this choice!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-19-54-commissie-ic787x.u56	Mr Minister, if I have heard correctly, the study can do everything, such as proposing alternative solutions such as alternative roads or taking into account population density, which is one criterion among others. However, I believe that this criterion should be considered as "the" primary criterion since it is a criterion of public safety and health! Crushing in a wheat field or over a densely populated neighbourhood has different consequences for the safety of the population. I fear, like the Brussels Region, that this impact study will take so much time only once more, we will come to a status quo under this government, when the MR promised so much to the Brussels people during his election campaign. I fear that the status quo will be the outcome of this government, which the Brussels people will not accept.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-19-54-commissie-ic787x.u57	In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. A motion for recommendation was tabled by Mr. Georges Dallemagne and reads as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the inquiry of Mr Georges Dallemagne and the response of the Minister of Mobility, responsible for Belgocontrol and the National Society of Belgian Railways, asks the government to - respect the rule of law by executing the judgment handed down by the Brussels Court of First Instance on 19 July, to which it acquiesced; - as a result, to cease the manifest violations in the Noise Order following, on the one hand, the use of the Canal route by modifying the conditions of use of the Canal route, including for the period from 23:00 to 07:00 and consecutive, on the other hand, the use, during the period from 23:00 to 07:00, of the Ring route and the air route used for landings on Runway 01 by amending their conditions of use during that period; - address to the Brussels-Capital Region: - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, - clarify as soon as possible the interpretation of the PRS in order to put an end to the abusive deviations found by DGTA in its audit of compliance with the PRS carried out over the period from 2 to 10 October 2016." A motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr Georges Dallemagne and reads as follows: "The Chamber, heard the interplay of Mr. Georges Dallemagne and the reply of the Minister for Mobility, responsible for Belgocontrol and the National Society of Belgian Railways, asks the government - respect the rule of law, by implementing the judgment of the Court of First Instance in Brussels on 19 July last, which it did not challenge; - therefore put an end to the obvious violations of the Brussels decision on noise standards resulting, on the one hand, from the use of the Channel Route, by amending the conditions under which that route may be used, including for the period from 23h to 7h, and, on the other hand, from 23h to 7h, the use of the Ring Route and the landing route on runway 01, by changing the conditions under which they may be used for that time space; - inform the Brussels-Capital Region of: . the operational measures it will take to mitigate the impact of noise as quickly as possible without compromising the operational capacity of the airport (remarkably); . the period within which it will implement those measures; - clarify the interpretation of the PRS as soon as possible, in order to put an end to its unauthorised deviations established by DGLV in the context of its examination of compliance with the PRS in the period from 2 to 10 October 2016.' A simple motion was tabled by Mr. Jean-Jacques Flahaux. A simple motion was tabled by Mr Jean-Jacques Flahaux. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed. The motions will be voted on later. The meeting's over.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-19-54-commissie-ic787x.u58	Mr Minister, I am not telling you any news here: Infrabel has long been working on limiting the number of plans to promote safety on the rail network. In this respect, I have always been a cool lover, because quite a few railways in our country traverse residential centres, villages and municipalities. The railways form a kind of barrier between different parts of a municipality. In this sense, there must be an eye for the separate effect of such a railway crossing. It may make sense to consider alternatives to ground level and if necessary implement them. I am thinking of tunnels or bridges, so that the barrier effect is reduced. Recently we received reports about the possible abolition of a road crossing at Willem Driesstraat in Muizen in Mechelen. The public investigation showed once again that the abolition of such an approach has a significant impact on vulnerable traffic groups, namely soft road users, including pedestrians and cyclists, especially children. They will not be provided with a full alternative. Without going into too much detail on the specific case, I would like to point out that attention must always be paid to the soft road users in traffic. Minister, how many thoughts were abolished in 2017? In what way does the consultation between Infrabel and the local authorities take place? What happens to the official letters from the local authorities expressing objections to the closure of ground-level considerations? How's that being followed up? How is it ensured that an in-depth preliminary investigation is carried out by Infrabel each time? Is that being followed and checked? In what way will a fully-fledged alternative be offered in the case of abolished consideration? I think that is essential when consideration is abolished. What is your view, Minister, on the abolition of consideration? How will that be translated into the management contracts that are coming? How many considerings are there at the moment? How many accidents took place in the last year? How many victims were there to regret?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-19-54-commissie-ic787x.u59	Madam President, Minister, despite several awareness campaigns conducted by Infrabel, the rail infrastructure manager, the phenomenon of trespassing is constantly increasing. Infrabel's figures are truly challenging: 45% of trespassings are commuters who want to take a shorter road; 18% are residents and walkers; 16% are children who play and gather; 8% are seniors and 7% are commuters who have left something on the rails. Minister, I would like your views on these figures and developments. What actions and measures have been taken by Infrabel in recent years to combat this phenomenon? Are new actions planned? Recently, walking along the railway has become a crime. What penalties are imposed on persons travelling in the railway sector? What is the amount of fines imposed to date? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-19-54-commissie-ic787x.u60	First of all, Minister, I would like to say that the title of my question is, of course, wrong. Of course, it's about trespassing. Over the last few months, many cases have been reported of people on the tracks. Recently, a deadly victim was lamented in Morlanwelz, where a young man crossed the tracks. Locals say it happens more often in that place. On December 12, a woman was hit by a train in Lier. Is it true that Infrabel is committed to a awareness campaign, for EUR 0.5 million this year alone? It can also be said that the staff responded well to the incident with Karen Damen, who posed on a railway for the cover picture of her first single. It is therefore positive that the singer has sent a message to the world to point out the dangers to young people. However, Minister, sensitisation is clearly not always enough. The figures show no improvement. Five years ago there were 478 reports of trackers. In the first half of this year, this would have been 417. You recently replied to a written question by my colleague Marco Van Hees on the security structure. I have a number of questions that go into more detail. How many railway cases have already been identified this year? How many victims are there to regret? Can you give figures on the total number of minutes delay due to track running? How many fines were paid for running tracks? Is there a remarkable impact of Infrabel's awareness campaigns? What efforts has Infrabel made this year in the construction of infrastructure to prevent track running on so-called hotspots? Is the scene of the accident in Morlanwelz one of those points? Is it possible to equip that with specific infrastructure?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-19-54-commissie-ic787x.u61	I can inform Mr Van den Bergh that 13 reflections were abolished in 2017 until today. Before considering closing, Infrabel conducts preliminary studies and mobility studies in consultation with local authorities, also examining whether there is an alternative to the abolition. On the basis of the objections raised during the public investigation, the local authority draws up an opinion which it delivers to the urban civil servant. He in turn decides to issue or refuse the licence. In the new regulations, local authorities will also be able to issue or refuse permits. Without an agreement of principle and cooperation with the municipality, aiming at the elaboration of a global vision of mobility, Infrabel believes that the transition will not be abolished. At the moment there are a total of 1 639 considering. According to the provisional figures, 44 accidents were recorded in the period from the beginning of 2017 to the end of November 2017 with a total of 9 deaths and 3 serious injuries. The next management contract with Infrabel will also include provisions on the consideration, but that is still under negotiation. Mrs. Thoron asked me about the same subject. Infrabel's strategy is to develop teaching materials for primary schools enabling teachers to independently animate one or more railway safety lessons. To this end, the outreach kit is sent free of charge to all teachers who request it. Currently, as many French-speaking as Dutch-speaking copies have been sent, i.e. approximately 650 kits in each of the languages. For secondary schools, interactive sessions are organized by Infrabel in collaboration with the police and Securail, in order to explain to young people the basic rules of railway safety. They are programmed at the request of schools, often because they are located near a railway station or crossing and they are aware of many cases of trespassing by their students. In order to support its presence in secondary schools, Infrabel launched last spring a "box by Infrabel", a container designed to raise awareness among teenagers through a virtual reality experience. The pilot projects took place in an establishment of the Wallonia-Brussels Federation, in Fontaine-l'Évêque, and in a school of the Flemish Community in Heule. An even more precise targeting of schools at greater risk due to the proximity of the railway is in fact under consideration. As far as the question of Messrs. Kir and Hedebouw on trespassing, from 1 January 2017 to 30 September 2017, Infrabel recorded 618 cases, resulting in four deaths and three serious injuries. The SNCB Security Operation Center has received 2818 calls concerning trespassing since 1 January of this year - 15 of them concerned Morlanwelz. From January to November, this caused 130,365 minutes of delay, representing a share of 9.74 % of all delays on the Belgian network and 718 trains abolished. For the same period in 2016, 553 cases were registered. Infrabel therefore notes a 10% increase in the number of cases since last year. As far as the causes of trespassing are concerned, the 45 per cent of commuters on the shortest track do so by crossing tracks at the station mainly during peak hours. However, Infrabel notes two important trends: on the one hand, the increase of young people in or along the routes, from 16 to 20 %, and on the other hand, the number of young people seeking strong sensations - surfing - from 4 to 8 %. You saw that, in the Lille area, there was a serious accident this weekend. Young people walking by the tracks were sucked into the train. For infrastructural measures, Infrabel installs signs prohibiting the crossing of the tracks at the edge of the station docks, anti-invasive carpets at the most sensitive level crossings - especially beside the schools - as well as full-way fences at the hotspots identified in its action plan. The Morlanwelz site is actually identified as a hotspot. Infrabel also raises awareness in primary and secondary schools as well as among festivalgoers. Infrabel also points out that, unfortunately, it is the dangerous behaviour of some citizens that remains the cause of most of the accidents associated with the crossing of roads. This, in spite of all the awareness-raising and security actions carried out by the infrastructure manager. SNCB informs me that Securail has issued 926 minutes for trespassing since 1 January 2017, 15 of which concerned events in Morlanwelz. Needless to say, I discovered from the press that, during an event of gathering of staff of Infrabel and SNCB - on Monday, after the Morlanwelz accident - two motorists tried to cross the crossing while the gates were closed. That's really worrying. I keep saying it. At the level of the Road Traffic Code, it is a very serious offence, beyond the danger it poses to the person himself.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-19-54-commissie-ic787x.u62	I am not entirely satisfied with the fact that the subject of risk-taking is being mixed up with the abolition of ground-level consideration. However, I would like to thank the Minister for the answers. His answer to my question as to who specifically delivers the building permit for the abolition of a crossing was not clear to me. Do I understand correctly that this will in future be the city or city administration and that this is not yet the case? So perhaps I can get even more clarification on that. In conclusion, there must be sufficient attention for alternatives to the soft road users and otherwise we must not close the road. Apparently, Infrabel is certainly open to this, as the Minister said. I can only welcome that.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-19-54-commissie-ic787x.u63	Minister, you confirm our concerns. You're talking about an important figure, 10% increase in trespassing from year to year. It's not nothing. You've been talking about four deaths, three serious injuries and many calls related to that since the beginning of the year. I have heard that measures are being taken, both in terms of awareness-raising and concrete actions. I also asked you about the repressive aspects, because at some point you have to be able to take them. You have not answered it, but I propose to come back to it in the next sitting with a specific question on the fact that from now on, walking along the railway is an offence. I'll ask you at that time to know what's going on here.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-19-54-commissie-ic787x.u64	Minister, thank you for your answer. We will not fail to analyse the figures in detail. The trend is disturbing. We're talking about 10%. At some point, we need to think a little more comprehensively and with multiple approaches. There is a need for a faster link between the designation of hotspots, i.e. where SNCB has already done an analysis and identified a problem. Is it possible to have a list of hotspots? Or are there too many? What is the timing of infrastructure investment in this regard? There's obviously a field of tension. If it's in weeks, it's still going on, but if it's in months or years, it's a problem. Minister, could you give us this list and the company's own plan to fill out these hotspots?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-19-54-commissie-ic787x.u65	Mr Hedebouw, on the one hand, I don't have it. On the other hand, as a matter of principle, neither Infrabel nor SNCB wishes to communicate them. They don't even want to communicate the number of suicides or the places where there are the most. I remind my former colleague that, when we were in committee, there had been a campaign inspired by the Swedish campaign. The Swedes then found that it was counterproductive, that it was even incentive in exposed places. Our railway company, together with the ERA, has decided to adopt a common position for all European companies, namely discretion. Just listen to the radio. As I've heard before, I can tell you. At times, there is one every two days, but there is no point in saying the place or the way. It is a very difficult social phenomenon to combat. This is not specific to SNCB. I heard that last week there was a big problem on the metro in Brussels. It's dramatic!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-19-54-commissie-ic787x.u66	Therefore, you will not have the figures by precautionary and preventive measures.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-19-54-commissie-ic787x.u67	Madam President, Minister, the waiting room of the Schulen station has been closed for some time. The basis would be different cases of vandalism. A few weeks ago the guardhouse opened again, a good thing with the winter at the door. However, after an article in Het Belang Van Limburg, some confusion arose as to whether this was the work of a rebellious citizen or a decision of SNCB. In the article, a spokesman of SNCB gave the impression that an accompanying note was the work of a joker, but the decision to open the house back was indeed taken by SNCB. It is extra strange that the waiting room was closed again shortly afterwards, for the same reason as before. Minister, I have a few specific questions. First of all, is it true that the first closure took place because of vandalism? What exactly was this vandalism about? How many facts were recorded over what period? How much damage was it? Were there any complaints filed with the police and the unsubs were found? Secondly, what has been done since then to find a solution to create another covered and heated waiting space in this station? Thirdly, was the guard house reopened by SNCB this autumn? What was the reason for this? Fourthly, is it true that the waiting room is now closed again? What's the reason for that? Fifthly, when do we expect to be able to open the Chamber again, so that the commuters in Schulen can wait dry and warm again for their train?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-19-54-commissie-ic787x.u68	Madam President, Minister, in the week of 20 November, the waiting room in Schulen station was reopened. It was closed for months by SNCB because vandalism was repeatedly established. With the arrival of winter it was necessary to find a solution for travellers. The snow of early December confirmed this all the more. Unfortunately, the passengers who have to take the train in Schulen have not been able to hide in the waiting room, because it was closed a few days later. According to SNCB, this was inevitable as a heater and a window of the room had been smashed. Instead of punishing the vandals, all travellers are punished by closing the guard room. I have the following questions. Firstly, is there a window open in Schulen or is the stopping point manned so that social control is possible to avoid vandalism? Secondly, does SNCB have an alternative to countering vandalism? Finally, is there a time limit for reopening the guard room or for providing an alternative?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-19-54-commissie-ic787x.u69	SNCB informs me that the decision was indeed taken to close the waiting room of the manned stop in Schulen because of vandalism. Windows were smashed, doors and radiators were damaged and so on. SNCB informs me that they now want to test for a month whether vandalism ends. The doors of the waiting room were therefore reopened on 4 December.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-19-54-commissie-ic787x.u70	Minister, I have tabled my question before 4 December. I think we should be pleased that the building has been reopened. Vandalism must of course be condemned, but if SNCB's response to vandalism is to close the waiting room, then all travellers will be punished. I don't think that's a good solution. A solution is perhaps better cooperation with the local police, the municipal administration, the railway police or others to tackle the causes of vandalism, the vandals. That seems to me to be a better solution. I welcome your answer that the building is open again. I hope that there will be a structural solution so that we do not have to close down in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-19-54-commissie-ic787x.u71	Minister, good news, but there is a vicious circle in Schulen and many other similar stations. Travelers are punished three times. Some stations are no longer manned. The result is more insecurity and vandal areas. Then you close the waiting rooms. That's a vicious circle. I think more thought should be given to the costs and benefits of shutting down those different stations and leaving them unmanned. I do not think this is the right logic, especially in the small stations where public services are so important.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-19-54-commissie-ic787x.u72	Minister, information on speed, alcohol and other controls is being widely shared in social media, applications for smartphones and other channels these days. Sharing such information can lead to a sense of impunity. As a result, checks do not, or less, lead to the intended increase in road safety. People who learn about the messages can change their route to escape the controls. Your colleague from the Flemish government, Minister Weyts, recently called on you to ban applications and Facebook groups, which announce police checks. He refers to the French regime whereby only a check may be announced in a large perimeter. Already in 2011 I asked then Secretary of State for Mobility, Etienne Schouppe, if he was willing to impose a ban on the Coyote system that collects all checks and informs drivers when they come near a check. He then rejected the proposal by pointing out the advantages of the system and the possible problems of banning it. However, I note that a ban has been introduced in other countries. I therefore have the following questions. Firstly, do you think that one should try to ban applications and groups, which announce controls? Secondly, what is legally the best way to do that? Do you think that the French regime can be applied to us? Thirdly, what period would you like to implement this?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-19-54-commissie-ic787x.u73	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, there are a number of advantages associated with the use of devices such as the Coyote housing. This technology makes it possible to provide various services to motorists to enhance their safety, such as informing them of the state of traffic, of the work in progress, of the presence of an obstacle, of slow-downs, of the presence of a broken vehicle, of a phantom driver – in Wallonia, an agreement between the Coyote company and the PEREX centre made it possible to report, quickly, on three occasions, the presence of phantom vehicles on the highway – but also to inform them of the speed limit, and this on a permanent basis. With regard to radar controls, it should be borne in mind that the location of fixed radars is part of the public domain. The map can be viewed on the road managers' sites. As far as mobile controls are concerned, the situation is, in my opinion, more difficult. It is not possible to achieve such a situation that some motorists do not respect speed limits or respect speed limits only in places where radars are installed while the rest of the time they press the accelerator pedal. I also note that the police themselves communicate preventively about the presence of controls and radars, but only up to a third. The most important thing, of course, is to comply with speed limits because of road safety. One may wonder whether it is ethical to set up a system in which motorists inform each other that speed control is under way. However, we must also ask ourselves how this can be effectively prevented and punishable. Finally, I would like to add that today at least seven different systems are proposing this.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-19-54-commissie-ic787x.u74	Minister, in 2011 I asked an oral question about Coyote, but today I asked the question in general, because there are now several systems. I agree with you that such systems can provide benefits for, for example, the detection of obstacles, such as a car that is broken down, ghost drivers, traffic jams and the like. In addition, the fixed flash poles are indeed known. The problem arises with mobile speed controls and mobile alcohol controls. Mobile alcohol controls change places around half an hour, but those data are also shared. Not only speed offenders are therefore a problem, but also people who are in a state of alcohol intoxication or drunkenness. I'm having a hard time passing on alcohol controls. You are talking about an ethical problem, but I think the problem is bigger. Involved persons escape checks while in violation. At the end of your reply, you say that you do not know exactly how to deal with this. However, such systems, which transmit data on mobile controls, are prohibited in a number of countries. So we can look across the border at how, for example, France is tackling this, which can be inspiring to introduce a ban in our country as well. We don't always have to invent the hot water ourselves. I call on you to look at foreign examples, because I am convinced that these can contribute to road safety, with fewer accidents, fewer deaths and fewer injuries. I call on you to study the study of foreign examples more closely.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-19-54-commissie-ic787x.u75	Madam President, Minister, my question concerns the order made by the Brussels Minister for Mobility, Pascal Smet, authorizing Villo's service vehicles to use the public transport bands, which came into force on August 7. The measure was intended to improve the supply of bicycles to the various Villo stations covering the Brussels-Capital Region, thereby improving the efficiency of the service itself by limiting the possible stock failures of bicycles available in certain stations. The press told us at the end of November that the Belgian State had taken action before the Council of State to cancel this measure. Minister, can you explain to me the ins and outs that led the state to go against the minister's decision? Are consultations with the administration of the Brussels-Capital Region under way to see how to reconcile the imperatives of each level of power?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-19-54-commissie-ic787x.u76	Dear colleague, the ministerial decree in question provides that, throughout the territory of the Brussels-Capital Region, certain Villo service vehicles are allowed to borrow bus bands and special franchise sites. In this case, this is a general police rule. Therefore, it is not the regions that are competent, but only the federal authority. The categories of vehicles which may be allowed to operate on bus bands and special franchised sites are defined in articles 72.5 and 72.6 of the Highway Traffic Code. Villo service vehicles are not included in these categories. The order of the Brussels-Capital Region was adopted without any consultation with my administration. If the latter had been informed of the needs of the Brussels-Capital Region, a solution could have been found constructively. It is therefore necessary to avoid at all costs that each Region authorises, at its own discretion, the use of bus bands and special franchised sites for vehicles other than those defined by the Road Traffic Code. Such practices offer no legal certainty and do not bring any benefits in terms of road safety. The only option was therefore the lodging of a request for annulment of the order in question. The above does not mean that I am insensitive to the problems faced by vehicles carrying Villo bicycles. My firm has already held discussions on this matter with Minister Smet's office. Currently, we are looking at how the relevant articles of the Highway Code could best be adapted to allow more flexibility for road managers in the use of the bus and special franchised sites band. The aim is to integrate this issue into the road code reform project, which is currently being finalized.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-19-54-commissie-ic787x.u77	Minister, thank you. I have no other question for you. You have responded accurately and comprehensively. That was the only option. I hear you are prepared to consider solutions for this service to be rendered. There's an opening on your part and it's positive.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-19-54-commissie-ic787x.u78	Minister, we know that all driving assistance applications help motorists use the most efficient route. They have gained in performance and multiplied. This has advantages. But one of the negative points is the tendency of these applications to divert traffic to axes that are totally unsuitable to receive a large amount of vehicles. This creates nuisances for residents, reduced road safety and pressure on infrastructure. This is the case for municipal roads where a large number of trucks pass while they should not travel to these places. This can cause many traffic disruptions from one location to another, rather than resorbing them. Some municipal authorities have shown special collaborations, such as the city of Ghent with the Waze application. This application can thus distribute more effective information to the user, and thus prevent upstream potentially problematic situations, both for drivers and for the neighbourhood. These communal authorities have planned a collaboration that seems to be quite effective. It would be interesting if this collaboration, rather than being an exception, were to become the rule. What are the flexibility of your services to foster collaborations between public authorities and driving support applications? Can the federal government play a coordinating role with regional and local actors, who are also responsible for mobility in certain areas?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-19-54-commissie-ic787x.u79	Colleagues, communication and information technologies make it possible more than ever to create various applications that contribute to the fluidisation of traffic by making data available in real time. Thanks to these, GPS offers the fastest journeys taking into account traffic conditions and not just the shortest journeys. I encourage cities and municipalities to work with the different companies that use the data to provide mobility information. Collaborating means providing up-to-date and good quality data. To help those who want to collaborate on smart mobility, I will launch in 2018, in collaboration with the Minister of Digital Agenda, the Smart Mobility project aimed at accelerating the implementation of the government's open data policy, by making available existing or missing data and data flows in the field of mobility. As a liberal, it seems to me that it is necessary to avoid monopoly situations, guaranteeing to all the accessibility of mobility data in a standard format. The opportunity for mobility is to switch from monomodal to multimodal GPS. It is clear, however, that the creation of data is a task for all public and private actors involved in mobility. At this stage, it is not desirable for the Federal State to centralize all data on its own. I am more supportive of initiatives such as those of the ITS Steering Committee that I put in place a few months ago to address this type of issue in a coordinated manner between the Regions and the federal government. A number of municipalities, particularly the large ones, adhere to the MaaS (Mobility as a Service) system in which data are to be injected in a virtual way - for example, on school days - and can put data online in the case of road closures. As a result, itineraries are no longer used. This requires a very strong interaction and involvement of the municipal authorities and the societies which manage these sites and which are increasingly numerous. You can communicate the information to one company, but another will not. We are faced with an atomisation of the use of data, the difficulty, for the local authorities, in their ability to act and communicate in real time the routes not recommended.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-19-54-commissie-ic787x.u80	Minister, thank you for your explanation. I hear you do not want to play the role of coordinator. I wonder about the capacities of municipalities and small towns; indeed, this is easier for large cities. I do not see how the smaller municipalities could play this centralizing role. I take it you're launching the Smart Mobility project. It is certainly possible to go further in the reflection to find an effective solution. During events in the Walloon Region, it is possible, through the PEREX centre, to centralize a series of data. We should come up with that kind of answer, too. Everyone has to play their part. I do not think that the small communes are able to assume this role for the time being.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-19-54-commissie-ic787x.u81	The role of the State is to foster the emergence of solutions and to coordinate, but not to centralize, data. The Regions have told us that they are the only ones responsible for the management of their networks - road and motorway. We want to be the facilitators for the implementation of technical solutions available to the Regions and local, regional or provincial road managers.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-19-54-commissie-ic787x.u82	Minister, we have recently learned that the sale of electric cars in our country has increased significantly between 2015 and 2016. This increase amounts to 147 per cent in one year, making our country the first in Europe to have sold so much in the automotive market. In concrete terms, it is about 10 000 electric cars that are added to Belgian roads, unlike our European neighbours such as the Netherlands or Denmark, which see their sales fall over the same period. For example, electric cars account for 1.6% of the total fleet. This rate allows us to be in sixth place at European level, alongside Sweden and Switzerland. As for the appropriate infrastructure for this type of car, Belgium invests heavily, with more than 20 charging stations per 1 000 km and ranks fourth at European level behind Switzerland, Luxembourg and the Netherlands. Minister, can you tell us how the sale of electric cars has evolved since the beginning of the legislature? How many people have been able to take advantage of the tax incentives available to buy this type of car since 2014? Are these incentives the main reason for this increase in sales? Do you see any other reasons or factors that would explain it? Objectively, Belgium is well classified at European level, we believe that this requirement must be maintained for the years to come in the interests of the citizen. We believe that there are three areas of relevance that need to be strengthened. First of all, are tax incentives going to be maintained or even expanded? Secondly, infrastructure-related investments: what action strategy would favour the presence of electric charging stations per kilometre? Finally, information campaigns because pedagogy is one of the levers to encourage the increase of electric cars: do you think that government action should focus more on such campaigns?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-19-54-commissie-ic787x.u83	My dear colleague, as far as the sale of electric cars is concerned, I cannot give you any figures. On the other hand, I can provide you with information on the registration of electric vehicles. I will give you these figures relating to the evolution of the registration of electric, pure and hybrid vehicles, since 2014. There are a wide range of tax incentives at various administrative levels but outside my jurisdiction. As regards the information on this subject, I refer you to the Regions and the Minister of Finance. I share your view that alternative fuels such as electricity should be promoted and even supported. The initiatives you have proposed are certainly interesting but unfortunately do not fall within my competence. I therefore suggest that you hold the debate with the minister responsible for aid to the sector.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-19-54-commissie-ic787x.u84	Minister, thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-19-54-commissie-ic787x.u85	Madam President, Minister, this is a series of questions about the state of the station in Leuven. Meanwhile, through written questions, I have already received an answer to a number of elements which come back to my oral question because the problems of cleanliness and accessibility have been dragging on for some time now. You have transferred a maintenance plan for, among other things, the canopies of the station, which have not been repaired and cleaned for a long time. An important problem remains the accessibility of the station and the fact that many lifts are defective and escalators have been inoperative for some time. In the meantime, you have indicated that the escalators will be worked on. Do you have a look at the current work? When will these be completed? What is happening with regard to the accessibility of the station? There has been an action in the station of Leuven with less mobile people, indicating that it was difficult for them to reach the station via the main entrance. Have you worked out solutions to this problem? An important general problem is that passengers are not informed about the work and the defects. A clear signaling in and around the station or, for example, an app with up-to-date information can clarify this.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-19-54-commissie-ic787x.u86	Madam President, Mrs Van Hoof, SNCB informs me that in the renovation of the Leuven railway station a great deal of attention was paid to accessibility for people with reduced mobility. In consultation with the National High Council for Persons with a Handicap, access to the building was located on the platform, both for wheelchair users and for the blind. Through this access they enter the waiting room immediately, where an adapted window is available to wheelchair users. It was not possible to provide for a slope to the main entrance at the Leuven station, because the space available is too limited and therefore it would not be possible to meet the legally applicable standards. The Leuven station serves as a pilot project to improve communication in the event of work and/or failures with regard to customers. For example, a standard poster was developed to inform passengers of all kinds of defects. As regards communication with customers and the conduction of passengers during work, the signalling is adapted to the phasering of the work. In addition, mid-term checks will be carried out to see if the signaling is still adequate. SNCB informs me that its procurement procedure for cleaning the canopies has been completed and that a contract has been concluded. The cleaning of the canopies can begin as soon as the works on the platforms and the canopies are completed. The canopies will be cleaned annually. In addition, it is necessary to put the overhead contact line out of tension. The station in Leuven is indeed maintained systematically. For example, escalators and elevators are maintained six times a year and inspected four times a year. All platforms and underpasses are also cleaned daily. The work on platform 1 is in full swing. At the beginning of December, the rebuilt platform 1A side Brussels was hired and the side Tien was closed. This phase will last until May 2018. With the help of temporary signalling, the passengers are led to the platforms. The escalators in the underpass side of Brussels are all operational. The escalators in the underpass side Tienen are the oldest and indeed show the most often defects. SNCB informs us that they are currently working.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-19-54-commissie-ic787x.u87	Thank you, Minister, for the full answer. It remains important to focus on communication with the traveller. After all, this reduces a great deal of frustration and uncertainty. I therefore believe that this remains a working point.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-19-54-commissie-ic787x.u88	Madam President, Minister, I come today with a question about centrists, not politicians but drivers on motorways. We are all faced with this situation and the subject has interested me. The centrists on the highways are getting pretty excited about motorists. In this regard, the Vias Institute proposes to double the fine imposed on those who monopolize the middle band instead of falling back. The amount of the minutes could soon increase from EUR 58 to EUR 116. Indeed, this behaviour constitutes a first-degree offence under the Road Traffic Code. An attitude that can even be dangerous if the excavated motorist decides to double by the right. According to Benoit Godart, spokesman for Vias, "What is not fair is that the one who will surpass you by the right, he, will collect a fine of 116 euros (second degree). It's unfair because if it exceeds you by the right, it's that at the base there's someone who stays in the middle." Mr Minister, on the basis of this information, I would like to ask you about the conclusions of the Vias proposal. What do you think? I know that the subject is being debated in the Federal Commission for Road Safety. Is there already a timetable if follow-up is planned?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-19-54-commissie-ic787x.u89	Mr Kir, I will reply in Dutch. A few weeks ago, the Vias Institute conducted a survey showing that the middle lane occupied by drivers on the motorway is considered to be the most annoying behaviour. 27 percent of Belgian drivers mention it as a major annoyance. According to Vias Institute, this behaviour can be dangerous, because it obliges drivers driving on the right lane to perform a complicated maneuver to catch up with the vehicle. Some car drivers react to this behaviour by catching up with the middle car driver on the right, which is not only forbidden, but also dangerous. I have not yet been able to form a definitive picture of the issue. It is also advisable to know the views of the other stakeholders. The Federal Road Safety Commission is the appropriate forum for this purpose. Sensibilisation is a regionalised competence, so it is the regions that can campaign around the theme. I know of a campaign by the Flemish government on the theme in 2015. The slogan of the campaign was: don't stick to the middle strip. The Federal Road Safety Commission held its first introductory meeting yesterday. The issue of centrists has not yet been addressed. This will probably be the case at the next session in the first half of 2018. I think this will happen in the third week of February.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-19-54-commissie-ic787x.u90	Madam Chair, the minister answered the question. It is my understanding that this issue will be on the agenda of the Federal Road Safety Commission. I'll come back to the subject at that time.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-19-54-commissie-ic787x.u91	Joined Questions Nos 22397 by Mr Gautier Calomne and 22589 by Mr Gilles Foret are transformed into written questions. Mr Wouter Raskin is not present to ask his question No 22425. Question No 22435 by Mrs Catherine Fonck is transformed into a written question. Questions Nos 22473 and 22477 by Mr Laurent Devin and No 22516 by Mrs Karin Temmerman are also transformed into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-19-54-commissie-ic787x.u92	Mrs. Lahaye is not present.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-19-54-commissie-ic787x.u93	Madam President, Minister, last week there was heavy snowfall throughout our country. On the TV we saw images of all kinds of problems on the road, on bike paths and on footpaths. On the platforms, however, there were also problems due to snowfall and ice formation. Not all platforms in the stations were made snow-free, so sometimes passengers had to go on icy, smooth and dangerous platforms to take the train. Of course, that's not comfortable. Moreover, the question arises as to who is responsible if passengers slip through the snow or ice on the platform and injure themselves. In many municipalities, residents are obliged to make the footpath for their homes snow free. What about the platforms? That's what my questions are about. Mr Minister, under whose jurisdiction is snow-proofing of the platforms? What are the specific guidelines and arrangements within the SNCB Group? Who is liable for the damage if a person slips because the platform and/or the access road and/or the stairs to the platforms were not snow-free? What is the budget for the purchase of pesticides such as straw salt?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-19-54-commissie-ic787x.u94	My dear colleague, SNCB is responsible for snow-freeing the platforms. The service provided by SNCB in the event of extreme winter weather generally consists of keeping or allowing access to the stations, the stops and the station environment. This is specifically about access to the platforms and the parking facilities. For the platforms, the goal is to keep strips passable. A common winter plan of SNCB and Infrabel describes the infrastructure, equipment and human resources to keep a number of infrastructures free of snow for customers. For the platforms, SNCB can be held liable by victims of falls. However, in order to obtain compensation, it is necessary to prove either an error or negligence on the part of SNCB which is causally linked to the damage suffered or a defect due to the smoothness of the platform which makes it unfit for normal use. A mistake, negligence, lack and/or clumsiness of the depositaries is therefore a matter of fact which must be analysed in the light of local and temporary circumstances. SNCB informs me that the budget for snow removal amounts to around EUR 200 000 a year. The snow clearance, including snowblowers, and the scattering of salt are done both by the own staff and by private companies. SNCB itself buys EUR 35 000 per year in salt, representing 265 tonnes.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-19-54-commissie-ic787x.u95	Thank you for your reply, Minister. So you confirm that the responsibility lies with SNCB. You pointed out that there were also cases: EUR 200 000 per year and 265 tonnes of salt. That is not a bad thing, but in my own station I had to observe that the platforms and stairs were slippery and that the action by SNCB was limited to calling for the announcement that attention had to be paid to the smooth stairs. I realize that it is difficult to respond to ice formation and snowfall at every stop, but perhaps there is a solution in the resolution we have adopted here to improve the use of station buildings. One could possibly make concessions for train points, by analogy with the postal points. Keeping the platforms snow free could be imposed on the concessionary in places where there is also a station.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-19-54-commissie-ic787x.u96	Madam President, Minister, I asked the Minister of the Interior about this last week. He gave me some answers and sent me back to you. In particular, he said that "it was up to the Minister of Mobility to take initiatives to amend the law". He added that he was referring me to you "for more information on the progress made in this file. The needs of the police have been taken into account, but it is up to Mr. Bellot to complete the work". Your spokesman said in the press: "A working group met in order to reflect on how to adapt the legal text in order to adapt to the needs and reality of the field. We have received a first proposal from the Minister of the Interior to amend the law. But the text has not yet been finalized. We asked him to refine it so he could work on it. This includes seeing where the dash cam will be placed. Minister, could you keep me up to date on the status of the legislative amendment and the timing of its implementation allowing the use of dash cams? When did the last contacts with the stakeholders date? Where are we with the working group? Do you already have any conclusions? What will be the main traffic offences?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-19-54-commissie-ic787x.u97	Dear colleague, the use of dash cams as mobile cameras by the police is governed by the law on cameras, which, as you have indicated, is within the competence of the Minister of the Interior. Road regulations per se do not prohibit the use of technical means such as cameras to detect infringements in the presence of a qualified person. Only offences found by automatic devices operating without a qualified agent must be designated by Royal Decree. In this case, we are talking about qualified agents. A draft royal decree is being prepared to extend the list of offences that can be detected by automatic devices in the absence of a qualified agent such as non-compliance with signal F117 (low emission zone), article 17.6 (no overtaking of trucks of more than 7 and a half tonnes per rain time), signs C21 and C23 (exceeding the maximum permissible weights and prohibition of vehicles intended or used for the transport of things) and non-compliance with traffic light signals placed above traffic bands or part of the highway (section 62.2). That's for the road code part. The rest is the responsibility of my colleague from the interior. A working group is working on these issues to find out who is doing what. In any case, the draft royal decree that I have just indicated falls within my jurisdiction and the work is under way.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-19-54-commissie-ic787x.u98	Minister, your precision is clear and essential. In my view, we have seen a quiproquo resulting from a lack of explanation. Of course, you must intervene within the framework of your powers, but is the "cameras" law the responsibility of the Minister of the Interior or the Secretary of State for the Protection of Privacy?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-19-54-commissie-ic787x.u99	When a qualified officer is posted next to the camera, the camera is considered to be a simple means of providing evidence. The qualified agent is enough. On the other hand, when it is placed in the absence of any qualified agent, for example when a heavy-duty truck embarks on a street limited to three and a half tons, it is through the royal decree that I must make arrangements with my colleague from Justice. In this case, the issue must be resolved together and how to provide sufficient evidence to demonstrate that a vehicle is in contravention. Clearly, the dash cam in a vehicle is not a problem. If the qualified officer is present, he is the one who signs the document, in a way. In his absence, the category of offences covered by this method must be precisely identified in a royal decree.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-19-54-commissie-ic787x.u100	Minister, I would like to ask you one more question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-19-54-commissie-ic787x.u101	One more!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-19-54-commissie-ic787x.u102	Should the law be amended to equip the police vehicles with dash cams?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-19-54-commissie-ic787x.u103	It is the "cameras" law that needs to be amended, because it defines fixed points only installed on the public road. On the other hand, in the case of a dash cam, the vehicle will turn right or left and inevitably go to private places.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-19-54-commissie-ic787x.u104	This was therefore reflected in the Privacy Act.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-19-54-commissie-ic787x.u105	It is up to the "cameras" law, since it is also concerned with respect for privacy, to regulate the use of dash cam by the police. On the other hand, when this last means is used in cases covered by the Road Code, the law "cameras" must be respected pure and hard. The difference between a dash cam and a camera as we hear it is that, in one case, the tool is removable and, in the other, not. It is therefore important to respect the rules on public roads.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-19-54-commissie-ic787x.u106	Therefore, the use of the dash cam is regulated by the "cameras" law, the application of which came to the attention of the Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-19-54-commissie-ic787x.u107	Mr Kir, perhaps we should ask the Secretary of State for Privacy.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-19-54-commissie-ic787x.u108	It's perfect. On the other hand, Minister, the use of Dash Cam without a qualified agent falls within your jurisdiction as well as that of the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-19-54-commissie-ic787x.u109	Yes.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-19-54-commissie-ic787x.u110	It's perfect. We will certainly come back after the New Year.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-19-54-commissie-ic787x.u111	Before New Year's Eve!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-19-54-commissie-ic787x.u112	Mr Minister, I am addressing a serious issue here, that of the rise in offences for driving under the influence of drugs. For more than twenty years, the Vias Institute has been providing training to convicted offenders under alternative sentences. During these trainings, their trainers interactively raise awareness of the risks associated with their behaviour among small groups of participants, and together they seek alternatives to this behaviour. Since 2012, the Vias Institute has given a separate module on "Drugs in traffic" in some boroughs. We are one of the few European countries to provide this type of training. More than 1100 candidates have already followed. An analysis of their profile shows that more than half of them were between the ages of 18 and 25. In three quarters of cases, they were convicted of driving cannabis; 12 per cent of them had taken amphetamines and 9 per cent had taken cocaine. What measures have been taken since 2014 to combat the rise in driving-related offences under the influence of drugs? What were the planned budgets? Do alternative punishments have an impact on recidivistic behaviour? What do you get from it?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-19-54-commissie-ic787x.u113	Colleagues, as I mentioned in a previous question, the increase in drug driving offences is certainly linked to the proliferation of synthetic drugs, popular among young people, but also to the introduction of the salivary test, in 2011, which facilitated the controls and the increased importance given by the police to this problem. In fact, in the National Security Plan (PNS) and in the police's zonal security plans, alcohol and drug driving are a priority theme. In the annual BOB campaigns, more and more attention is being paid to this issue. In addition, the number of tests made available to the police by the courts is increasing every year. In 2017, the number of salivary tests made available to the police was doubled from 18,000 to 36,000 in one year. With regard to other drug-specific measures, I will mention a project on salivary drug testing, to be used after a positive salivary test, and the implementation of the blood test on which justice works and which will further facilitate controls. The budget for salivary tests and analyses is the responsibility of my colleague from Justice. With regard to the impact of Vias' training on offenders convicted under alternative sentences, the rates of recidivism and intent to change behaviour were studied. Although the findings of the evaluation studies tend to show some impact on behavioural change, the effectiveness of rehabilitation training cannot be clearly defined in terms of reducing recidivism. Some evaluations indicate a positive effect on behaviour, accident rate and recidivism, while others show no or very little effect. This being the case, studies conclude that rehabilitation training is more effective when combined with deprivation of driving rights and not replacement.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-19-54-commissie-ic787x.u114	Minister, thank you for your full answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-19-54-commissie-ic787x.u115	Minister, according to a press article on rtl.be, some truckers do not hesitate to borrow several traffic bands to overtake other vehicles despite the difficult weather conditions on the roads. According to Olivier Quisquater, spokesman for the Federal Road Police: "The prohibition applies, in the case of vehicles and trains of vehicles of more than 7.5 tonnes, in the case of precipitation in the broad sense, to exceed on motor vehicles, on motorways and on roads with four or more bands". Worse still, whatever the circumstances, the use of the third band is never allowed for heavy goods vehicles, but the police can only verbalize if they take a driver in flagrante delicto. So, you're going to harden the law. Mr Minister, on the basis of this information, I would like to ask you the following questions. What are your current proposals for tougher regulations for heavy goods vehicles? What initiatives are you planning to take to impose more severe penalties on drivers of trucks crossing the red line? According to a road police officer, the small amount of the fine would not encourage officers, already understaffed, to intercept heavy goods vehicles, the control for almost half an hour. He says: "If the fine were raised to 174 euros, there would easily be ten times more verbalization. The ANPR cameras are useless because the majority of vehicles are registered in the Eastern countries." What are your considerations in this regard?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-19-54-commissie-ic787x.u116	Ladies and gentlemen, I shall propose to a Council of Ministers in January this year a draft royal decree which classifies as second-degree offences the fact, for a heavy truck, of exceeding in precipitation times. In concrete terms, the immediate collection of this offence will increase from EUR 58 to EUR 116. In addition, it will be possible to detect this offence in an automated manner, since the Royal Decree of 18 December 2002 determining the offences whose finding based on physical evidence provided by the apparatus operating automatically in the absence of a qualified agent is authentic until proof to the contrary will also be adapted to that effect. This is the famous royal decree I told you about. The fact that a heavy-duty vehicle runs on the third traffic band of a motorway can be considered to be travelling on a prohibited track within the meaning of Directive 413 of 2015, known as cross-border. For this offence, it is therefore possible to obtain the data of the holder of the registration plate through the Eucaris automated exchange system. It is true that the other prohibitions on overtaking are not covered by the Directive. This is a concern that I have already communicated to the European authorities. I hope to get some progress on this if a revision of the directive is envisaged in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-19-54-commissie-ic787x.u117	Mr President, for my part, the incident is closed. I thank the minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-19-54-commissie-ic787x.u118	Debates of the European Parliament Question No 225, by Mr Calomne 22554 by Mrs Galant. Questions Nos 22615 and 22624 by Mrs Jadin, Question No Question No 22639 by Mrs Grovonius: Questions Nos 22649 and 22650 by Mr Van den Bergh Mrs Fonck's 22661 will be converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-19-54-commissie-ic787x.u119	Mr President, Minister, on 17 November this year the launch of a single access portal for noise complaints in Brussels was announced. According to the Brussels Minister of the Environment, about 70% of Brusselsers consider noise to be one of the main environmental nuisances that disrupt their quality of life. Noise complaints recorded by Brussels Environment account for almost 60% of environmental complaints. In view of this, she adds: "The Brussels Region, in collaboration with other stakeholders (Brussels Environment, Brussels Mobility, STIB, SNCB and Infrabel), has developed the portal www.infobruit.brussels to build a common monitoring, observation and treatment tool in order to give the citizen a quick and effective response to the introduction of a complaint, regardless of the type of noise source." Minister, in a practical way, how will this partnership between the Brussels Region, SNCB and Infrabel work? What means are in place to ensure its success?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-19-54-commissie-ic787x.u120	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the cooperation between the Brussels Region, Infrabel and SNCB is based on agreements and on the use of channels already existing and made available to the residents of the railway infrastructure. Indeed, for many years, Infrabel's Info Riverains cell has been at the disposal of local residents in order to answer their questions and complaints about railway infrastructure, by telephone, via a free number, by e-mail or via its website. It is to this last channel that I return the portal developed by the Brussels Region: www.infobruit.brussels, so that the residents can find all the information about the current construction site or contact the Info Riverains cell for further information. The latter, with ISO 9001 certification, makes every effort to process applications in the shortest possible time, by directing complaints more quickly and directly to the services and individuals concerned.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-19-54-commissie-ic787x.u121	Minister, thank you. We see good collaboration and effective synergy between institutions to combat noise pollution.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-19-54-commissie-ic787x.u122	Minister, in an article on deredactie.be on 8 November, control operations will take place on trains and stations in the coming weeks, following a recent wave of incidents and attacks against SNCB personnel. According to your colleague Mr Franken, there have been many attacks in recent months involving people without a residence permit and, I quote from your colleague Mr Franken: "That is why we have consulted representatives of the railway police and the SNCB. In the coming weeks, many control operations will take place on the broad lines. We will take the identity of those who do not have a residence permit in order to put them in a closed centre and return them to their country of origin". In my parliamentary question of October 3 on the increase in the number of assaults on SNCB agents, you said: "The SNCB informs me that it does not carry out any census of the number of assaults according to the profile of the perpetrators. The determinant of a person dropping out of society is subjective. Such a census would also run counter to privacy legislation." Your statement is very clear. Here are my questions. What is your position with regard to your colleague's comments, which are wrong with your answer? Have these operations already taken place? If so, do you have any idea of the results of these actions? Is there any collaboration between the officers of SNCB and those of the Office of Foreigners? If so, how does it operate? What are the results? Is it the role of SNCB officers to "serve" police officers?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-19-54-commissie-ic787x.u123	Dear colleague, the article in the press was based on an erroneous press release. Not only was SNCB not aware of a possible increase in the number of attacks committed by persons without a residence permit, but it had also had no contact with the Francken firm. This was a communication error as it can happen every day; this error was subsequently corrected by Minister Franken's office. Following this article, Franken has organized meetings with my office and that of the Interior, the Office of Foreigners, the Federal Police and the SNCB. The first objective was to determine whether there was a real increase in the number of cases of illegal attacks in railway infrastructure. I would refer you to my colleague from the Interior for the answer, because neither the SNCB nor my office have a precise view of the situation. If an attack is committed in its infrastructure, SNCB calls the police and has no data on complaints and findings. The point of view of SNCB remains clear: its mission is to ensure that passengers are transported in order of transport title and not to determine their origin. The police will be called if, during a transport ticket check, people are not in order and cannot identify themselves. This practice is the rule for any undresser and does not apply in particular to undocumented persons. The SNCB also reports to the police the significant movement of persons or the crowding of persons at the stations. This concerns the undocumented. But the problem is the same for demonstrators, for example. The aim is to prevent any potential safety problems in a place considered to be public. This is about public safety. Unlike SNCB, however, the Federal Railway Police (SPC) has in its remit the fight against illegal immigration. I would also refer you here to my colleague from the Interior, if you would like to obtain details on possible police actions since the SPC falls within its competence. The Foreign Office was well represented at the meeting organized by the firm Francken. The Agency wishes to have a better picture of the situation in order to anticipate significant flows of people. There is no specific collaboration between him and SNCB. However, through the SPC, it will receive periodic information on trends in large flows of migrants observed by the police and possibly by SNCB. SNCB will in no way fulfil a police role outside of its public service tasks related to the security of the railway sector and its legal competence in the fight against unsealing and the incivilities that directly affect it. It is only in this context that Securail could be forced to lend a hand to the police.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-19-54-commissie-ic787x.u124	Minister, I would like to thank you for your answer. You have confirmed your comments and your guideline. I am therefore reassured about SNCB's missions, which are not police missions. You obviously sent me back to the Minister of the Interior, who has jurisdiction over certain matters. As far as the communication you have described as an error is concerned, we are used to dealing with this type of error with your colleague, who subsequently makes corrections either personally or through his office. I appreciate, in any case, your clarification of each other's responsibilities. I also appreciate that you were not in the game of your colleague.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-19-54-commissie-ic787x.u125	Minister, this is a positive communication. It seems to me that these developments are positive and allow SNCB and rail to be included in modernity. On metrotime.be, the first new information screens installed on SNCB trains were discussed. In fact, SNCB has begun to equip its Desiro trains, which operate in particular on the supply of S trains, new information screens. They are part of the new CEO's plan, Sophie Dutordoir, to improve information to the traveller. Minister, have these new screens ever been evaluated and improved since their appearance? Would SNCB have been aware of any problems in updating the information provided by the screens in the event of network disruptions? If so, which ones? Could you please let me know about the timing of the installation of the information screens for all 305 Desiros?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-19-54-commissie-ic787x.u126	Dear colleague, SNCB informs me that since their installation, these screens have been regularly adapted with the main objective of improving the information to passengers on board trains. These adaptations have significantly increased the speed of dissemination of information, which will be further optimized by April 2018, when screens will be significantly upgraded. This will allow the traveller to be informed more quickly, more accurately, in real time and in all circumstances. No evaluation has been conducted at this stage, according to my information.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-19-54-commissie-ic787x.u127	Mr President, I thank the minister for these elements of the response.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-19-54-commissie-ic787x.u128	Mr Minister, the renewal of the Ghent-Sint-Pieters station is once again delayed. The bids for the second phase of the renewal, for tracks 7 to 1 and the waterproofing, were apparently too expensive. That is why SNCB must now look for new contractors to reduce costs. The project will apparently also be reduced and the procurement of the works will have to be re-used in full. SNCB does not want to spend any time on the delay involved, but already announces that the works can start in August at the earliest in the beginning of January 2018 and that the entire renewed station would be ready in 2020 according to the original planning. In the meantime, architectural critic and architect Marc Dubois made comments on the budget and design by Eurostation in an open letter to SNCB. He denounces the choice of a roofing per two platforms instead of one continuous roof. The maintenance of the vertical glass walls would also be expensive. He called for a slimming of the project to reduce construction time and save money. It is clear that travellers and locals are the victims of this. Those people will have to work their way through the works for years to come. Mr Minister, what exactly were the problems with the tenders received for stage two of the Ghent-Sint-Pieters station? How much did the bids go above the planned budget? What steps will SNCB take to reduce the project? Which partners will be involved and in what way? What is the planning and timing for this? What budget is foreseen for the second phase of the work? When does SNCB intend to launch a new tender? When does SNCB intend to launch the work of the second phase and when should the work be ready? What lessons does SNCB draw from this project? What lessons do you draw from this incident?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-19-54-commissie-ic787x.u129	Mr President, SNCB informs me that a call for tenders for the second phase of the works has been launched. Due to the large deviation between estimates and tenders, the financial capacity of the construction workers SNCB and De Lijn was exceeded. For this reason, the management committees of SNCB and De Lijn have decided to stop the ongoing procurement procedure and to re-procurement. In order to obtain sufficient candidates and to increase competition, an open negotiated procedure has been chosen, with prior publication at European level. This procedure is currently under way and the result will help to influence the end date of the project. SNCB has already studied several savings measures. The new tender dossier was developed on the basis of the chosen measures. SNCB adds that as a contracting authority it cannot disclose details of the tender as it could affect the negotiations. The complexity and size of the project, combined with the realisation in a station in operation and with increasing numbers of passengers, make this an exceptional and one-off project. SNCB improves, on the basis of this project, project management and the management of investment projects, both in large projects and in smaller files.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-19-54-commissie-ic787x.u130	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I did not get an answer to the question as to what the expected delay could be for the work. I understand that a number of things still have to be done. When will the station of Ghent Saint Peters be ready? Is that in 2025? Is that in 2026? Do you have any idea? Does SNCB have any idea of that?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-19-54-commissie-ic787x.u131	I have no idea.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-19-54-commissie-ic787x.u132	Question No 54, by Mr De Pasquale Point 22668 by Mr Olivier Maingain and others, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group) Mr Raoul Hedebouw (PPE). - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-19-54-commissie-ic787x.u133	Mr President, Minister, you will certainly be interested in this subject. It's the use of smart glasses for emergency response. On 5 December last, the Vias Institute organized a day in Antwerp to study the use of innovative technologies for our safety. On this occasion, the project with smart glasses conducted at the André Renard hospital was presented. Indeed, when the emergency team at the Herstal hospital goes to the scene of an accident, one of the nurses aboard the specialized ambulance has been wearing smart glasses since April. The latter are connected to a smartphone that transmits all images through 3G/4G or wifi to the hospital. The glasses filter everything the first aider sees and sends the images encrypted at the same time. Therefore, a doctor can attend the scene from the hospital and give immediate feedback. The emergency nurse on the ground has his hands free and can follow the doctor's instructions while filming, which will allow the doctor to make a first diagnosis. For his part, the doctor can help the specialist nurse if needed. In addition, the hospital is even better prepared for the patient's arrival. As a result, a better coordinated emergency team can treat the patient more adequately. According to Tine Vandecasteeele, the "security" spokesperson of the Vias Institute, "our policemen and our firefighters could also use them. Experts at the Crisis Centre could, for example, observe in real time, through an on-site agent, events that take place during a mass demonstration. A firefighter could also ask through his glasses for a plan of a burning house. The faster you intervene, the more you save human lives or the faster you control dangerous situations. In such situations, smart glasses are valuable tools." Therefore, Mr Minister, on the basis of this pilot project and its financing, is an estimate of the technical and financial feasibility already defined by your services for a possible generalisation of its use in Belgium? If so, what would be the timetable for its implementation? If not, why not? Minister, I would like to hear your views on the experience.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-19-54-commissie-ic787x.u134	Dear colleague, first of all, I wanted to inform you that the study day that the Vias Institute organised on 5 December 2017 in Antwerp in order to present for the first time the technology of smart glasses to the personnel of first intervention (police, firefighters, paramedics, etc.) is part of the research missions carried out within the framework of its new security objectives. The study was conducted by André Renard Hospital in Herstal. According to Vias, the cost and implementation options are not yet considered. Where appropriate, this responsibility does not seem to fall within my competence, in terms of the equipment of the rescue zones.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-19-54-commissie-ic787x.u135	Are you sending me back to the Minister of the Interior?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-19-54-commissie-ic787x.u136	I think this is the Minister of the Interior. If there's any equipment, it'll be in the emergency areas. It is probably at this level that the evaluation must be carried out. I assume it's for the people in the field. Or, in the case of medical data, contact the Minister of Public Health.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-19-54-commissie-ic787x.u137	I will speak to the Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-19-54-commissie-ic787x.u138	Minister, 39,645 new cars were registered, according to information published in the press in November in Belgium. This is the same number as in the same month last year, according to the Belgian and Luxembourg Federation of Automobiles and Cycles. Since the beginning of the year, 518,486 new vehicles have been registered, an increase of 2.47% year-on-year, according to the sectoral federation. For the 36th consecutive month, light commercial vehicles continued their march forward, this time with a monthly improvement of 14.3%. Registrations of heavy-duty vehicles of less than 16 tonnes closed the month of November to a perfect balance, while registrations of heavy-duty vehicles of 16 tonnes or more increased substantially, allowing them to announce an annual increase of 4.5%, continues FEBIAC. Finally, the two-wheel market remained in line with the results of the previous months, announcing a monthly decrease of 25.6% for an annual withdrawal of 8.9%, concludes the Federation. Minister, what is your analysis of these figures? Have you been able to draw any conclusions from this? Can you explain the reasons for the increase in the number of registered vehicles?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-19-54-commissie-ic787x.u139	Ladies and gentlemen, I am aware of the current influence of media information and I would like to encourage caution. The figures you present differ significantly from the figures provided by the DIV on the website of the Mobility and Transport FPS. Thus, the number of new vehicles registered in November 2017 is 55,036 units, compared to 64,356 in November last year. The number of new vehicles registered between January 1, 2017 and November 30, 2017 is 713,981 units compared to 714,552 during the same period last year. I can conclude from this that this year there has been a slight decrease in the number of new vehicles registered. It's not much: the drop is a thousandth. With regard to the significant increase in the registration of light commercial vehicles, I note that those of the maximum permissible mass of less than 3.5 tonnes are increasingly being used for road freight transport, both nationally and internationally. This development is the result of several phenomena. This is a dramatic increase in e-commerce, but also in the increasing restrictions imposed on heavy goods vehicles, at European level, on tachographs, driving and rest times, on the conditions of access to the profession and on the continuing training of drivers. In addition, the kilometric taxes that have emerged in several countries, including our own, as well as urban mobility policies that tend to keep trucks away from cities. In this connection, I have also recently argued at European level that the rules applicable to heavy goods vehicles should be extended to include vans in order to avoid any distortion of competition and improve road safety; indeed, there is an increase in the number of accidents in this type of vehicle while all the others are falling, with the exception of bicycles in Brussels. We have to act. We also argued for the requirement to obtain a licence for operators of this type of gear. But this can only be done at European level. This cannot be a Belgo-Belgian strategy.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-19-54-commissie-ic787x.u140	Minister, thank you for all the figures that put reality to its full value. A report is made on commercial vehicles of less than 3.5 tonnes, which are under less pressure, while work has been carried out at European and national level on heavy goods vehicles. You say that you want to start a reflection at Belgian and European level so that we can come with a draft licence that best governs this situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-19-54-commissie-ic787x.u141	We must be aware that we have done what is called the "Roadman's Alliance" of nine European countries. This is one of the demands of the nine countries. This must be done only within a European framework. This cannot be done within a purely national framework. The Road Traffic Alliance was created to combat social dumping, improve road safety, etc. It includes France, Italy, the Netherlands, Germany, Austria, the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg and Belgium.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-19-54-commissie-ic787x.u142	Minister, according to an article on rtl.be on December 4, Pedelec mopeds, four light wheels and electric bicycles – which reach 45 km/h – were to be registered and provided with a plaque before December 11 of this year. Indeed, the other gears involved in registration are the four light wheels – such as cars without a licence and golf carts – but also the Pedelec electric bike. The new mopeds since 2015 were already to be registered. The oldest ones purchased before March 31, 2014 must now be bought, under penalty of a fine. Minister, what is your first assessment of the application of this measure? Are other initiatives on the agenda at this stage? Can you explain to us the nature of the penalties or fines provided for in case of oblivion or refusal of registration? Are they already implemented?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-19-54-commissie-ic787x.u143	Kir, the registration of new mopeds was made mandatory in 2014. A regularisation campaign was then launched on 11 December 2015, in order to register all mopeds put into circulation before 31 March 2014, so that the moped and quadricycle fleet – with the exception of Speed Pedelec – is expected to be registered since 11 December 2017. Several reasons have led to this registration. First, it allows police to monitor and identify mopeds, which have been calling for this measure for a long time. Secondly, Belgium was one of the few European countries where this type of vehicle was not to be registered. By imposing this measure, our country has thus joined the Member States and contributed to harmonisation at European level. Thirdly, and more specifically, this provision allows for better reporting in the event of a flight, thanks to the link between the chassis number and the registration plate. Finally, by issuing the plates according to moped classes A, B and Speed Pedelec, custom speed controls can now be carried out. The entry into service of an unregistered vehicle is therefore a first-degree offence. In such a case, he can therefore be prosecuted by the police. As far as the number of vehicles is concerned, I cannot give it to you at the moment, because I have not received the figures. In any case, it was not the whole park that had to be regulated.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-19-54-commissie-ic787x.u144	Of course, it's only a part of it.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-19-54-commissie-ic787x.u145	We're far from it.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-19-54-commissie-ic787x.u146	Minister, that's perfect. I think we will return in 2018 to get an assessment of the situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-19-54-commissie-ic787x.u147	Mr Minister, I am curious to hear your opinion on this subject, which I believe concerns many citizens: Touring's proposal to adapt the maximum speeds, which has been published in the press in recent days. Touring wants to adapt the maximum speeds and demands 130 km/h on certain motorways and 80 km/h on construction sites. Indeed, according to Touring, the road regulations were created at a time when neither ABS (the anti-lock system for wheels) nor the seat belt existed. Today, however, vehicles are often equipped with driving assistance but also with airbags, automatic braking systems, white strip detection systems, etc. In addition, the arrival of connected cars is expected to change the road safety situation considerably further. The demand for Touring is clear: an increase in the maximum permitted speeds. However, according to Benoît Godard, spokesman for Vias: "For the 130 km/h, it is a big no! Our recent study definitely buried him. As far as work areas are concerned, it is true that speed limits are not respected. But they are entirely justified because all the figures show that these are risk areas (...). [["]] I would like to know your views on the proposals of the Vias Institute and Touring. I imagine that they must be the subject of prior consultation.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-19-54-commissie-ic787x.u148	Dear colleague, I have read Touring's announcement calling for an increase in speed limits on motorways. It seems premature to say that speed limits can generally be revised upwards in view of the arrival of connected cars. These technologies are not yet active in all vehicles and, although they reduce the risk of accidents, speed remains one of the main causes of road accidents due to the intensity of the impact. I would also like to point out that a Vias study a few months ago, at the request of Mrs Galant, concluded that it was not recommended to increase speed on motorways on a general basis beyond 120 km/h; that it is very important to use the dynamic speed system which adapts to the fluidity and density of traffic. We see it in other countries. In all neighbouring countries, the maximum speed on motorways is 130 km/h. But systematically, when the density increases and when the fluidity is less, the limit is lowered dynamically. It is a safety factor, especially to avoid rear-stamped accidents, etc. But we are not here because there are very few motorways in Belgium where speed management is dynamic, only a few motorway sections in Flanders. The study also noted that there are places to practice 120 km/h on highways is already something extremely dangerous today. The speed is reduced. I only know two or three exceptions. The principle is yes to dynamic speed management. Vias concluded: why not raise the speed to 130 km/h in low traffic density areas and in low-accident sections, knowing that this is a decision of the road manager? The maximum speed could possibly be maintained anywhere at 120 km/h and in sections determined by the road manager it could be allowed to rise to 130 km/h in low-accident areas and with high fluidity. I also advocate the adoption of dynamic speed management to avoid accidents. For example, in the ring of Antwerp, the ring of Brussels, the E40 in the descent of Cheratte on the side of Liège. There are places where the 120 km/h is no longer a suitable speed. If we want to move forward, all this should be negotiated, with an amendment to the Highway Code to allow the manager to raise the limit to 130 km/h, but the decision would be his. This implies a modification of the C43 sign at 130 km/h, knowing that all neighbouring countries have a maximum speed of 130 km/h. The Netherlands, for example, has a dynamic speed management system. In France, this is not the case everywhere, and far from it. On the other hand, motorways are segmented between 130 km/h, 110 km/h, 90 km/h, and even 70 km/h. In our house, it's 120 km/h everywhere. The underlying principle behind Vias' conclusion is that an adapted speed is a speed that is better respected. It is obvious that when you are on a winding, steep descent road, driving at 120 km/h, and then you arrive in a straight line of five kilometers, where you don't see any cars, things are different. That is an answer. On the other hand, and this is not the request of the government or anyone else, but it will not have escaped you that in order to discharge the public prosecutor's office, the College of Attorneys General has decided to no longer sanction offences on the current sections of motorways below 137 km/h. We need to know what we want. If speeds are to be set by modulating them, the speed control shall be carried out as soon as the second or third km/h is exceeded. I know the technical rule of correction exists, but this correction is becoming weaker, because the technology is becoming more and more advanced. It is obvious that, from the moment other authorities decide that 120 is of the real 137 measured, and that between 120 and 137 it is not, I personally find, that this contradicts the principle. I am therefore very reserved on the increase if there is no control from the first two or three km/h, because this becomes problematic. We will therefore have a consultation with Touring and Vias, if possible. We will pass through the Auto Show and all the agitation that accompanies this event for the automotive sector, as this event is sufficiently busy for all stakeholders.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-19-54-commissie-ic787x.u149	Mr Minister, first of all I would like to thank you for this umpteenth answer. The Vias proposal, which you have recalled here, seems to me to be indeed relevant and coherent: dynamic speed management, adapted to reality, provided of course that the infrastructure itself also adapts. This idea is very interesting because it can stick closely to reality and be located in proximity, instead of appearing in a theoretical model that locks us in. I advise you to continue on this path and to work in the framework of the consultation.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-19-54-commissie-ic787x.u150	Question No 22677, No 22683 and No 22684 by Mr Hedebouw 22686 by Mrs Caprasse, were postponed to another meeting. Its treatment will be for 2018.
