ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic682x.u1	Minister, I wanted to question you following an article published in the newspaper on the 28 security, justice and defence measures taken by the government on 14 May during an extraordinary Council of Ministers in Val Duchess. Among these measures, in the area of road safety, one has caught my attention. The government has detailed for whom the anti-start ethylometer, the alcolock, can be imposed, as early as the second half of this year. These will be drivers above 1.8 grams per litre and repeat offenders above 1.2 grams per litre. More severe penalties will be imposed in case of an offence of escape after injury or death, driving without a permit or under influence. Conversely, a tax incentive will be introduced for bikers in 2018 to purchase protective equipment. I would therefore like to ask you the following questions, Minister. How much do you think these new measures will contribute to improving road safety? What budget is provided for this purpose? Could you provide an overview of the amounts that will be allocated to the various federal public services? When and how do you intend to organize an information and awareness campaign on this subject? Can you specify the nature of the penalties for the offence of escape after injury or death, driving without a licence or under influence? Will these penalties affect recidivism? Finally, how much will be the tax incentive for bikers to benefit from the purchase of protective equipment? Thank you in advance for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic682x.u2	Mr President, honourable Member, excuse me first of all for my slight delay. The measures envisaged in the draft law to improve road safety include the fight against alcohol while driving, increased punishment of the offences of flight with injured or dead and driving without a valid driver's licence, as well as the recurrence of such offences. It is essential that for the most serious offences, measures be taken to reduce the risk of committing them or to prevent the offender from continuing to engage in dangerous behaviour. This is particularly the case for driving alcohol, which accounts for 25% of all deaths on our roads. Road safety would certainly be significantly improved if drivers who had been checked with excessive alcohol consumption could only drive with vehicles equipped with an anti-start ethylotest. Since offenders have to cover the costs of the mentoring program themselves, no budget has been provided by the SPF. In article 33 of the Law on the Road Traffic Police, which deals with the offences of flight, only a distinction is made between an accident with material damage and an accident with bodily injury or fatal outcome. Since this is a wide variety of situations, ranging from a slight injury to death, it has been chosen to make a finer distinction in the draft law: an offence of escape with bodily injury will be punished by a fine of 3 200 to 40,000 euros and/or a prison sentence of 15 days to three years, with a forfeiture of at least three months to five years, or on a definitive basis. An offence of escape resulting in an accident with a fatal outcome will be punished by a fine of 3,200 to 40,000 euros and a prison sentence of 15 days to four years, with an equivalent driving licence being revoked. As far as driving without a valid licence is concerned, in the future the judge may sentence the driver without a driver's licence to a prison term of eight days to two years – which will be new – and to a fine of 1,600 to 16,000 euros, which is already provided for by law. In the past, it has been found that a small group of problematic offenders continued to drive despite a revocation of the right to drive, even without ever obtaining a driver's licence, accumulating revocation upon revocation. These offenders can now also be sentenced to imprisonment, which is a measure of protection for society. In case of recidivism, the offender driving without a valid driver's licence could even be sentenced to up to four years' imprisonment. Acting more firmly against this type of offence means acting more firmly against the most dangerous recidivists. The Mobility FPS will communicate on this bill, as soon as it has been approved by Parliament. The fiscal stimulus you are referring to is not part of the bill. Following the extraordinary Council of Ministers of Security of 14 May 2017, having decided, among other things, to create a tax incentive for the purchase of protective equipment for bikers, a working group was set up to deepen this subject with the cabinet of the Minister of Finance. I cannot therefore yet comment on the budgetary effects of this measure. Nevertheless, I fully support this project, which aims to improve the safety of motorcyclists. In fact, wearing pants and boots reduces the risk of serious lower body injuries by 68% and wearing a leather jacket and gloves reduces the risk of serious injuries to hands and wrists by 48%. As far as anti-start alcolocks are concerned, I would like to add that, in the cases foreseen – here I am thinking of the fines applied in the case of a person being checked, for the first time, with more than 1.8 grams of alcohol in the blood; and in the case of a recidivism where a person is checked with 1.2 grams in the blood – the cost of placing the car's alcolock is equivalent to the cost of the fine already applied today. Alcolock is often claimed to be expensive equipment. It should be borne in mind that today the fines imposed on those convicted of having 1.8 grams of alcohol in the blood can be as high as €6,000, while the placement of an alcohol block with all related training is estimated at around €3,000. But the bill will, of course, be discussed in our committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic682x.u3	Thank you, Minister. You have been very comprehensive for most questions. I will focus on one point and thank you for all the elements you have provided on the bill and on the working group. I will focus on the information and awareness campaign. You did not answer the second question on this point. Do you intend to organize such a campaign or is it in progress? You can answer me in writing if you do not have the answers now.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic682x.u4	It is important to know that these materials are regionalized. Campaigns are regionalized; the posters you see along roads and highways and TV spots are campaigns that are now the responsibility of the Regions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic682x.u5	But they are done in collaboration with the federal government.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic682x.u6	They are done regularly with the AWSR, and with the Flemish correspondent and we discuss them regularly to try to have campaigns common to all regions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic682x.u7	Minister, last December, the Belgian Institute for Road Safety conducted a unique study, commissioned by Pearle Opticiens, entitled "Experimental analysis of the impact of limited visual acuity on driving thanks to a simulator". Indeed, the view is an essential element in traffic. Although 90 per cent of driving information is visual, 8 per cent of drivers wearing glasses do not always recognize that they are wearing them. However, it is very important to have a good view at the wheel so that, among other things, the reaction time is as short as possible in case of sudden obstacles on the road. In addition, it is also desirable to have a pair of custom replacement glasses or suitable sunglasses in the car. This is even required by law in some European countries. However, only 43% of drivers surveyed with correction acknowledged that they had a pair of corrective sunglasses. If they have a pair of uncorrected sunglasses, they lose part of their optimal view. Without sunglasses, they also risk dazzling by the low rays of the sun. Over the past five years, there have been an average of 660 accidents with low sun injuries. Minister, have you drawn any conclusions from this study? Will it lead to concrete actions, projects or political initiatives? Do you see the value of encouraging the wearing of custom replacement glasses or suitable sunglasses in the car, for example through an information and awareness campaign, in collaboration with the Regions, in order to reduce the number of accidents? How many people in Belgium were selected to participate in this survey? What is the breakdown by age, sex, region? How much did this study cost? How was it developed? What was the methodology used?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic682x.u8	Dear colleague, the IBSR study was commissioned and funded by Pearle Opticiens. This is not a public study but a contract study commissioned and financed by a private firm. As the IBSR has not received the client's consent to disclose the amount, I cannot provide you with the cost of this study. Initially, no concrete action of political initiative was planned. However, the results stressed the importance of raising awareness among drivers of the need to have a good view without having to change the regulations in force. It should be recalled that the Belgian rules on driving licences are in line with the European rules, which provide for a visual acuity of five tenths of a month alongside other criteria relating to visual field and twilight vision. The IBSR and Pearle jointly issued a press release on the study, including a recommendation for drivers to have and wear suitable eyeglasses and sunglasses, but no further dissemination of information on this issue was planned by the IBSR. It should also be noted that since 1 July 2014, the Regions have been competent for awareness-raising campaigns. The basis of the survey was an online survey of a representative sample of 1,000 people across the country. From this sample, drivers who have driven a car on a journey of at least 3,000 kilometres over the last 12 months and who have a far-reaching correction of 400 people have received specific questions about the possession and wearing of glasses.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic682x.u9	Minister, thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic682x.u10	We haven't heard from Mrs. Dumery.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic682x.u11	At the beginning of May, Minister, you announced that the price of a personalised number plate would be reduced to EUR 1 000. In December 2015, this price was raised to EUR 2 000. In a first phase, until November 2010, such a license plate cost 620 euros. It is reported that since the price increase, the number of applications fell to 100 to 200 per month, while there were previously 360 to 740 applications per month. The price increase will undoubtedly be related to this decrease, but according to the FPS Mobility there are also fewer and fewer letter combinations available. Minister, four years ago, your predecessor gave me the following information on the number of number plates issued and the proceeds: 2 669 in 2009, with a yield of EUR 1.83 million; 2 361 in 2010, with a yield of EUR 1.74 million; 2 029 in 2011, with a yield of EUR 1.67 million; 3 640 in 2012, with a yield of EUR 3.37 million. Mr Minister, I have the following questions. Is the decision to bring the price for a personalised number plate back to EUR 1 000 final? If so, when does it enter into force? If not, what's the timing? How many personalised number plates have been issued since 2013 and what was the return each time? How many applications have been refused in recent years? What were the main reasons for that?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic682x.u12	Ladies and gentlemen, I have indeed decided to reduce the price of the personalised registration plates from EUR 2 000 to EUR 1 000. The time will depend on the decision-making procedure, currently at the consultation stage, which is unlikely to be completed by the summer. I expect the new fees granted this year in the autumn. In November 2015, the price of the personalised license plates was increased to 2 000 euros. Since then, there has been a more than proportional decline in the number of personalised license plates delivered, so the revenue on this article has decreased. See Annex. I'll give you the attachment. By re-equivalenting the fee to the amount for the price increase in 2015, the aim is to raise revenue again to the level of the same period. After all, things were mishandled. It would have been more advisable to set a higher rate from the outset and to deliver the most requested combinations at this price. Depending on the decrease in sales and the reduction in receipts, since the combinations still available cannot necessarily count on the same interest, the price of the plates could have been reduced gradually. In accordance with the provisions of Article 1 of the Law of 16 March 1968 on the police on road traffic, the draft decision will be submitted to a Council of Ministers requiring agreement from the Minister for the Budget in any event. Estimating sales figures for the personalised license plates is not easy. Since only the Board of Registration Vehicles offers this product, a comparison with other providers is not possible. It can only rely on the history of its own sales figures. These showed that the personalised registration plate really turns out to be a luxury product subject to the following economic law: in the event of a price change, a more than proportional effect can be expected on the quantity sold, such as the relatively heavy decline after the doubling of the fee. For an estimate of the budgetary impact, we assume the ideal scenario in the case of the same conditions, whereby, when the fee is returned to the previous amount of EUR 1 000, the sale of personalised registration plates will increase more than proportionally and ultimately the number will approximate from the period before November 2015. Consequently, revenue will also rise again to the level of the abovementioned period.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic682x.u13	Mr President, I would like to thank the Minister for his reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic682x.u14	Debates of the European Parliament 18587 of myself is converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic682x.u15	Mr President, Minister, after months of discussion, an agreement has finally been reached on the investment plan of the Infrabel network operator. The investment plan has yet to be approved by the government, but it is said in chambers that this is nothing more than a formality. The federal government decided to borrow a billion dollars for the railroad. Of that billion, Flanders can use 368 million for new railway lines. You mentioned that you want to sit with your fellow Minister Weyts before the summer to agree on which projects the money will be invested in. Firstly, what projects will you put forward as policy priorities? Secondly, will you advocate the necessary further investment in the third rail link between Bruges and Dudzele on the basis of the further opening of the Bruges Sea Port, to your colleague, Minister Weyts?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic682x.u16	Mr President, spending on the additional funding of EUR 1 billion on regional priorities was one of the items on the agenda for yesterday's ECCM meeting on 6 June. In this context, I have pro-actively communicated some possible orientations in order to obtain the views of the three regions in this regard. Furthermore, I do not wish to comment until I have received the opinions of the Regions. At the committee meeting on 17 May several questions were put to me on this subject, but these questions were then converted into written questions. However, the answer I had prepared at the time remains valid. I'll get it to you on this. In that reply, among other things, it is said that Infrabel increased the funding for bringing the Ghent-Brugge track to four tracks by EUR 38 million in its 2017-2020 multi-annual investment plan. It follows the decision of the Council of Ministers of 31 March. This indicates that there is a desire to bring the works in question to a successful conclusion.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic682x.u17	Mr Minister, I have not really been given any clarity, or I have not understood it correctly. I actually asked if funds will be made available for Bruges-Dudzele up to the seaport of Bruges and I hear you talking about the Ghent-Brugge connection, but then one still has to go from Bruges to Zeebrugge. So I don't understand that very well. Can I be assured that additional investment will also be made in the third track? That was actually the question. Are you with Minister Weyts on this?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic682x.u18	At yesterday's meeting, the Regions expressed needs. The first need was to complete the ongoing projects. There are ongoing projects that SNCB and Infrabel must complete. For the other projects, we consult the Regions and it is clear that we will take account of the regional priorities expressed in Flanders, Brussels and Wallonia. It is therefore in this spirit of consultation that I wish to go, but I have also heard some ministers who would like to take my place in deciding. That's no! I do not decide for the Flemish Region in autoroutous matters. The final decision will therefore rest with the federal government, in which all the actors are found. So this is my state of mind. I opened the door to consultation, but that doesn't mean we'll decide instead of the federal government.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic682x.u19	Mr Minister, you have chosen to impose the alcohol lock on drivers with a promille of more than 1.8 g/l or who recidivate from 1.2 g/l. The police judges are more in favour of a driving licence with points. Moreover, such an obligation reduces their margin of discretion. You have asked your administration and the BIVV to examine the effectiveness and feasibility of the driving licence with points. The results of this study are expected at the end of this year. Did you also order a study on the effectiveness of alcohol locks? Will they effectively lead to fewer fatal accidents? When can the outcome of this study be expected? If you have not ordered a study on the usefulness of alcohol locks, on what elements did you decide to take that measure? You will require drivers to have an alcohol lock, but you have not been waiting for the results of the study on the points driving licence. Why not?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic682x.u20	Minister, on 18 May the BIVV announced the results of the long-awaited study following the introduction of variable speed limits on the Belgian motorways. The BIVV concludes that variable........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The BIVV also notes that it would be possible to increase the speed limit to 140 km/h between 10 p.m. and 6.00 p.m. on less busy motorways. But the decision is that the benefits do not outweigh the disadvantages. I have the impression that you read the study of the BIVV in your own way. You want to provide for the possibility of increasing the maximum speed to 130 km/h in traffic-free and non-accident-sensitive zones. In the plenary session of 18 May, you referred to the situation in our neighbouring countries. France, in particular, seems to be your guide country in that respect. It is true that in France there are relatively fewer road deaths. However, as Mr Poncelet pointed out in the plenary session of 18 May, the French and Belgian road infrastructure and road density cannot be compared. Another difference is the driver's mentality. I quote from the study of the BIVV: "Automobilisers lay their own higher limits. Belgians tend to lower speed limits and underestimate the risks of speed, which will increase the risk and severity of accidents." Another difference is that in France there is a driving licence with points. In a recent 2015 literature study, the BIVV concluded that it could help to increase road safety: "A driving licence with points mainly affects drivers' attitudes and behaviour. Just in this area, we score lower in our country than in our neighbouring countries, such as excessive speed, drunk driving, seat belts, and it can be seen as one of the most important factors for the number of accidents and road accidents." Mr Minister, since you take road safety seriously, I do not understand two things. Firstly, you would like to increase the speed limit to 130 km/h, which is not recommended by the BIVV and, secondly, you are critical of the driving licence with points. You say you are waiting for a study, but there is already a study, which dates back to 2015. I don't understand why there should be another study. There are also practical examples. You will find France a guide country, but not in all areas. In that you are very selective. As Mrs Dumery also said, you want a study for one measure and not for the other, you simply enter it. Firstly, can you give me an update on the investigation into the introduction of the driving licence with points? Secondly, what are the chances that the driving licence with points under this legislature will be put into practice? Finally, in the margins of the Super-Ministery Council, in addition to the measures announced, such as the alcohol lock, do you have any other plans and proposals to increase road safety rather than reduce it?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic682x.u21	From 2003 to 2006, the BIVV coordinated a European Commission-supported pilot project on the alcohol lock, in which, in addition to a literature study, several practical tests were carried out in different countries and in different target groups. There is a general scientific consensus that the imposition of an alcohol lock will lead to a significant reduction of 40% to 95% of the drug-driving recurrence compared to traditional measures such as the revocation of the right to direct and/or impose fines. Although the positive impact only applies, as long as the alcohol lock remains installed in the vehicle, according to the SWOV fact sheet alcohol lock 2014. In addition to an ongoing comparative study on the points system of some European countries, my administration, together with the BIVV, is investigating the feasibility and effectiveness of the driving licence with points in Belgium. This study should show the financial and operational implications for the FPS Mobility and Transport and for the FPS Justice, as well as the costs and benefits of road safety compared to other measures. The timing for implementing a driving licence with points is linked to the results of the ongoing study. The introduction of an alcohol lock programme is, in principle, completely complementary to a possible driving licence with points. Therefore, it is not necessary to await the outcome of the assessment of the driving licence with points. In addition to the measures announced to reduce driving under the influence of alcohol and repeated driving in this area by requiring the court to impose an alcohol lock, the heavier punishment of driving without a driving licence, the crime of escape and the recidivism in general, the tightening up of the liability of the holder of the registration plate to prevent impunity, I plan to review the road code in general so that it is better known and respected and experiments with automated vehicles, which should prevent traffic-secure behaviour, would be promoted.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic682x.u22	Thank you, Minister, for your comprehensive answer, which dealt with all the aspects currently under consideration. Tackling recidivism and increasing road safety is an en-en-story. In the meantime, two years ago, we had a visit from the police judges. Then they brought their story very comprehensively. If you think that France and the Netherlands are guide countries, I can assure you that the police judges in our country are also guides based on their experience in dealing with recidivism and improving road safety. They expressed opinions on the entire arsenal, including the alcohol lock, the driving licence with points and the penalty measurements available to them. It was a very interesting hearing. In my view, if we are to know what legislative work needs to be done, you should take the report forward. According to them, the alcohol lock will indeed help to prevent recurrence. However, they were rather in favour of the driving licence with points. For us, it is rather strange that you give priority to an obligation on the alcohol lock, rather than what the police judges prescribe, namely the driving licence with points. I follow with my group the legislative work on this issue. You can count on our support in advance. Again, it's an en-en-story. In addition to the alcohol lock, we expect a driving licence with points.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic682x.u23	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. Let us be clear that we will support any measure that promotes road safety. I also agree with Mrs Dumery's remarks. I do not understand at all that you, on the one hand, are thinking of an increase in speed limits, and apparently you did not need a literature study for that. On the other hand, you are very reluctant to introduce a driving licence with points. However, it has been shown very clearly that it is effective for that scored driving licence. The BIVV says about the increased speed limit to 130 km/h that the risk increases and the severity of the accidents also increases. In addition, there is higher emissions of polluting gases, very limited time savings and a very limited impact on mobility. I therefore believe that there are other priorities. I do not understand when the study on driving licences will be completed with points and when we can expect them here in Parliament. I would like to have an answer to that.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic682x.u24	I would like to answer on two levels. I invite you to read the IBSR study on speed. What's she saying? It was Jacqueline Galant who asked how, using variable speeds, one could improve fluidity and road safety. Consideration may be given to increasing the maximum speed to 130 per hour and reducing it to 110 per hour when it rains. Today, it's 120 everywhere, when it rains, in turns, in descents, everywhere. What does the study say? She draws several conclusions. First result: it is imperative in this country, in high density sections, to use variable speeds to improve fluidity and to reduce the number of killed by 40. Second thing: the IBSR says that nothing prevents, in non-accidental sections, and with good fluidity, from increasing the speed to 130 per hour. This will have no effect on the number of people killed. Because we are talking about anything: François Bellot, Minister of Mobility, does not ask that we raise all the maximum speeds to 130! He simply says: "Why not, in non-accidental and fluid sections, go up to 130 km/h?" I'm not for 137. I'm for a 131-mile-on-hour check. I'd like to, but everyone has a job. I am in charge of Mobility and others are in charge of the Interior and others of Justice. The second element is the point permit. In France, they established this. It's gone down. But look at the latest statistics on the number of deaths in France and ask yourself how many people are subject to a licence withdrawal. In England, 40 per cent of people with a licence withdrawal are driving today. In France, 23% of people who are affected by the withdrawal of permits continue to circulate. Why do we want the alcolock, the ethylotest anti-start? Because the Dutch study shows that people who are 1.8% controlled have already been checked, in 75% of cases, in drunk driving. Today, the rule is that 1.8 is a licence withdrawal for three to six months, and a fine of 3,000 to 9,000 euros. What is the advantage of the alcolock? It's not about removing the permit. The withdrawal of permits, according to police judges, is a social and labour-related sanction. There are people who lose their jobs as a result of this, and this does not anticipate anything, it is not a preventive measure. With the anti-start ethylometer, you must no longer be intoxicated, but you can start running again the next day or the next month. All Dutch studies have shown that people who used to drink and drive have recovered 90% of their drinking and driving habits, thanks to this system. I'm going to study, from the results of the IBSR... For the point permit, the IBSR was tasked – as I said last year in September – to conduct a benchmarking study on the point permit and to finalize a behavioural study of the results. I will conduct this study on point permits such as the one made on speed. I'm trying to figure out where they are. The speed study took almost a year, but only one page on the twenty-two was retained: the Minister of Mobility wants the 130 km/h generalized. No! It's localized. Let's be very clear! You have seen the results of the Road Safety Barometer: we still have a 15% decrease. My goal is to reach 420 by 2020. But let everyone take responsibility! I have also proposed other measures, on other target audiences, and I have not been followed. I regret this because it represents 40 deaths in Belgium. At some point, all measures must be followed up. I am not leaving about, but studies that demonstrate the effects of a proposed measure on the number of people killed on the road. I hope that together we will achieve these results. And if it has to go through the point permit for that, I really want to have this study that you have asked for – it is quite normal that I respond to the wishes of parliamentarians, especially since it is also ours – which will objective the possible choices to be made. But I would point out to you that the measures we have just taken in the "special safety government" are aimed at particular niches of people who cause a great deal of serious accidents. I therefore really wanted, through this intervention, to provide additional light and sometimes to rectify because I had the impression, to read the press, that the Minister of Mobility wanted 130 km/h everywhere, point. No, clearly no. An adapted speed is a respected speed. A speed adapted to the location is observed. I'm sorry, but when I'm on the highway, I get downhill, in curves, and it's 120, and then there's a straight line of seven kilometers where there's no car, there's a problem. Turns and descents shouldn't be... I'm getting the information from the IBSR: we'll have the point permit study at the end of the year.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic682x.u25	Mr. Secretary, I understand your emotional response.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic682x.u26	I don't react emotionally.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic682x.u27	That came across to me in such a way, and it's just as well. It is a very sensitive issue, namely road safety and the attempt of all of us to ensure more safety and fewer road deaths. I note that the debate is getting wider than the questions we have asked. That is a good thing. You said you'd force the alcohol lock. The judges already have the opportunity to impose it, but they still do far too little. I am very much looking forward to the study you have ordered and to the studies you have at your disposal to assess whether the measures taken lead to more alcohol locks being imposed. It is still the power of the police judge to judge in a specific case whether or not he can impose an alcohol lock. Furthermore, the licence has points in the coalition agreement. A study has been ordered on this subject. I'm impatient, but I'm trying to wait patiently. As far as variable speeds are concerned, studies indicate that the number of deaths in the Netherlands has increased by increasing speed to 130 km/h. That's a perverse effect we're not aiming for. Traffic must be able to go smoothly, but in a safe way.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic682x.u28	Thank you, Minister, for the additional explanation. However, I would like to correct a number of things. I don't have anything against the alcohol lock. I set the speed increase to 130 km/h against the driving licence with points. As far as the alcohol lock is concerned, the police judges have made it very clear that they prefer a driving licence with points over the alcohol lock. For me, that may be an en-en-story, that's no problem. I repeat that I will support any measure that promotes road safety. I never said you want to enter 130 km/h everywhere. I said very clearly that the BIVV study is down for a variable speed, not up. The increase to 130 km/h is only for the routes without major traffic congestion and then between 10 p.m. and 6 p.m. in the night. I would add that the same research report from the BIVV says very clearly that the benefits do not outweigh the disadvantages, even if the increase is introduced on those limited roads and only at night. The disadvantages relate in particular to road safety. There is an increase in the risk of accidents, increased emissions of polluting gases and only very limited time savings. Mr Minister, you do not have to listen, I can simply give you my reservations and then you must say nothing more. The BIVV report therefore makes it very clear that there is a very limited time savings and a very limited impact on mobility. Why on earth would we introduce the 130 km/h on these limited routes, if the benefits do not outweigh the disadvantages at all? The disadvantages lie in road safety. Mr Minister, I would like to end with a positive note. If you take measures that effectively promote road safety, we will certainly welcome them. Perhaps more thought should be given to route control. You gave the example of the control: 120 must also be 120, or 130 also 130. Well, in the route control applied here and there, one can calculate the average speed. If you make the comparison with France, then there is effectively the problem of control. That's the way it is in everything. You should not weigh the driving licence with points against that. I think it is indeed an en-en-story, as you said, and that we should explore all possibilities.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic682x.u29	We have spent a long time thinking about this subject, but it seemed interesting to me to work it out.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic682x.u30	In order to buy some time, I will turn my question No 16807 into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic682x.u31	Minister, at the question-and-answer session of the Infrastructure Committee on 17 May 2017, I asked you the same question, and you said you didn't have the time to get the figures I was asking you about this question. You had indicated that in four days you had been unable to obtain these elements. In the end, I will still point out that four days is the number of days you are planning to try to implement a guaranteed service. I understand that getting numbers is complicated. I rest my question again. The social agreement with the unions provided for a minimum number of staff at Infrabel and SNCB. However, this memorandum of understanding on staff would not be respected. For fiscal year 2016 alone, the average number of full-time equivalents is down by 1,458 positions, or 4.8% of railway personnel. This number of good jobs lost in 2016 corresponds to the number of jobs lost following the closure of Caterpillar Gosselies, if you will allow me to make this parallel. Unfortunately, it seems that the CGSP Chemots estimates, namely the loss of 6,000 jobs by 2020, seem to be confirmed. Mr Minister, I would therefore like to ask you again about this point. Can you confirm this information? Are you not afraid of a shortage of staff for the concrete operation of the Belgian railways?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic682x.u32	Dear colleague, on the basis of the elements contained in the Memorandum of Social Agreement, the Belgian railway workforce, as of 31 December 2018, is estimated at 31,765. By company, this gives the following breakdown: for Infrabel, 11,009 persons; for SNCB, 19,128 persons; for HR, 728 persons; number of persons seconded, more or less 900. These figures depend on several factors influencing employment, such as the conclusion of business plans and management contracts. These factors were not yet known at the time of the conclusion of the protocol to the social agreement. HR informs us that the number of employees for the entire railway group was 33,697 for 2016, and 31,832 for 2017. The details of the figures are given in the annex you will receive and you will find that for the time being, companies remain within the framework of the social agreement protocol. However, it is difficult to comment on the evolution of the workforce for the next few years, as companies are now facing massive retirements, which are larger than estimated. However, companies are making every effort to overcome these massive departures through large recruitment campaigns in collaboration with HR-Rail. HR organises actions to attract as many candidates as possible to the rail trades. As such, she organizes dozens of Job Days and participates in dozens of job fairs. It organizes a lot of school visits and brings a large number of students to visit the workshops of SNCB and Infrabel, sets up competitions, is present in social media (Facebook and LinkedIn), in classical media as well as on television and in cinemas. She launches actions such as Refer a Friend. In early 2016, in collaboration with SNCB and Infrabel's communications services, she launched a brand new campaign "Hard your dream, today your job". It is updating its website dedicated to recruitment (pathsdefer engages.be). She has developed a simulator of technical trains and trains used during job events, available on the website as an android application and IOS. She participates in various training projects with VDAB and FOREM. It has organised various summer activities in railway stations to raise public awareness of railway trades, develop actions in favour of diversity. It has launched the filming of some trains in favour of its website and its recruitment. It will organise in early 2017 "A Train for Employment". For information purposes, Infrabel recruited 467 people in 2016 and 300 from January to June 2017 alone. This strong increase is due to the great success of the organised jobs days. In addition, for SNCB, it is planned to hire 472 drivers and 312 train attendants before the end of this year in order to compensate for the departures to the pension referred to above and thus ensure the proper implementation of the transport plan of December 2017. It should also be noted that the SNCB group will be the fourth largest recruiter in Belgium during 2017.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic682x.u33	Thank you, minister, but your answer gives me the feeling that there is a problem in terms of forecasting. We find ourselves in a situation where there are significant departures, and we respond very late to the problem. This is probably also because of a political will not to replace all the people who are leaving. For example, you indicate that SNCB plans to recruit 472 drivers and 312 attendants for 2017. However, between 2016 and 2017, almost 2,000 people left SNCB, while 784 people are expected to be recruited. So we can see that the gap is still large. I hear that action is being taken to try to recruit staff. But I think that the issue of working conditions, and all the discussions that are on the table today, particularly those concerning guaranteed service, may cause difficulties in this context. All the discussions that take place on the issue of pensions have brought these hasty departures to retirement. They could and should have been anticipated as well. It is a little too easy to present things as unpredictable events that you are looking for as well as hard to adapt to. Political decisions have been taken at some point, and continue to be taken, sometimes in favour of purely ideological principles. These decisions have consequences on these personnel issues, which could and should have been anticipated, I repeat. I hope that you realize this, and that you will look at this issue not only on the basis of figures, but in a more global way, in order to provide an equally comprehensive answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic682x.u34	Mr Minister, the question of the organisation of social elections is a point which plays a role in this global context of sometimes morosity which may be that of our railways and that of the working conditions of railway workers today. We have already had a debate on this issue in the Committee on Infrastructure on 17 May. Mr Minister, you said in this committee about the organisation of social elections at SNCB: "I have met with the trade union organisations this morning and things have progressed well in this area". It subsequently came back to me that, during this meeting with the trade union organisations, you had informed the organisations representing the workers of your wish to organise these elections by electronic means. One might wonder what the positive developments were in the context of this meeting. In the meantime, in a ruling delivered on 18 May 2017, the Constitutional Court suspended section 12 of your law of 3 August 2016 on various provisions in railway matters. As you may recall, when we discussed this legislation, I was already denouncing, on behalf of the PS, the impracticability of the bill, particularly given the criteria used to favour a particular union and the time frame for organizing these elections. Mr Minister, can you explain to us how things had actually changed "well" during your meeting with the trade unions on 17 May with regard to the organisation of social elections? How do you intend to cover the costs of organising these elections? Do you confirm your willingness to opt for an electronic or postal vote? How do you intend to allow candidates in these elections to run on the various workstations to enable them to "camp"? What follow-up do you intend to give to the ruling of the Constitutional Court that took place on May 18, 2017? Minister, are you still considering the organisation of these social elections in 2018?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic682x.u35	Minister, my question is more specifically about the Constitutional Court's ruling on the law, while Mrs Grovonius spoke about the law as a whole. The Constitutional Court suspended Article 12 of the Law of 3 August 2016. That law regulates the social elections. Article 12 provided that only trade unions belonging to the National Labour Council may participate in the social elections. That actually means that only ACOD Spoor, ACV Transcom and VSOA Spoor were allowed to submit lists. When discussing the draft law in this committee, I already made this remark because the independent railway union OVS contested the exclusion. They then went to the Constitutional Court and now they are right. The Constitutional Court only suspends Article 12, Ms Grovonius. It's not the law that was suspended. The Constitutional Court considers Article 12 to be a discrimination against members of trade unions, such as the OVS, which are not among the three trade unions that sit in the NAR. Minister, what are the consequences of the ruling of the Constitutional Court? Are you going to take legislative action in response to this ruling? If so, which one? I believe that this statement means that the smaller railway associations, OVS and ASTB, can also participate in the social elections. Will they therefore be allowed to re-apply a strike notice which is valid? What impact does this ruling have on your efforts to reduce the wild strikes, by these smaller railway unions in particular? Following this ruling, how are you going to follow up the government agreement which clearly stated that the protocol agreement would be legally anchored against wild strikes?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic682x.u36	Colleagues, during the presentation of the bill in the Infrastructure Committee, some have expressed concerns about the possibility of implementing social elections within the railways in 2018 and even proposed postponing 2020. On 3 May 2017, the National Joint Commission unanimously approved the changes in the trade union status necessary for this implementation. It is in this context that I consider that things have progressed well. Moreover, the decision of the Constitutional Court does not in any way call into question social elections in railway companies, but only concerns the list of trade unions which may participate in them. As regards the preparation of the social elections, I would like to point out that: HR Rail has organized since the publication on 3 August 2016 of the Law on Various Provisions on Mobility, Task Force meetings on social elections. During these meetings, the election procedure, the preceding negotiations and the number of mandates are discussed in consultation with the trade union elections. The Task Force meetings indicate that the Minister is not involved in any way, and have led to adjustments to the Staff Regulations and to the RGP 548, which regulates union relations. In the coming months, the task force meeting will be organized to set up the practical modalities of the social elections. Thus, the method of voting and the modalities of the campaign still need to be the subject of negotiations between trade unions and rail managers. And I repeat, the minister is absolutely not involved in the process. According to HR Rail, electronic voting or by mail will be less expensive to implement than paper voting. I'll submit to the choice they make. I do not have to intervene in this negotiation. I am not intervening in this negotiation. Point. I challenge anyone to find the least word I've ever spoken about in this negotiation! As regards the ruling of the Constitutional Court of 18 May 2017, the judgment of the Constitutional Court suspends part of Article 12 of the Law of 3 August 2016 in so far as it seeks to insert an Article 114/1, 3 and 4 into the Law of 23 July 1926. That suspension judgment shall not be subject to appeal. The Constitutional Court must also rule on the application for the annulment of that same Article 12. My services are currently preparing a reply note. Pending that judgment, the suspension of the contested provision means that, in the context of the preparation of the procedure preceding the social elections, the recognised trade unions must not be deprived of the right to submit lists of candidates. The organisation of social elections in 2018 remains an objective.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic682x.u37	Minister, during the debate in the House on the bill, in committee or in plenary, we highlighted its instability and legal impracticability, as well as, as you pointed out, the difficulty of implementing these social elections within the time frame that you have wished to set within the framework of this law. I hear today that despite the judgment which has taken place and which suspends Article 12, there is no intention of changing the timetable for the organisation of these social elections. I believe that this is a wrong decision and that it would be necessary to take the time to find an adequate response to what has been raised by the Court and to organise these elections under the best possible conditions in order to avoid further appeals. I have noted that, in parallel with these legislative debates, a task force continues to meet in order to reflect on the organisation and practical modalities of these social elections. Given that we still do not know who will participate in these elections and that there is still no bill that can be used as a basis for work, is it relevant for the Task Force to continue to meet and discuss the practical arrangements for holding elections on the basis of a text that is now out of date? How can we continue to move forward in this context when tomorrow, the way and practical modalities of these elections may be fundamentally reviewed? On the other hand, you are telling us, with regard to electronic voting, that this issue is settled within the framework of the task force and that you have not intervened. However, we know that this is a topic that you have addressed with the unions in a very clear logic defended by HR Rail because this type of vote or postal voting would be more economical. We therefore once again follow a purely budgetary logic since – here is your responsibility, Mr.Minister – you do not want to commit an additional budget so that these social elections take place in the best possible conditions. Everyone is trying, within this task force, to find answers to organize, despite everything, pseudo-elections, a masquerade of social elections without any budget, with a minimum of means.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic682x.u38	Mrs Grovonius, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic682x.u39	I'm finishing, Mr. President. Will candidates have the opportunity to campaign? An answer to this question has not yet been received. It is not even certain that within the budgetary framework you define this will be possible. In short, Minister, the wisest thing would be to take the time to think properly about these social elections. I hear you won't, which I regret. But we will come back to this issue in the future. In fact, other remedies may be involved.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic682x.u40	Mr President, Minister, I note that the elections will continue. That's good, too. I repeat to Mr Grovonius that the law has not been suspended or destroyed. It's an article in the law that's been destroyed. The social elections are continuing. You seem to find it regrettable that the law has not been completely deleted. I wonder why the Socialist Railway Union did not go to the Constitutional Court. The independent union did that because he's out of the question. I am really starting to think that it is true that the socialist political parties no longer like to be seen in the socialist trade union. In addition, the latter in the task force agreed to the modalities. You are now asking who will or will not participate. However, the Minister replied. Thanks to the ruling of the Constitutional Court, everyone can participate. All recognized trade unions may submit lists. That's a good thing. This must be seen as a form of equal opportunity. It is staggering that there is now so much criticism as a result of this judgment that it allows a recognised trade union to participate, whereas that was not the case in the past. I wish you every success in these social elections. As far as the wild strikes are concerned, you did not reply directly, Minister, but I assume that you will take the necessary action in accordance with the government agreement.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic682x.u41	Debates of the European Parliament 18638 is wrongly under my name but is a question from Mr Vercamer. He's asking to convert them into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic682x.u42	Mr President, Minister, my question was tabled some time ago. It relates to the question of what practical problems would arise in setting up this guaranteed service. Has this been discussed in the Council of Ministers or with the trade unions? In the circumstances, allow me to clarify the practical problems involved. Depending on your pattern, is a driver or traffic manager allowed to work on any line or only the usual lines? How can a railwayman know 72 hours in advance whether he is going to strike or not, knowing that social negotiations are continuing? Will the rest rules be respected (maximum number of working days, time between two services)? What are the risks of aggressiveness on the part of travellers who would be denied access to their train? What are the risks of aggression between travellers? What are the risks of aggression between travellers and staff?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic682x.u43	Mr Van Hees, I assume you have asked the four questions of your group.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic682x.u44	Yes, Mr. President. A question addressed to the Prime Minister was referred to the Minister of Mobility.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic682x.u45	Mr President, Minister, on 17 May 2017, you indicated in your answer to my question on the guaranteed service that – I quote – "4 working days before the strike, each employee communicates whether he intends to work or not: the principle already exists". But, contrary to what you indicated, this principle does not currently exist. Minister, do you confirm that all employees will have to declare themselves or will a list of essential operational ranks be established? If so, what is the status of this list? Do you consider a worker's prior communication with his or her own union to be a prior communication to his or her employer? Can we compare an act of freedom of association and association with a legal obligation that restricts the freedom of the worker?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic682x.u46	Thank you, colleagues. The draft legislation approved by the Council of Ministers on 19 May 2017 provides for a form of guaranteed service. The draft which I submitted to the Council of Ministers follows the fact that the joint consultation which has been taking place for about two years already, at the level of the Belgian railways, had still not led to an adequate system. The ball was therefore on the side of the concertation, without political intervention. I have given the trade union organisations maximum opportunity to present a practical and effective proposal. Unfortunately, this was not possible, so that, in accordance with the government agreement, I was forced to draw up a proposal myself. No consultation as such is planned with the trade union organisations on this proposal, but it does not prevent the officials from being informed in advance, by me personally, of the initiative I intended to take and of the content of it. Only staff in the operational occupational categories will be asked to make an adequate and definitive statement no later than four days before the strike, which will allow the employer to clearly determine whether the staff will strike or, on the contrary, whether it will be available. The right to strike is a legitimate right that I respect. The specific terms and conditions under which this declaration of intent is to be communicated will, on the other hand, be determined by the HR Rail Board of Directors following the advice of the Steering Committee. It is precisely because the conditions for communicating this statement of intent are likely to be sensitive to the staff members concerned that I have found it appropriate to seek the opinion of the Steering Committee, where representative and approved trade union organisations are represented. The exercise of the right to strike by the staff members concerned is not subject to any prior authorization in the text of the draft. The right to strike of all workers is safeguarded. As you know, the proposal is based on the willingness of staff members to provide the required benefits. There has never been any question of any form of requisition.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic682x.u47	Minister, thank you for your answer. I think I've already heard four or five times your introduction to the ball that would be in the union camp, either in the House or in the media. I asked a series of concrete questions. Have I understood that all the questions I have asked you will be resolved by this steering committee that you have mentioned? For example, can a driver ride on any line if he or she decides to work?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic682x.u48	Mr Van Hees, no one will derogate from the general safety regulations. A driver who is approved for one line may not drive on another line unless he is an instructor trained on several lines. We will not derogate from the rules.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic682x.u49	All right! That's right! Does this also apply to the rest rules and the time between two services?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic682x.u50	We will have every opportunity to discuss the bill when it arrives here. You're telling me this is the fourth time I've answered you the same way. For sure, since this is the fourth time you've asked me. I'm constant. I try to be constant in my answers. I observe that you are constant in the questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic682x.u51	On the fact that a railway operator has to decide 72 hours in advance: will sanctions be possible if he changes his mind? This is a problem for many people who, 72 hours in advance, do not know whether they are going to strike or not, as negotiations continue. A railwayman who says, "I don't strike," then who, given the evolution of the negotiations, says, after the deadline, 24 hours before the strike: "I strike anyway", will he be punished?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic682x.u52	You will see the bill as drafted. It is currently being submitted to the Council of State, not as a matter of urgency, because I find it inappropriate to deal urgently with such a text. The Council of State shall examine the text. He's 30 days old. On 20 or 21 June, we will have the opinion of the Council of State. It is on this basis that we will have the opportunity to discuss it here. You'll have plenty of time to discuss it.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic682x.u53	I conclude that it is perhaps a sensitive point that is submitted to the Council of State.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic682x.u54	No. Many points are sensitive to your eyes. But for me, it's not sensitive at all.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic682x.u55	I ask you this question and you answer that it is at the Council of State. But I'm finishing it, because I'm over time.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic682x.u56	Minister, thank you for your answers. I may have escaped this, but I do not think I have heard a response to the list of essential operational ranks. I still don't understand when and by whom it will be established. You also did not answer a question of principle. Does a worker's prior communication with his union amount to prior communication with his employer? That's an important point.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic682x.u57	This is a procedure that is defined within the chain, with the steering committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic682x.u58	All right! On a political level, you'd better pay attention to it!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic682x.u59	I'll be careful!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic682x.u60	Minister, on the occasion of the launch of the "Smart Drivers" platform, the Belgian Institute for Road Safety (IBSR) conducted, in collaboration with Radio Contact and MNM, a survey of 400 young people concerning their experiences and fears of driving learning. It appears that more than four out of ten young people feel that the most difficult thing to do when driving is to park properly. One boy in fifteen estimates that it is enough to drive a thousand kilometers to have enough experience. Based on these findings, the IBSR, in collaboration with Baloise, Q8, Recytyre and Volvo Cars, is launching an online platform and a free app that will guide young people and their parents step by step in their search for a driver's licence and accompany them after obtaining it. I would therefore like to ask you the following questions. What is your vision of the Smart Drivers platform? Are other initiatives on the agenda? Is an online platform and application evaluation report planned? If so, according to which calendar? If you support this initiative, I would like to know what resources are allocated for its implementation?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic682x.u61	Mr. Minister, road safety remains a priority in your mobility policy. The IBSR recently set up a project called Smart Drivers, which consists of an online platform and an application to help young drivers increase their driving skills and knowledge. Of course, I welcome this initiative of the IBSR, which strengthens learning by using digital tools. In fact, young drivers are too often involved in road accidents (21% in 2016). So, Minister, my questions will be as follows. Are you able to provide us with statistics on serious accidents involving young drivers in 2015 and 2016? Have you been aware of this initiative of the IBSR? What is your first analysis of this project? In addition, could other mobility FPS initiatives be expected in this sector? Finally, what are the current preventive measures, possibly in consultation with the Regions, to make young people aware of the risks of driving? What other initiatives could be considered?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic682x.u62	Colleagues, according to the IBSR, Smart Drivers is a useful tool to support young people in their quest for a driver's license. Guides also receive helpful advice and valuable help to help them be good coaches. The organisation of driving licence examinations and driving training have been the responsibility of the Regions since 1 July 2014 following the sixth reform of the State. Therefore, with strict respect for the powers of each entity and for the autonomy of the Regions, the Federal State has allocated no means to this problem. I therefore do not wish to comment on initiatives. Mobility may be a little blurred sharing since the sixth reform of the state, but you will understand that I prefer not to pronounce myself. I think there are good initiatives that are being taken. And whenever it contributes to good training and road safety, I can only encourage them, but it does not fall within my competence. I can only comment on the encouragements to go in that direction.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic682x.u63	I just want to thank the minister. It's clear to me. We are here in regional competence and it is of course up to the regional parliaments and governments to provide answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic682x.u64	I thank the minister for his response.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic682x.u65	Minister, from April 21 to May 5, a number of services in the welfare and welfare sector opened their doors to professionals in the sector so that they could better know what is being done on the ground. Thus, I was able to discover through a press article on the subject that SNCB's mediation service was competent in the field of social assistance, and more specifically to help certain people wandering through railway stations. We learn that it is a relatively new service whose mission is to create a link, to direct a public, who is accustomed to wandering into stations, towards structures located outside. Minister, is the mediation service actually on the ground at different stations across the country? Could you tell me if such a service exists at the station of Tournai?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic682x.u66	My colleague, on a question of terminology, I would like to point out to you that it is not the mediation service, but the Corporate Security Service that deals with these matters. The presence of people wandering at railway stations as a social problem is the subject of a targeted approach by SNCB. The Commission is in favour of a proactive social policy aimed at channelling the phenomenon and improving the public's grip on existing aid schemes through a humane and tolerant approach. For some problematic stations, an action plan is put in place and is monitored on the progress of these measures, which include regular passages from our social correspondent, who is a social assistant, intensive cooperation with the police and social organizations, regular consultations with our partners, the arrest of the municipal authorities and the public prosecutor's office, CPAS, the establishment of a dialogue with the precarious regulars of the station, the training of security officers, etc. SNCB confirms to me that a SNCB employee is based in Tournai and holds the role of contact person in this field for the whole of Wallonia. SNCB tells me that this person is well known by the local social services and is familiar with the situation in Tournai. Following the 2009 European project Hope in Stations, SNCB and more specifically the Corporate Security Service's Full Security Unit appointed three field experts: one for Flanders, one for Brussels and one for Wallonia. These field experts are not part of the mediation service. The field expert for Wallonia goes to all stations where the presence of wandering people is reported. Tournai is one of them. The problem of errant persons is systematically addressed in consultations with the local social partners, in the context of meetings of the "great cold" plan set up in the various institutions. The phenomenon is also mentioned at the meetings of the steering committee, co-operation within the framework of the agreement concluded between SNCB and the police.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic682x.u67	Minister, you are telling me that a person is based on Tournai and is well known to the various departments. I will inquire and bring the information back to the municipal administration, but I do not have the impression that there is much going on or, in any case, not by the real vectors. I can guarantee you what is happening in Tournai; I can guarantee you what is happening in Tournai station but I have the feeling that we do not know the same truth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic682x.u68	Question No 18732 by Mrs Cassart-Mailleux is postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic682x.u69	Minister, the growth in the sale of electric bicycles is not without danger. I've already had an opportunity to ask you about this. While nearly two out of five bikes sold in 2016 are electric, they are also one of the causes of many road accidents. The Belgian Institute for Road Safety (IBSR) thus indicates an increase in collisions of 43% between 2015 and 2016, bringing the number of accidents from 510 to 730. Despite the "ten golden rules" presented by the IBSR, it should be noted that preventive and awareness-raising measures relating to this new type of electric vehicle appear to be still limited. In addition, this is compounded by the fact that the vast majority of the victims of these accidents consist of a population of seniors over 65 years of age. Minister, are you able to tell us the number of road accidents in which electric bicycles were involved in the first months of 2017? What preventive measures are currently being implemented, possibly in consultation with the Regions, to raise awareness and inform electric bicycle drivers about the risk of a road accident? Are new awareness-raising measures possible, particularly to target the elderly population? Finally, what initiatives are you considering to stem this phenomenon? More broadly, will a general strategy be developed in the near future to better guide the use of this innovative type of transport? Thank you, Minister, for all the answers you can give us on this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic682x.u70	My colleague, the figures for the number of road accidents where electric bicycles are involved for the year 2017 are not yet available. However, if the number of electric bicycles increases, it would not be surprising that the number of road accidents with this type of bicycle is also and probably proportionally increasing. Road safety prevention and awareness is the responsibility of the Regions, following the Sixth State Reform. Of course, if the analysis of the causes of accidents reveals the need for prevention measures specific to this category, I will be willing to participate. Recently, my administration clarified the rules for electric bicycles. This is the Royal Decree of 21 July 2016. This regulation aims to promote the use of electric bicycles, which represent an undeniable solution to the problems of mobility and public health, while not sacrificing road safety. In particular, it is foreseen that the wearing of the helmet is mandatory for speed pedalecs drivers. Additional initiatives aimed at regulating the use of electric bicycles by seniors can only be undertaken on the basis of a prior and detailed analysis of the statistics on accidents involving these cyclists, which is not yet available. We do not yet have enough hindsight to draw conclusions and conclusions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic682x.u71	Thank you, Minister, for your various answers. It is true that while this new means of transport, this alternative of mobility, is becoming increasingly successful, the number of accidents will also follow this upward trend. The various measures which have been taken in particular by your provisions last July concerning safety measures, the wearing of helmets etc., can help to achieve this objective. It will also be necessary to see, in use and after analysis, whether these safety measures need not be further strengthened, possibly by targeting them to a type of population more likely to use this means of transport and perhaps more fragile and sensitive in the event of a road accident with this type of vehicle. But I take note of your openness to this. We will come back to the subject once the situation has changed and we have a little more precise figures.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic682x.u72	Mr President, Minister, train P 8444 Bruxelles-Ans-Liège-Bressoux-Visé will no longer operate at its usual time from 11 December. Its departure will be postponed by 87 minutes (departure from Brussels-Midi at 17:48 instead of 16:21 at present). According to Shuttles.be, this decision follows a rule of allocation of "trains" which gives priority to international high-speed trains and in this case to an ICE of Deutsche Bahn which would use the running time of our current train. As a result, approximately 850 commuters will have to travel on trains P 8445 and IC 415 (without stops at Ans and with correspondence to Liège for Bressoux and Visé), with consequences, 30 minutes per day lost for passengers to Ans; 15 minutes per day lost for passengers to Bressoux/Visé; and the high risk of having to travel standing on the other two trains. Shuttles.be has therefore just launched a petition in order to order you to find a solution to maintain the current timetable of train P 8444 as part of the 2017-2020 Transport Plan in force from December 10th. This maintenance of the current schedule would, in particular, ensure that commuters to Ans, Bressoux and Visé arrive at their destination at an hour allowing an acceptable reconciliation of work and family life. It would respect the working range of commuters subject to the 38-hour/week regime, not overload the occupancy of other trains such as P 8445 and IC 415, already filled, and therefore not affect the conditions of carriage of their users. Minister, do you confirm that this trail has been attributed to an ECI? What were the reasons for assigning this trail to an ECI and not to train P 8444 which carries 850 commuters? Have you responded to Shuttles.be's requests? If so, what was your answer? In view of the above-mentioned important issues for commuters, is maintenance of the current schedule being studied? If not, why? Finally, will trains P 8445 and IC 415 have the ability to transport 850 additional commuters in optimal comfort and safety conditions? I'm paying attention to your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic682x.u73	Minister, in the new Transport Plan, Infrabel intends to grant a new track to the ICE 2015 train of the Deutsche Bahn which will depart from Brussels-Midi at 4.25 p.m. against 4.16 p.m. at present. To grant this trail to the Deutsche Bahn would oblige the SNCB to abolish P 8444 linking Brussels to Ans, Liège, Bressoux and Visé, which would be replaced by a P 8446 leaving Brussels-Midi at 18:48, while P 8444 currently leaves Brussels at 16:21. Of course, this situation will cause enormous inconvenience with both a professional and a family impact for those who used P 8444 at 4:21 p.m. For example, passengers to Ans will arrive 30 minutes later than currently if they take the next train (P 8445) and passengers to Bressoux and Visé will see their journey time increase by more or less 10 minutes if they take IC 415 and a connection to Liège-Guillemins via L 5366. If they take P 8445, they will also arrive thirty minutes later than usual. What about adding a whole series of passengers to running trains? The issue of overoccupation of trains IC 415 and P 8445 therefore arises quite naturally since, potentially, it is about 850 passengers who will be added to trains whose occupancy is already close to saturation. You indicated yourself, in a letter I was able to read about IC 415, that a solution should be found to increase the number of places available. I imagine that if we have to find a solution, it is that the train is already saturated at the present time. Minister, can you confirm this information? If so, have you started thinking about this? Can you share it with us? Has a formal request been made by Deutsche Bahn? Have counts been made on the train lines that will see a series of additional passengers arriving? What is the number of these counts? When did they take place? How many people are affected by the removal of train P 8444? We were told that a petition was circulating. Did you receive it? How many signatories are there? Why not have "just" added train P 8446, without necessarily deleting train P 8444? Why not add one additional stop to IC 416 in Years rather than delete this train P 8444?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic682x.u74	Colleagues, the SNCB informs me that, as requested in 2016 by Deutsche Bahn, the ICE 215 which is currently leaving Brussels-Midi at 16h16 will be caded at time 22 as of 2017 and this, like all ICEs circulating between Brussels and Germany via the LGV2. It should also be recalled that the train path allocation rule, in accordance with the Infrabel network reference document, gives priority to high-speed trains on the LGV. As a result, the track used by train P 8444 leaving Brussels-Midi at 16:21 will lapse. SNCB confirms to me that a meeting between its services and Shuttles.be was held on 26 April 2017 on this subject. On this occasion, alternatives to P 8444 were explained. Here's the explanation. Travellers to Liège are invited to take IC 415 in Brussels-Midi at 4:27 p.m. instead of 4:22 p.m. They will be in Liège-Guillemins at 5:28 p.m. with a time of journey similar to that of P 8444. Travellers for Bressoux and Visé are invited to take the IC 415 Bruxelles-Midi at 4:27 p.m., arriving in Liège-Guillemins at 5:28 p.m. and to make a 12-minute correspondence on the L 5366 Liège-Guillemins-Visé with however an extension of the journey time of ten minutes. Travellers for Ans have two possibilities. They are invited to take the P 8445, which leaves at 4:48 p.m. in Brussels-Midi, with 250 to 300 seats available today. The journey time will remain virtually the same. There is therefore no question of a waste of thirty minutes, but of a delay. The other option is train P 8400 running via Waremme, which leaves at 4:03 p.m. from Brussels-Midi. The journey time is a little longer, but the time of arrival is maintained at 5:22 p.m. Furthermore, in order to respond to complaints from users who are unable to leave their place of work before 5 p.m., and requesting the return of a train leaving Brussels-Midi at around 5.30 p.m., the SNCB will create a train P 8446 which will leave Brussels-Midi at 5:48 p.m., thus providing an additional possibility of rapid return to Ans. SNCB states that maintaining the current schedule is not possible. Furthermore, the demand for better spacing between the two P Brussels-Visé trains is part of the demand for passengers and the commune of Ans, which was analysed by SNCB as part of the design of the new transport plan. According to SNCB, the number of 850 affected travellers is inaccurate. Indeed, P 8444 is now occupied on average by 500 to 650 travellers. Of these, about 200 go down to Ans and do not take IC 415 but P 8400 or 8445. Train P 8445 still has an average of 250 to 300 seats available on board. With regard to the occupation of IC 415, SNCB is making every effort to have sufficient seats on this train. Finally, as often, I would not be surprised if the petition was signed by a larger number of people than those actually affected by the decision. In any event, SNCB sought to hear these people. That is why I have described the various alternatives proposed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic682x.u75	Minister, I take note of your answer and I will make a comment. It seems to me that there have been discussions with the municipal authorities of Ans or with the people who are moving on this route, but further to Visé, I do not know whether there has been any collaboration or information. As you say in your answer, the travel time is extended. We played one commune against another or one place of service against another in the context of this file. When you say that the SNCB will ensure that there are sufficient seats available in IC 415, do I have to understand that cars will be added so that they have sufficient seating for residents? I would like to have these two additional informations.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic682x.u76	It is in this sense that the SNCB intends to implement things.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic682x.u77	And what about the consultation with Visé?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic682x.u78	I think the officials met with the people on the spot. I don't have the details of the meeting. Indeed, for this train, there is a longer journey time of more than ten minutes.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic682x.u79	Of which act, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic682x.u80	But you have to choose. The network on the international LGV has priority over all others. That is the European rule. So, the ICE is changing its schedule. There's nothing else we can do. If tomorrow we were to add ICE trains to the line, it could impact other conventional trains. I recently met about ten mayors in Waremme with a series of people on the spot. Many trains have been added. It happens from time to time that a train is impacted. This necessarily translates into adaptations in the new transport plan. However, changes are made regularly because the supply of transport is something that is alive.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic682x.u81	Minister, thank you for your answers. If everyone could have access to the official request made by the Deutsche Bahn to have this trail at the times we are talking about today, namely 4 p.m. - 10 p.m., the question would not arise. Indeed, everyone would know, including the Shuttle.be travel association, that this international traffic is a priority. The question arises as to whether the modifications made are in fact part of this framework, or whether they are primarily intended to respond to a request made by an MR de Ans echevin and by some commuters in that commune who wished to have a train after 5 p.m. If you put on the table this official request of the Deutsche Bahn, everyone will know that priority is given to international traffic and the question will no longer arise. Today, some people wonder because they feel that some Ans users asked for a train after 5:00 p.m. You have, moreover, raised this aspect in your answer. It would be interesting to know how many Ans users were affected by this request. Why should a train be put on after 5pm for these users, knowing that there are trains today which run after 5pm and which can be used by these Ans users? Via ICS 416 and L 5189, these users can arrive today at 6:40 p.m. in Ans. With the new transport plan and train P 8446, these passengers will arrive at 6:44 p.m. in Ans. If the reason for this change is to save four minutes to an indefinite number of rail users who make Brussels-Midi-Ans after 5:00 p.m., objectively, I think that raises a question. It would be interesting to be able, if this is not the case, to put things in context and send this official request from Deutsche Bahn so that everyone can be comforted and reassured with regard to the reasons behind these changes.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic682x.u82	Mrs Grovonius, I can hear you. It should be noted that the new trains created were the result of applications requested by the roadshows. I explained how it worked. It is over when to please a person of a given party, a given train was created. Here there were 129 applications; 28 were dismissed ex officio. There was a ranking based on six criteria and the SNCB and Infrabel told me that they had derogated from nothing. You say it's an alderman this, an alderman that. It's not a train that makes Brussels-Ans. It is a train that makes Brussels-Liège-Guillemins. I'll see you in a year. The number of people on the train will be counted. You see politics in everything. I didn't intervene in anything. Nothing! For no train, in no demand. I have not been solicited anywhere by my party's elders or mayors. I must say that I have been asked by other mayors but I have given them the answer I have just given you. The transport offer must be objective and not come from requests. That time, Mrs Grovonius, it's over! The one where we asked for pleasures because we had the same political color as the minister, is from the past, but not from the present! I'll do whatever we want. For my part, the analyses were carried out objectively by SNCB. This train offer was offered by SNCB. Point. I have not intervened and will not intervene in requests to add or withdraw trains. That's not my role. What interests me is the quality of service to travellers. I see there's a train that's added at an hour when there was no one.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic682x.u83	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic682x.u84	Yes, but with alternatives.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic682x.u85	I can hear you, Minister. Don't come to say that a train is added! One train is removed, another is replaced by another at completely different times, which will have an impact on users. You tell me that to intervene and to respond to the request of an alderman of the same political colour, it is from the past, it is from old politics! I would like that to be the case, minister. I apologise, but I have here in front of you letters which were not sent to you but which were sent to Mrs Galant at the time, from an MR bishop from the municipality of Visé, dated 2 March 2015. If you think it's old politics, I have no difficulty with that. Then I really encourage you to change the way politics is done. I have no problem with that. But these are letters from an MR to Mrs. Galant relaying a series of requests from users of Ans.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic682x.u86	Do you want me to show you all the mail I've received? You'll be surprised!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic682x.u87	If, at any time, you have the official request of the Deutsche Bahn asking for a trail in order to be able to operate a train at 4:22 p.m., produce it. I'm at 22: produce it! then think that the debate will stop there and that you will put an end to what you may consider to be hallucinations or in any case interpretations that are not necessarily those that you consider to be the reality of the facts.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic682x.u88	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you that there are 50 oral questions on the agenda today. If we continue to dwell on certain questions, we will never be able to finish the agenda. It also shows little respect for my fellow Members. I would like to call for the deadlines that apply to the questions and replies to be respected. Thank you in advance.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic682x.u89	Mr Minister, questions about the feasibility of a station in Haasrode have been raised several times in this committee. A study was launched to be completed by the autumn. Research into a possible station in Haasrode should be considered within the overall mobility issue for East Brabant. From that perspective, a reopening of the stations of Kumtich and Lovenjoel is also considered. A strengthening of the Leuven-Landen rail link is also envisaged. I also heard that the Leuven station was included in SNCB's investment plan for the period up to 2020, which is not the case for the Haasrode station. My questions to you are therefore the following. What concrete anchor points are already on the table to address the mobility issue in East Brabant? How realistic is the reopening of the stations of Lovenjoel and Kumtich? What exactly is meant by a strengthening of the Leuven-Landen-Open railway link? I understand that a specific budget for Haasrode has not yet been allocated, as this has yet to be studied. What are the global budgets for the mobility issue in East Brabant? The Leuven railway station was incorporated into the 2020 Investment Plan. In what way? What investments will be made in the coming years at the Leuven station? Is there a roadmap for these investments yet? If so, what does it look like? Can you give an indication or estimate of the planning and resources?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic682x.u90	Ladies and gentlemen, SNCB informs me that she is also examining the question of mobility in the Leuven attraction area. In the context of the congestion problem around Brussels, particular attention will be paid to the rail supply between the eastern edge of Flemish Brabant and the capital. The rail supply between Leuven and Brussels is already very well developed, but the increasing congestion on the road to Leuven station puts pressure on the attractiveness of this station. SNCB is studying how to improve the attractiveness of the supply on line 36 between Leuven and Tienen. This study will be included in the Regionet Leuven Steering Committee under the chairmanship of the Governor of Flemish Brabant. SNCB and De Lijn are represented in this steering group. As regards your question about the Leuven station, two projects have already been implemented in the proposal for a multiannual investment plan for Leuven. It concerns the construction of new sanitary facilities for passengers in the vicinity of the signal house and the final finishing of platforms 1, 2, 3, 1a, 1b, 1c and 1d. SNCB also proposes to invest in the construction of an underground bicycle storage facility under Martelarenplein. These three projects together require a budget of €13.3 million in the period 2016-2020.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic682x.u91	Thank you, Minister, for your reply and also for the useful investments in the Leuven station. With regard to the study on Haasrode and the possible opening of the stations provided for in Lovenjoel and Kumtich, perhaps because the study is still in progress, I miss an answer. I don't know if you have any insight into the timing. Is your answer contained when this study is completed? If not, I will have to ask a new question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic682x.u92	The study also studies the alternatives to the Haasrode station for travellers in Leuven.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic682x.u93	Question No 1, by Mr De Pasquale (H-l 18848, 18972 and 19085 of myself are converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic682x.u94	Mr Minister, since April, the residents of the northern edge of Brussels have been carrying out more flight movements above their residence. More specifically in Grimbergen, Meise, Wemmel and the immediate surroundings, flight movements would be more frequent than before. The additional nuisance would be the result of a number of cases. For example, aircraft would come to the west at a sharper angle than in the past, resulting in more noise. The same phenomenon can be observed with aircraft heading north. These too now seem to change their course over Meise and immediate surroundings. So the neighbors are complaining about extra flight movements. In short, in the Noordrand there is more nuisance to observe flight movements on the CIV flight route and within the Noordrand there seems to be a concentration of aircraft on the DENUT and HELEN flight routes above Meise and immediate surroundings. Mr. Lester, are you aware of this concentration of flight movements over the North Edge? Do you see any connection with the fines imposed on airlines for violating Brussels noise standards and the concentration of flight movements? Do you know of experiments with other flight movements which make different flight routes more coincide? Can you reconcile these new observations with the recommendations of the World Health Organisation? What steps will you take to eliminate the additional nuisance for the inhabitants of the Noordrand?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic682x.u95	In recent months, no changes have been made either to standard flight procedures or to infrastructure or to the rules governing the distribution of flights. However, seasonal changes can be made with regard to the volume of traffic, since the routes are linked to the destination of the flights. It is also the case that during school holidays a global increase in traffic is observed compared to the periods outside. However, the number of flights above the Noordrand increased in the same proportion as the total number of flights. It is therefore not the case that there has been a shift of planes from one zone to another.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic682x.u96	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. I will pass this on to the numerous action groups that are rich in my province.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic682x.u97	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Raskin's 18847 was postponed. Debates of the European Parliament 18881 of myself is converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic682x.u98	The French-speaking Ombudsman recently published on his Twitter account the message that a recertification was made for DHL Boeing 757 aircraft, resulting in a 4.2 Quiet Comfort (QC). This would mean that these devices no longer use the Channel Route, but the Ring Route. Knock that message out? What is the existing procedure for recertification? At the request of whom did this recertification happen? Who should approve that: you or the FPS Mobility? How many aircraft are involved and which types? How many flights will use the Ring Route every week instead of the Channel Route?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic682x.u99	Dear colleague, the German authorities granted a new noise certificate in March 2017 to five Boeing 757, including two of EAT/DHL registered in Germany and equipped with Pratt & Whitney engines. The sound levels indicated on that certificate shall bring the QC to 4.2 for those special appliances. That's more than four. As a result, these devices must make compulsory use of the Ring Route, the so-called Charlie procedure towards the beacon of Chièvres. As part of the procedure towards the Chièvres beacon, the apparatuses follow the CIV Charlie procedure through the Ring at night if their QC exceeds 4, and the CIV Delta procedure through the Channel if their QC is less than 4. This is a result of a political decision of 24 January 2003. The certification of aircraft shall be carried out by the European Aviation Safety Agency (EASA) in accordance with the procedures of the International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO) Annex 16 Environmental Protection and Article 11 of the European Regulation No. 216/2008 establishing common rules in the field of civil aviation. Member States shall recognise the certificates issued in accordance with that Regulation without imposing further technical requirements or implementing a Regulation. Such certification shall be carried out at the request of the operator of the apparatus. Since these are aircraft not registered in the Belgian register, the FPS Mobility is not competent. In an e-mail of 28 April which was delivered directly to me, the director of the ombudsdienst states that between 1 and 25 April 37 aircraft followed the Charlie procedure at night. This amounts to an average of ten aircraft per week. These figures do not mean much, of course, because EAT/DHL has a diversified fleet of 757-200 Boeing aircraft and they are not systematically the same aircraft flying in Brussels. Depending on the aircraft used, flights will therefore take place on certain nights along the Channel Route and on other nights along the Ring Route. In addition, there is no quota for the distribution of night flights between the Channel Route and the Ring Route. Only the maximum number of night flights throughout the year is recorded, broken down into precise numbers of night departures and arrivals throughout the year. If an airline with aircraft with a quota count of more than 4 would adjust its fleet in favour of aircraft with a quota count of less than 4, there would be a shift of flights from the Ring Route to the Channel Route.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic682x.u100	Thank you, Minister, for your reply, which I will read in the light of the extensive technical information. A case isn't really clear to me. Why did the recertification take place at the request of the operator of the aircraft (...) DHL Germany? I fear that they have done so in order to avoid fines from the Brussels-Capital Region.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic682x.u101	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Gilkinet (S). - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic682x.u102	Minister, the railway police are particularly poorly housed in Namur station. Staff complain about working conditions. Initially, the premises it occupies were to be temporary, but the situation has lasted for fifteen years. In recent months, however, these premises have become virtually invivable. The result is an air-conditioning system that is poorly maintained or defective. The staff's feelings and the complaints relayed by the unions were confirmed on their merits by a very recent report on occupational medicine. Minister, are you aware of this situation? What measures will be taken to improve the working conditions of the railway police at Namur station?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic682x.u103	Mrs Grovonius, the Memorandum of Understanding between SNCB and the Federal Police requires SNCB to provide premises for the various railway police stations. SNCB owns these premises and supports the necessary facilities with the exception of specific SPC equipment such as secure doors and windows and cell installations. In the particular case of Namur, the air conditioning system is provided by a so-called cold beam system that no longer meets the expected performance. From a technical point of view, the regulation in the SPC premises of the entire eastern part of the slab, therefore also the counters of the SNCB, the public sanitary facilities and the whole office wing is ensured by means of hot/cold groups and pulses managed by the SNCB, either outside the SPC premises. The air is filtered at the intake level in the back-up road technical spaces and the maintenance of the filters is carried out regularly by the SNCB maintenance services. As a result, there is no cleaning of air filters to be performed locally. However, a number of problems have arisen: the absence of a probe in one of the premises due to the fact that they have been split in view of the increase in staff and sometimes too high temperature, a significant difference in temperature between premises, condensation of damp air on cold beams. A visit to SNCB's technical services on 23 May revealed some anomalies such as air blades sealed by sticky paper, the presence of an electric radiator in the vicinity of a probe or probe behind a cabinet, which of course disturbs the normal operation of the installation and the balance in the various premises. The technicians have made an inventory of regulatory problems. SNCB informs me that a new meeting is planned with the federal police services on June 8 to outline the actions taken and to be taken. Pending the planned relocation in April 2018 of the services concerned to new premises as part of the partial redevelopment of the station, SNCB assures me that it is making every effort to adapt the facilities within its jurisdiction in order to improve the working conditions of the staff present in the premises concerned, who were right to challenge the environment in which he worked. However, SNCB points out that it is up to the occupant to carry out, at his own expense and by his technical services, all the tasks of the tenant, in particular the dust removal and cleaning of the ventilation grids.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic682x.u104	Minister, thank you for your answers. Everyone has to assume his or her responsibilities. I will not fail to return to you after this meeting on 8 June if I hear that the situation remains problematic.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic682x.u105	Minister, SNCB is said to have launched an unprecedented public procurement to modernize its IT tools, with the help of its IT subsidiary Ypto. For its managers, this would be a "exceptional public procurement" worth between €190 million and €277 million over the next seven years. I would therefore like to ask you about this. Can you confirm this information? What are the actual planned spending and for what type of products? Can you give us some concrete examples? My last question is more of a question of political opportunity: in the context of budgetary rigour we know, how do you explain such a priority to digital technology when there are major difficulties, in particular in terms of financing staff and equipment, maintaining lines, or organising social elections? Thank you in advance.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic682x.u106	Dear colleague, SNCB informs me that it has indeed launched a market aimed at simplifying development and maintenance and operations, i.e. application operation and cloud hosting. This includes, for example, existing applications that need to be developed in the light of, inter alia, the ageing of IT infrastructures and data centres. SNCB is awaiting a solution by September 2018. This choice will depend on the procedure launched including also ticketing, everything that happens at the counters such as ticket distribution. SNCB is part of the necessary digital revolution and this is part of SNCB's corporate plan. This initiative is fully in line with the government's fiscal framework, as it must allow for the path to be respected. SNCB states that the objective of this market is to reduce current costs while ensuring more optimal management of existing and future applications. By comparison, SNCF intends to release €900 million over the next three years for the digital transformation of industrial processes. In view of the amounts of the SNCB over a period of seven years, there is no budgetary slippage here. There is therefore no additional budget to be allocated under this contract. It is a project to improve the performance of SNCB's IT services. SNCB states that digitization is essential today. It's a must have. The improvement of SNCB's business processes and customer experience will require greater digitalisation, but more professional and financially sustainable.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic682x.u107	I propose that we move on to the last question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic682x.u108	Excuse me, I have a meeting for the European Transport Council in Luxembourg at 7.30 p.m. We will be eight ministers to discuss the road transport alliance as part of the fight against social dumping and all forms of discrimination within Europe. I would not want to miss this meeting, especially since I am at the initiative of this alliance, as well as my French colleague. That's why I'll leave you around 17:00.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic682x.u109	Madam Chair, Ms.Lalieux cannot be present today, I will be pleased to communicate the Minister's response to me. Mr Minister, as you know, Brussels Airport consists of three runways, each of which can be used in both directions. Since winds are mainly blowing from the west/southwest sector, aircraft most often land on runways 25 Left and 25 Right. However, when the wind blows from the northeast, the aircraft land on runway south-north 01 or runway 07 Left when the wind level is such that runway 01 is no longer usable because the lateral wind is too high. In recent days, however, numerous landings have been observed on Runway 07 Right, for no apparent reason. Since Runway 07 Left was not jointly used to land, I assumed that this was not a capacity problem. According to the FlightRadar website, the dates concerned are: 22 March 2017, from 19.00 a.m. to midnight; 23 March 2017, from midnight to 5.30 a.m.; 25 March 2017, from 23.00 a.m. to midnight; 26 March 2017, from midnight to 5.15 a.m.; 29 April 2017, from 21.00 a.m. to midnight; 30 April 2017, from midnight to 6.30 a.m.; 26 May 2017, from 21.13 a.m. to 5.15 a.m., or in the middle of the night. However, as demonstrated by an expert study of the history of the overflight of the Brussels-Capital Region for Brussels-Environment carried out by the ULB IGEAT, the number of inhabitants impacted by the noise of landing aircraft, regardless of their region of residence, is as follows: for Runway 01, 54,986 inhabitants; for Runway 07 Left, 175,242 inhabitants; for Runway 07 Right, 337,936 inhabitants. It is therefore obvious that both tracks 07 should be used only as a last resort, on the basis of the principle of preferential use of the tracks. In addition, both in terms of health and public safety, landing on Runway 07 Right has an even greater environmental impact than when using Runway 07 Left. Minister, why were the aircraft invited to land on Runway 07 Right on the above dates rather than on Runway 07 Left or Runway 01?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic682x.u110	Colleagues, according to Belgocontrol, Runway 07R was used for landings from March 22 at 18.47 hours to March 23 at 01.28 hours, from March 25 at 23.00 hours to March 26 at 5.00 hours, from April 29 at 20.45 hours to April 30 at 06.30 hours and from May 26 at 20.58 hours to May 27 at 05.30 hours, due to weather conditions and/or the unavailability of other runways. Only a full audit would validate this information by flight. The operational choice of runways to be used by the pilot for landings is made by the air traffic controller, of course safety should be the priority criterion. Where conditions do not permit the use of preferential runways, the runway configuration best suited to weather and traffic conditions shall be put into service. By east wind and in case of unavailability of other runways, runways 07 are put into operation. In this case, Runway 07L is used for day landings, as Runway 07R does not have a taxiway to the runway threshold. Runway 07L can currently only be used in good visibility, i.e. between sunrise and sunset, due to the lack of appropriate equipment or procedure. Between sunset and sunrise, Runway 07R must be used, with a very limited capacity due to the absence of taxiway.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic682x.u111	Thank you to the minister for his answer. Indubitably, there is a substantial increase in the overflight of the north-west of Brussels on landing. The residents see it. That's why I'm asking you the question. Both runways, 07L and R, can only be used as a last resort, when other runways are not usable or wind standards are not suitable for the use of preferential runways. Without a trial of intent, the fear is, of course, that they will be used more and more in place of others. I know, because we have already discussed this last March, when the mayor of Wezembeek-Oppem sent you a letter inviting you to use these tracks more often, that we must check whether Belgocontrol is actually applying the wind standards – the audit is under way and we will discuss it in the coming weeks – but also avoid at all costs – we will pay close attention to it – that an amendment be communicated to the IPAs, that is, a modification of the roads that would allow – I know it is not your will – to make the use of the 07 L and R more common on the pretext that an appropriate procedure would have been chosen. We will remain very attentive. But I must admit that until now you have allowed the opposite. Indeed, there is currently no possibility published in the PIAs of intensive use of both tracks 07.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic682x.u112	Then we'll close the meeting. I wish the Minister a fruitful meeting in Luxembourg.
