ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic712x.u1	Mr.President, Mr.Minister, the Royal Decree of February 24, 2017 implementing section 43ter, §7 of the Acts on the use of languages in administrative matters, coordinated on July 18, 1966 (Royal Decree implementing so-called functional bilingualism), published on March 3, 2017, came into force on May 1, 2017. It comes to my mind that a well-determined Federal Public Service, by means of an internal memorandum of service, recommended to all the evaluators, therefore concerned by the linguistic examination "functional knowledge-evaluation" (Article 10bis of the said Royal Decree), also exercising a legal function, to pass not only the said examination but also the linguistic examination "functional knowledge-unit of jurisprudence" (Article 11bis of the said Royal Decree). A note from one of the directorates-general of the same SPF subsequently invited the chiefs of the law enforcement services – and not only the officer in charge of the management of the legal service – to also pass these two examinations, stressing that the examination "Article 11bis" should be presented before the examination "Article 10bis". However, Article 11ter of the Royal Decree concerned is very precise as to the agents who must submit the examination "functional knowledge - unit of jurisprudence". These are the Chairman of the Management Committee, the holder of a Level 1 management function, the Functional Director of the Personnel & Organisation Management Service, the staff member responsible for the management of the Legal Service – provided that he is an assessor – as well as the staff members who perform any function determined by royal decree deliberated in the Council of Ministers, after consulting the Chairman of the Management Committee. It is therefore a limited list, which is also subject to legal locks, concerning a specific category of agents. Thus, Article 11b is strictly interpreted. Moreover, nothing in the report to the King, or in the opinion of the Council of State, provides for only agents other than those mentioned above should satisfy this dual linguistic requirement. Consequently, the memos concerned are part of a manifestly incorrect interpretation of the applicable legislation. Minister, allow me to be concerned about these potential deviations from the Royal Order in question, which I have received from a good source, and which support me in the idea that the legal uncertainty with regard to the categories of agents subject to these examinations conceals plans to undermine the linguistic balance in the senior public service. Minister, have you been aware of these memos? Can you confirm whether, legally, an agent cannot be subject to a dual linguistic requirement (Articles 10a and 11a of the aforementioned Decree) if his function is not expressly covered by Article 11b of the said Royal Decree or by a possible future royal decree as covered by that provision? To your knowledge, is this initiative taken at the level of a branch of a particular CPS still isolated? Will a circular be issued promptly to the various FPSs and other federal departments concerned in order to respond to legitimate questions about the application of this royal decree, in order to ensure full legal certainty?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic712x.u2	Mrs Caprasse, it is difficult for me to answer because I do not know which FPS it is, nor what happened. As I have already said in this commission in response to a question from Ms.Barbara Pas, it is important to know that the language knowledge that the assessor must possess is primarily used to protect the assessed grievor. If the assessor does not have a good knowledge of the language of the person being assessed, the rights of the assessor are violated. The language requirements that assessors must meet have their reasons for protecting public servants. The evaluation process is characterized by various interviews on the basis of which staff performance and skills development are assessed. Without the above-mentioned language requirements, the official concerned cannot sufficiently assert his right to be heard and his right of defence during these interviews. This leads to an impediment in the development of his skills or career, or even to a negative and unfair assessment of the latter. It is clear that the entire evaluation procedure, including all interviews and documents, must be dealt with in the language of the assessed officer, in accordance with the language law in administrative matters. This position is confirmed by the Standing Committee on Linguistic Control. To answer your first question, I have not been informed of these memos. I don't know exactly what this is about. Second question, Article 11ter of the Royal Decree of 24 February 2017 explicitly incorporates the functions that ensure the unity of case law. For these functions, there are two language examinations to pass: first, the examination of "functional knowledge - unit of jurisprudence" and, after passing the latter, the examination of "functional knowledge - evaluation". The functions not mentioned in Article 11ter of this Order are not concerned, and the list is short. A circular is used to clarify the regulations in force. For me, the Royal Decree of 24 February 2016 and Article 43ter of the coordinated laws on the use of languages in administrative matters are sufficiently explicit. I don't think a circular is necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic712x.u3	Minister, thank you. As far as the internal note is concerned, I'll see if I can give you more information. This can be interesting. If I ask you all these questions, it's because the unusual way of applying these exams generates feelings of frustration and injustice. I don't know if your answer will satisfy the worried people. You say there will be no circular, I take note of it. I'll see if I have to come back with other questions to better clarify this problem. I am well aware that it is better to know both languages, but it is not essential for all positions. In the past, it wasn't like that. There is concern that this will lead to a linguistic imbalance. You know everyone's sensibilities very well.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic712x.u4	Again, Ms. Caprasse, I think the order is really explicit. It contains the exhaustive list of functions requiring the 11ter test: the Chairman, the Chairman of the Management Committee, the holder of a level 1 management function, the functional director of the Personnel & Organisation management service and, provided that he is an assessor, the officer in charge of the management of the Legal Service. That's very clear. I don't think it's necessary to issue a circular that says exactly the same thing.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic712x.u5	Thank you. I appreciate you coming.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic712x.u6	The meeting was closed with regard to the Minister of Civil Service.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic712x.u7	I reopen the meeting and welcome the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Security and Home Affairs to answer the oral questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic712x.u8	Minister, the use of non-lethal weapons such as the taser continues to raise questions within local police areas. At the moment, the pilot project that you have initiated, which I thank you again, seems still blocked for a reason of legal framework of use. Yet, according to many testimonies from our police officers, the use of this equipment would make it possible to adapt their missions to certain difficult arrests in difficult situations, but which do not automatically require the use of their firearms. I'm doing a parenthesis on the Brussels-West area. At the last police council, Chief of Staff Johan De Becker said that, in the past year, it was necessary to fire twice. It was fatal once. In both cases, the possibility of using a taser would have prevented the death of one man, serious injuries to another, and injured police officers. The fact that this has already happened twice in 12 months is for us an argument in favour of taser. Minister, is it confirmed that legislative changes are needed to allow for the legal and effective use of taser within the police areas involved in the pilot project? If so, can you tell me when this legal framework will come into force and allow our police officers to use the taser in intervention?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic712x.u9	Mr Pivin, I once again confirm that the project initiated is part of the particular weaponry. For this type of weapon, there is a legal and regulatory basis that will obviously be scrupulously followed. There is therefore no deficiency in this case. It is only in a later phase that the Royal Decree may have to be amended. In fact, if we ever consider integrating the electric impulse weapon, the taser, into the category "collective weapons", it will be necessary to legislate in this direction and to adapt the legal framework. Let's not burn the steps and step by step. The evaluation of the project will take place after six months and, on the basis of this in-depth evaluation, subsequent decisions will be taken. For the pilot project phase, we are limited to the particular weaponry, for which we have a legal framework. I therefore do not understand the comment well. Let him get in touch with my firm!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic712x.u10	Minister, thank you for your clarification. I think his concern is precisely who will be able to use it. At present, the pilot project foresees that specialized units will be able to use it, not the police officer. I also think they have to be three to use it. Precautions are therefore taken. I understood that there were obstacles or brakes. I hear that's not the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic712x.u11	Mr President, I have tabled two questions on radicalism, but I will ask only one question on this subject. As we know, the phenomenon of radicalisation and indoctrination targets all families and sometimes Belgians of very young age. We were again able to observe it recently with the case of the departure in Syria of a resident of a Brussels municipality. The federated entities have structured, for some time, after unfortunately publicized failures – I am thinking here of the issue specifically intended for schools – certain services dedicated to this subject of radicalism. This initiative of the federated entities is paramount in the face of this challenge. The Wallonia-Brussels Federation has, it seems, today mobile teams of prevention to religious radicalisation carrying out missions within the schools itself. On 2 July last, the management of the Wallonia-Brussels Federation in charge of radicalisation issues indicated that in six months, the Radicalism Green Number had received 237 telephone calls (126 from professionals, 111 from citizens). In addition, it appears that a recent report mentions almost 80 requests for intervention by schools in the Wallonia-Brussels Federation for acts of religious radicalisation in the context of the work of the Centre for Assistance and Care of Anyone Affected by Radicalism and Violent Extremism (CAPREV). Minister, what coordination and consultation have been put in place in the fight against radicalization and the R plan by these community services, including the Resource and Support Centre (RCS), in collaboration with federal departments? Can you confirm to me that 77 requests for intervention were registered for acts of radicalisation in 2015 and 2016 in French-speaking schools, that 237 calls were received and that they were aimed at a risk of radicalisation in the Wallonia-Brussels Federation? If so, how many of these facts have been reported to the specialized police services? How many such facts have been communicated to you by the Flemish Community and its specialized services to schools? Through which channels of communication are the information transmitted to the local preventive authorities and to the local police services of the entities in which the persons concerned reside?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic712x.u12	Mr President, Mr Pivin, as part of the update of the Radicalism Action Plan consisting of a first salve of twelve government measures against radicalism and terrorism already dated 16 January 2015, the Communities and the Regions have been included as a full member of the national task force. The updated plan was approved by the National Security Council on 14 December 2015. In addition, in order to provide an additional incentive for coordination between the federal authority and the Communities and the Regions, a specific platform for consultation on radicalism has been set up. The platform is part of the newly established security structure: the National Security Council, the Strategic Committee and the Intelligence and Security Coordination Committee. With regard to the number of interventions in Francophone schools, I am not in a position to provide you with an answer. This should be addressed to the Community or the Region concerned. The flow of information is an integral part of the Radicalism Action Plan. This means that in each district, a local task force has been created and includes one or more task force(s). The task force consists of representatives of the local and federal police, the State Security, the Military Intelligence Service and the King's Prosecutor. In order to establish a link with socio-preventive actors, by circular of 21 August 2015 on the follow-up of foreign terror fighters, the mayors were asked to set up a local integral security cell (CSIL). The local police zone chief or his replacement is responsible for establishing effective links between the local police task force and ISIL. In addition, schools have a choice as to how to disseminate information on radicalism. To this end, they may contact CSIL directly or use a single point of contact within the local police force. This is the Ministerial Circular PLP 41 of 7 July 2006 with a view to strengthening and adjusting the local security policy and the specific approach to juvenile crime with, in particular, a point of contact for schools.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic712x.u13	I don't have a reply, Mr. President. The answer is complete. I thank the minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic712x.u14	Mr Minister, the European Commission has decided on a regulation banning the marketing and sale of explosive precursor products. Our country complies with this regulation, which came into force in September 2014. However, access to these products remains problematic in some neighbouring countries and these products have been used in recent terrorist acts in the European Union. This question was tabled prior to the attempted attack at the Central Station. I would therefore like you to inform us whether these products could have been used on 20 June by the perpetrator of this attempted attack. Could you also tell me whether a specific service within the Federal Police is responsible for enforcing the ban, given the terrorist threats? On the customs side, are there joint customs-police teams dealing with this issue? Can you also tell me whether cases of trafficking and discovery of these products allowing to make an improvised explosive such as acetone peroxide have been registered since 2014 in Belgium? Was the author of the 20 June attempt in possession of such products? Have the searches carried out after the interception of the author made it possible to detect these products, of course in accordance with the current investigation?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic712x.u15	The law was passed on July 15, 2016, almost a year ago. European Regulation No 98/2013 of 15 January 2013 on the placing on the market and use of precursors for explosives has been applied immediately in Belgium since 2 September 2014. The implementation mission was entrusted to the SPF Economy at the end of 2015. This implementation concerns, inter alia, the determination of the competent services, the decision on sanctions, the framework for licensing and sanctions rules, the possibility of supplementing the law on certain matters, etc. The competent services in this field are not only customs and police, but also economic inspection and environmental inspection. The contact point "precursors for explosives" was provided for in the Royal Decree of 30 August 2016. This is the DJSOC/Terro service of the Federal Police. The latter can be reached 24 hours a day, 7 days a week by traders who want to report suspicious acts or who have questions about this matter. Between the entry into force of the legislation and today, the contact point received 13 suspicious statements and answered some 13 general questions from suppliers and traders. No statistics are available on the declarations made to the DJSOC/Terro service between 2014 and the entry into force of the legislation. It adds that no facts related to TATP products are, as of 31 May 2017, listed in the General National Data Bank, the BNG. It should be noted, however, that the concept of TATP was introduced as a possible choice only in February 2017 in the BNG tables. We are therefore talking about the period covered between February and today in the police database, the BNG.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic712x.u16	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic712x.u17	Mr President, we have discussed this all morning in the Attentats Committee. That was the chapter on technology, the media. So it's coming to a point. Mr Minister, we all know that the fight against radicalism and terrorism aimed at both foreign terrorists and homegrown terrorists involves the widest possible collaboration between states and decentralized public institutions, but also between state agencies and private companies and therefore large companies active on the Internet such as GAFAs. Indeed, the indoctrination of jihadism also involves Internet service providers (ISPs). Their responsibility is therefore very great in this matter. Should we recall that terrorist operations have been coordinated through such couriers? Last December, the Court of Justice of the European Union reduced the framework of possible state requirements to data retention, with the clear aim of making terrorist investigations and investigations more effective. Since the submission of my question, this subject has known several news, in the framework of European and international summits but also through various communications from large private companies, such as Facebook. It appears that one essential point remains that of taking initiatives by private companies, such as the principle of censorship a priori, that is, without waiting for the intelligence or police services to contact and solicit these companies. Another fundamental question still seems to arise in the eyes of a number of actors: the definition of what a terrorist message is. Mr Minister, what recent initiatives have been taken by the European Council of Ministers of the Interior on this subject? What conventions currently in force hold these societies accountable at European Union level and vis-à-vis the states, including Belgium, for these acts and acts of apologies for terrorism?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic712x.u18	Mr Pivin, at the request of Belgium, the Council of the European Union has ensured that the obligation to cooperate with these private companies is respected. However, non-cooperation can be difficult to punish because they are companies which often have no anchor in Belgium and do not have Belgian assets either. The Council of the European Union published its conclusions on improving criminal justice in cyberspace on 9 June 2016. This document is No. 10007/16. As we can read in the House's report No. 54 752/008 - of this session - I would first like to point out that this issue concerning the Data Retention Directive falls within the competence of my colleagues Didier Reynders and Koen Geens, respectively Ministers for Foreign Affairs and Justice. They will be able to better inform you about the relevant treaties and orders applicable in Belgium. However, I can quote from UN Security Council Resolution 2253 of 17 December 2015 which will facilitate cooperation with the private sector to strengthen the fight against the financing of terrorism. I would also remind you that the fight against terrorism and hate speech on the web has long been on the European agenda. The European Union Internet Forum, set up by the Commission in December 2015, aims to bring together on a voluntary basis Member State governments and large Internet companies in an official platform to step up cooperation against the misuse of the Internet for terrorist purposes. It is clear that Belgium participates with great enthusiasm. In this context, in collaboration with Facebook, Twitter, Google, Youtube, Microsoft, the Commission adopted in May 2016 a "Code of Conduct for Illegal Online Hate Speech" in which Internet companies commit themselves, among other things, to eliminating illegal content within 24 hours. Major Internet companies have made significant efforts since the creation of the Forum. To give you an idea, the Facebook company has recruited 3,000 people to do this - which does not bring it any money. These are enormous efforts. At European Union level, our country continues to call for stricter legal obligations in consultation with the supplier and law enforcement agencies, with a view to carrying out criminal investigations. For more information, I refer you to my colleague Koen Geens, Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic712x.u19	Thank you, Minister. I was indeed able to question the Foreign Minister last week. You're bringing me valuable additional information here. I think everyone will agree that it is necessary to stok achter de der, as they say! We must start with cooperation. We see a desire on the part of the large operators to cooperate and collaborate more important than it was a few months ago, because the policy of the empty chair was in force at that time. Cooperation, first, and then forced.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic712x.u20	Minister, I am reminded that in order to become a colonel, a zone commander must take the senior military administrator course for a full-time period of 14 months at the military school. This condition of highest rank is currently incompatible with the responsibilities and commitment of zone commanders, particularly small areas. It would be dangerous for the relief zones to dispose of their commander for more than a year while he is the driving force behind reform in his relief zone. So, Minister, do you think you can propose a less penalizing solution for these relief areas? And if this is not the case, could you accept a transitional provision allowing zone commanders to reach the rank of colonel under the responsibility of the zonal authorities and based on the results of the assessment provided for in the Royal Decree of 26 March 2014 setting out the function profile and the modalities of its selection and evaluation?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic712x.u21	Mr Gustin, first of all, I would like to point out that the condition of holding a diploma no longer exists to be promoted to the rank of colonel, following the annulment of this provision by the Council of State in January 2017. In the present state of the law, the conditions for promotion to the rank of colonel are as follows: to be appointed to the rank of captain or major; to have obtained the mention "satisfactory", "good" or "very good" during the last assessment; to hold the certificate of Of4 (level 4 officer); to have passed the promotion test and to hold a level A diploma or to have passed a social promotion test. The content of the Of4 patent has not yet been determined. However, I intend to propose to the Council of Ministers, and then to the King, that this condition be replaced by that of successful training. A reflection still needs to be carried out, in order to be able to determine the different formations, which will make it possible to apply for a promotion of the rank at which one is. It is therefore not my intention to propose a single course. Candidates may have a choice. It will also depend on the skills they have already acquired. And the course you just mentioned is one of those possibilities. The superior military administrator course organized by the Royal Military School should be one of these courses, but not the single training or one way to obtain the rank of colonel. With regard to the concerns of some zone commanders, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the success of a training course obviously does not lead to an automatic promotion to the rank of colonel. A colonel's position must be provided for in the personnel plan and declared vacant to the zonal authority. Only the candidate who has obtained the best results in the promotion test can be promoted. Finally, the position of zone commander is not reserved for the colonel. Today, one or two colonels perform this function, but it is not limited to that rank. It is possible to apply for this position from the rank of captain. Whatever his rank, the commander of a rescue zone is the hierarchical superior of all personnel in the area. So he's above the colonel's rank. The higher military administrator's course is therefore not an obligation for zone commanders. In relation to the reform of the emergency zones, what skills must the head of an area possess: better firefighter, better manager? We have forgotten this in the preparation of the reform: he should, in my opinion, be a good manager. Being a good firefighter is an asset, but first, he/she has to manage a medium business. There are many shortcomings in management skills in the field. I do not want to blame the zone heads: we should have foreseen this in the preparation of the reform. We didn't. Therefore, we are trying to correct this deficiency.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic712x.u22	Minister, thank you for your full answer. This will clarify the situation and alleviate the concerns of some people with regard to this training, which they felt was the only way to obtain the rank of colonel.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic712x.u23	Mr Deputy Prime Minister, the current situation has been marked by the dramatic fires in Portugal and unfortunately cost the lives of some 60 people. This disaster was caused by a number of parameters, but it seems already assumed that dry weather and increased dry vegetation in the woods have played a decisive role in the spread and intensity of the flames. As you know, our country has also been in a heat wave for several weeks. When asked about the risk of a disaster similar to that experienced in Portugal, an officer from the Vesdre – Hoëgne and Plateau relief zone, based in Verviers, said: "We are not specially prepared for this type of intervention, but we have an agreement with the federal police that can provide a helicopter to drop water, as well as an international aid agreement with France so that the canadairs can intervene. However, they will not be able to be there within ten minutes, it is necessary the agreement of the minister, then the time of the journey from the south of France". Of course, the cases of large uncontrollable forest fires are fortunately very rare in our country, but the services concerned should be ready and mobilised in the face of all scenarios, even the most unlikely, to ensure the safety of our citizens. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, what exactly are the terms of the agreement invoked for the intervention of the federal police helicopter in the fire zones? In concrete terms, what type of aircraft is involved and what is the time required for its operational mobilization? Is this device suitable for a large-scale fire with several fireplaces? Furthermore, what is planned in terms of staff training and operational strategies for fire departments and civil protection in the event of a large-scale fire? Finally, regarding the international agreement with France for the intervention of canadairs, can you communicate to us the content of these synergies with our French neighbour?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic712x.u24	There is a framework protocol of 20 November 2009 on cooperation between the Directorate-General for Civil Security and the Federal Police, which provides, inter alia, opportunities for pooling, mutual support, equipment and personnel. Implementing rules are transposed into additional protocols, such as air support, which entered into force on 1 July 2012. The protocol describes the procedures for trigger-type air support by the Federal Police Service (DAFA Directorate) and the missions defined by assistance to civil security services (fire and emergency preparedness). Possible types of support include, for example, aerial observation, the transport of equipment and personnel, the control of possible homes and the evacuation of persons. The roles and tasks of the various actors are described: the field operations directors, the ICC, the national contact point of the federal police, the DAFA and the crisis centre. In addition, there are implementing rules, a standard application form and a standardised operational procedure dealing with alert and communication, activation, intervention and logistical aspects. The type of device concerned is a Bambi Bucket, with a capacity of 1000 liters allowing extinction. It is the DAFA that confirms the availability of the helicopter and the possible delay of engagement, depending on a range of factors such as the stand-by, the crew recall, airport-specific take-off procedures, flight time to the appointment, weather, route assigned and distance between a water extraction point and the drop location. There are usually 20 minutes of preparation for the trip and 20 minutes of local preparation. This Bambi Bucket is suitable for a fire with several fires, but it must be taken into account that, for an effective intervention, the time interval between two discharges cannot exceed five minutes and that good communication and potential consultation with the CP OBS and the AERO liaison officer must be ensured. Generally, fire departments and civil protection units have their own internal procedures for dealing with large-scale fires. In addition, for fire departments, there are operational and standardized procedures for the Federal Civil Safety Knowledge Centre, for example, for natural firefighting and emergency air support. As soon as the procedures are validated, certification courses based on the French course can be set up. Ten firefighters and twenty-four civil protection personnel were trained in France at the forest fire school concerning the filling of an aircraft like a canadair. In collaboration with fire schools, KCCE also purchased XVR licences (virtual study program) to teach the approach to forest fires. Virtual reality is developed by the French school. The provinces of Liège and Antwerp and the rescue areas most affected by forest fires have special plans for forest fires and organize regular exercises. Spain, France, Italy and Portugal decided in May 2006 to work together (Fire 4) to jointly intervene in the event of a major disaster and to create a veritable laboratory for the implementation of the European Civil Protection Mechanism and to anticipate its application for better protection of our populations. When the European Civil Protection Mechanism is implemented, the means of Fire 4 are immediately placed under European coordination. Detachments are mainly involved in earthquake-related interventions (research and rescue), forest fires and floods. The points of contact declared in each of the four countries are identical to those of the European Civil Protection Mechanism. The rapid response force is composed of detachments of 60 men per country, each according to their skills. Each detachment has a six-hour alert period and a 96-hour autonomy. Greece and Cyprus joined the rapid response force of the four countries. The Fire 6 countries made the results of their work available to the European Commission and other Member States. Belgium is convinced that this agreement brings real added value to the pooling of capabilities, carried out under the aegis of the EU Civil Protection Mechanism, committed itself in 2011 to join the Fire to become its seventh member. In the framework of Fire 7, Belgium can, for example, make available a mobile station and in turn benefits from means of aerial extinction from partner countries, in particular France, the nearest country. Civil protection officers have also been specially trained in the reception of such air assets. You will always find statements in the press from people who want to worry public opinion. It is wrong to say that we have only this international service. We also have our own air service, but in support, in the event of a major disaster, we can also call on the support of French colleagues, but this is not the main means.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic712x.u25	Minister, thank you for this complete and precise answer. It has the merit of clarifying certain things, particularly in relation to what has been mentioned in the press, with a somewhat alarmist side for public opinion. It is positive that you can clarify and re-state certain information, thus demonstrating that the mechanisms and procedures do exist in our country and that there are, moreover, for the most sensitive cases, possible recourses with neighbouring partners, even if we hope not to have recourse to them. Minister, I thank you again for these encouraging and reassuring elements of response.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic712x.u26	Question No 19551 by Mr Raf Terwingen is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic712x.u27	Mr President, Minister, EDF has indicated that recent controls on the anchoring of expansion vessels and other equipment necessary for the proper functioning of the emergency generators of many of its French nuclear power plants have highlighted discrepancies that call into question the ability of these generators to perform their functions in the event of an earthquake. The loss of functions provided by expansion vessels would lead to the unavailability of emergency generators in the very short term. The same applies to auxiliaries, which could lead to an accident with heart fusion. At this stage, according to the IRSN report, EDF has not provided any additional clarification regarding these deviations. My questions are as follows. Were you informed of this French situation? What analysis do you make of it? What about each of the Belgian reactors? Can you clarify the situation of the anchors of the expansion vessels and other equipment necessary for the proper functioning of the emergency generators, both for Doel and Tihange and Mol? Do you have all the necessary guarantees in this regard? When was the last inspection of the generators that dealt with this specific point of the earthquake? The information recorded in France on the anchors of expansion vessels and other materials is such that each of our emergency generators can be evaluated specifically on these weak points. When will this specific inspection take place?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic712x.u28	Mr President, Mr Nollet, the Agence fédérale de contrôle nucléaire (AFCN) was informed of this French situation thanks to the INES notification of its French counterpart, the Autorité de sécurité nucléaire (ASN). The AFCN does not analyse or question the analyses of its French counterpart, but takes note of them with a view to drawing lessons from them with regard to Belgian nuclear installations. A first analysis was carried out by Bel V on the basis of the information published by the ASN. The problem currently appears to be limited to EDF 1,300 MW plants. According to information on the anchorage of auxiliary systems of emergency diesel generators, it has not been shown that these systems are sufficiently resistant to earthquakes. This covers both a generic problem, relating to the design of the anchorage, as well as local problems concerning the condition or poor mounting of the anchorage. After an initial analysis of this French experience, the Belgian nuclear facilities do not require further action or specific inspections, either in Doel, Tihange or Mol. I remind you that during the stress tests in 2011, the findings on the ground were made by earthquake experts on earthquake resistance for a complete selection of systems, including safety and emergency diesel generators, in Doel and Tihange. As a result of these assessments, no deficiencies were identified and no recommendations were made for diesel units. In addition, the performance and condition of diesel generators are regularly monitored by the Bel V standard control program.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic712x.u29	Minister, were these checks and tests also about anchor points?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic712x.u30	Yes.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic712x.u31	The French situation deals specifically with this and not with the whole. I didn't know it was about that too. It is rather odd that in France, it was discovered later, and not at the time of these controls. I thought a series of things had been checked, but not the earthquake anchors. This is also one of the reasons why the ASN, in France, gave three weeks to ensure that at least one of the two emergency diesels was once again anchored. This delay is very tight; that is, if there was an emergency. But it is all the better if, in Belgium, this has been controlled. That's what your answer implies.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic712x.u32	Minister, our country - this is an excellent thing - hosts a lot of popular music festivals during the summer. These large organizations need a considerable number of volunteers in order to function properly. You issued a circular inviting security volunteers to be screened beforehand by local police, in particular with a view to combating possible malicious conduct, including terrorism. Some organizers preferred to use a general screening of their volunteers, not just those indicated in the circular. This local choice can be understood and is partly justified. Above all, there is a significant increase in the workload for the police areas concerned, even if they seem to accommodate the demand for good grace, in view of the useful precaution that this entails. However, these requests from the organizers of the biggest festivals to extend it to all volunteers raise the question of the effectiveness of reducing this screening solely to those responsible for security. Although the visibility of a larger event is also greater and therefore a more enviable target for terrorists, this does not reduce the vulnerability of smaller events, which nevertheless host a considerable concentration of people. Are you considering a general extension of the screening measure for volunteers for next year or would you prefer these additional measures to remain applicable at the discretion of local initiatives? All of this is subject to the results and findings observed this year, where the circular was applied.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic712x.u33	The screening of volunteers remains an initiative of the local administration of the place where the event takes place. It is based on risk analysis and local authorities are best placed to carry out this assessment. In the future, we must continue to rationalize the framework within which this action has taken place. I confirm that there are many questions about this. To do this, we are already in consultation with the relevant actors (local police, federal police, organizers of major events), in order to prepare a more general framework for the following year.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic712x.u34	I believe that a frame of reference does indeed correspond to a request from the local authorities, in order to avoid embarking on a general screening that raises other questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic712x.u35	Mr President, Minister, I have already had the opportunity to convey to you my most serious concerns about the anomalies discovered on the tank of the EPR of Flamanville, France, neighbouring country. The High Committee for Transparency and Information on Nuclear Security has just released its report on these anomalies. In this report, it is clear that neither Areva nor EDF complied with the rules. EDF and Areva also failed to explain to the public the origin of the anomalies and the history of the design and manufacture of the EPR reactor tank. Since my question was tabled, it seems to me that the AFSN has delivered its first opinion. This opinion must be subject to public consultation with a view to a final decision to be taken in the autumn. Minister, are you aware of the situation and the elements of this issue? What is your analysis of the situation at our borders? Is the PSAN proactive or reactive on this file? Do you have or will you pass on to your French counterpart our questions and concerns, as some neighbouring countries are rightly doing with regard to our problem power stations? Do you not fear the policy of the fait accompli of EDF and Areva that will promote economic and financial issues?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic712x.u36	Mr President, Mr Nollet, as I have already explained in the answer to the previous question, the AFCN has indeed become aware of this French situation and of the elements of this dossier. The AFCN does not analyse and question the analyses of its French counterpart, the ASN, but takes note of them, with a view to drawing lessons from them with regard to Belgian nuclear installations. The role and responsibilities of AFCN are to inspect and control Belgian nuclear facilities. The AFCN therefore did not express any concerns with its French counterpart. The AFCN obtained information on these anomalies with a view to learning from them. The potential problem of carbon content of forging elements was closely monitored by AFCN and its subsidiary Bel V. Following the information published by the French safety authority on the Flamanville PRT, AFCN has already asked Electrabel, in July 2016, to make every effort to determine whether this problem applies to the primary circuits of Belgian nuclear reactors. At present, there is no evidence on the files or any measure suggesting that Belgian reactors are affected by this problem. The AFCN considers this file to be closed as regards Belgian nuclear installations. The AFCN cannot express itself on a policy of EDF-Areva.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic712x.u37	Mr Minister, I find this a little paradoxical when Belgium is constantly being questioned by its neighbouring countries – and I repeat this again – on the situation of its power plants, Belgium rightly prevents it from questioning the problematic situation of at least one of the plants – and the biggest – that is envisaged in France. When the official authorities announce that the safety margins will be reduced by a factor of two to three for a nuclear power plant located in a neighbouring country, I think that Belgium, perhaps not AFCN, but at the very least you, then, could even ask questions, even if only question, if only relay our concerns. Would you dare to board an aircraft whose safety margins are reduced by a factor of two to three? At least I think we'd be asking questions. I repeat, in this case, the French independent authority has been put under strong economic pressure. And that's where neighbouring countries can help, too. It is a bit like in our situation, on the contrary, obviously, since, here, it has really found itself in the middle – and almost in the place of politics – accounting for the fate of the French nuclear industry, its industrial future and the thousands of jobs linked to it because if it questioned the measure, there was a huge economic stake. The French now seem to have moved from a zero-risk policy to an acceptable risk policy. In my view, this requires a Belgian reaction. You still have time to do so, until September or October, since the opinion given is only provisional. I advise you to review this file with these remarks during your vacation. The authorities of neighbouring countries may have a larger role to play than they think – except that it is better not to intervene so that the French do not intervene in the problems of our power stations. In my opinion, that would be a bad calculation.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic712x.u38	Mr Minister, it seems that a debate is taking place at the moment within your services on the model to be adopted in order to objectiveise the processes, the intensity and dangerousness of radicalisation, as well as the risk of taking action, particularly on social networks and in prisons. The Sûreté de l'Etat and prison staff have, it seems, already adopted the VERA 2R model, VERA being the acronym of Violent Extreme Risk Assessment and VERA 2R being the third version of this model. This model was developed by a Dutch Canadian, Mrs Pressman, and seems to have the support of the United Nations and other European Union countries in particular. I do not know if this model is the best, but it is in any case internationally recognised, and some services already use it in Belgium as security and prison administration, but it seems not the police. Another model seems to be favored by some security services in the north of the country, the Radix model. But, according to my information, this model does not seem to have been thoroughly evaluated. Moreover, it appears to exist only in Dutch and, therefore, could pose problems, in addition to questions on its effectiveness, in its implementation in the south of the country. Consistency problems could also arise in relation to other systems that also exist in other State security services. Minister, what is the status of the adoption by all of our security services (police, intelligence services, corrections) of a model of objectivation of radicalization processes? Is it true that there is a risk of two different models coexisting? Is it not in the best interest to adopt a single model, which has already proved its worth at the international level and which has the support of the United Nations?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic712x.u39	It is true that a tool has been sought at some point, allowing people to be assessed in their radicalization process, using objective criteria. The aim is to conduct a risk analysis, taking into account the safety aspect. In this context, DG Prisons (EPI) has opted for an internationally recognised tool, VERA 2R, to which you referred. Currently, we are looking at how this or other similar instruments can be used by security and intelligence services. The other tool you mention, Radix, is not a real "taxation" of risks. Rather, it is a method of assessment that must be used to determine the area in which an individual's vulnerabilities are located. The result makes it possible to define more clearly where the necessary action points are located. It is therefore a tool for socio-preventive assistance. Of course, an aspect of propensity for action is associated with this tool. This aspect has an alert function and can therefore indicate that an individual must be transferred to the security services. There is therefore an essential difference between the two tools: one focused more on socio-preventive support and assistance, the other clearly focused on security services. The coexistence of the two tools therefore does not seem to be a problem because they have different objectives. The Radix tool has been developed, on the basis of the existing tool from the Netherlands, by the Antwerp prevention services and has been used to great satisfaction for some time. For the moment, the tool only exists in Dutch. As I understand it, the Flemish authorities would make this tool available to Flemish cities and municipalities, in consultation with the VVSG, the association of cities and municipalities in Flanders.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic712x.u40	Minister, I hear the difference you make between the two systems. I also hear that there has not yet been a decision on the generalization of the VERA 2R tool at the level of the police services. I plead for progress in this area, because I understand that DG PPE has already taken a decision in this area, as well as State Security. It would therefore be important for the police services to be able to adopt the same system and to have overall coherence from this point of view. I hear what you're saying about the Radix. I am still a little surprised that a tool is being developed, in the north of the country, which would not be adopted by the whole country. As I know, you are the Minister of Security and Home Affairs for the whole country. I would therefore like this tool, if it is useful, complementary, properly evaluated and appropriate, to be adopted by the whole country. That seems indispensable to me. I would therefore like it to be developed not only in Dutch, but in the north of the country. If, at any time, you, as Belgian Minister of the Interior, consider it useful for the whole country, it must be able to be developed for all services, provided it is complementary to the VERA 2R system.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic712x.u41	I can confirm that. An evaluation will be made of the pilot project under way in Antwerp. If this proves useful, the tool will be made available in French for the south of the country. There is no doubt about that.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic712x.u42	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Konrad Degroote's 19700 question was converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic712x.u43	Mr President, Deputy Prime Minister, an application 112 is now available to facilitate calls for help via new technologies. This is an additional means of reaching police, firefighters or medical emergencies. This is an important step that deserves to be welcomed. In addition to the advantages of geolocation of the alert and the availability of pre-encoded information from users, such as the person around him or her to be notified in the event of an emergency, a channel should also allow communication in writing with the services concerned. It is a small revolution both for our deaf and hard of hearing fellow citizens, but also for all those confined, who cannot express themselves verbally for security reasons, especially in the event of burglary, hostage-taking or terrorist attack. I welcome the arrival of this tool, which will certainly strengthen the care and support of the citizens of our country in the event of an emergency. Minister, what measures are planned to inform the public as widely as possible of the arrival of this tool? Which platforms should host this application? Is the latter developed for a very wide range of mobile operating systems? Is there a period for evaluation of the scheme? If so, what is the deadline? Finally, what measures have been taken to prevent abuse of the tool, particularly of hoaxes?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic712x.u44	Mr Calomne, the app was launched on 23 June with a presentation to the press at the joint call centre 112-101 of the Flemish Brabant, which I attended jointly with my colleague, the Minister of Public Health. The application was promoted on that day on the website www.112.be, through a press release and via social media. The following week, the app was the subject of a multi-day advertising campaign in the free Belgian daily Metro, with a banner, an infographic and a maze in the "games" section, and in the online version of the newspaper. A text, infographic and banner were then shared, in particular with the municipalities. Emergency services and other services were also invited to refer to them on their websites and in their periodicals. We have chosen to promote this application in stages to ensure a regular recall in the population. From September onwards, articles will again be published on websites of several news media, including Het Laatste Nieuws, 7sur7, Sudinfo and RTL info. Specifically for the target group of deaf, hard of hearing or speech impaired people, a sign language film is currently being developed for the website www.112.be, as well as a brochure to be distributed via the Federations of the Deaf: Fédération francophone des deux de Belgique (FFSB) and Federatie van Vlaamse dovenorganisaties (FEVLADO) In addition, on the day before the launch, a specific demonstration for this target group is also organized by my services. In a first phase, the development of the 112 BE app was limited to smartphones equipped with an iOS (Apple) and Android operating system. These smartphones account for over 99% of the market share, which makes it possible to directly reach a very large group of potential users. It will be examined whether this application can also be made available on other operating systems, but this item will be balanced under development. To evaluate the 112 BE app, the number of downloads - 120 000 since June 23 - will be kept up to date and a follow-up of comments will be ensured via my services and Nextel. We cannot express the evaluation in number of calls and downloads, there are already examples where the 112 BE app made the difference. For example, on the Monday following the release of app 112 BE, one person called the emergency call centre (112 in Antwerp) to report a heather fire in Dessel. The appellant was located along a bike path and could not indicate an address. Thanks to the rapid location of the 112 BE app, its location was transmitted to the emergency centre. Last week, on Monday, July 3, a group of walkers in the forest of the province of Liège was able to be located more quickly thanks to this application in order to help a ten-year-old child who had fallen - closed fracture and disentanglement. This happened in a wood and it was therefore difficult for them to explain precisely where they were, but the application allowed them to be located very quickly. Another caller contacted an SICAD 101 but could not speak freely because of the excessive background noise. The telephone operator started the chat and asked the caller what the problem was. The appellant was able to respond directly, send the address and write the necessary information. An immediate danger emerged and the police were able to intervene directly. The government cannot ask representatives questions, but have you already downloaded 112 BE? Download the app!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic712x.u45	Deputy Prime Minister, it is promised, when I leave the committee, I will download the application. I will therefore be among the more than 120,000 users who have already downloaded it. This figure is obviously encouraging and shows that it represents, if not a need, an interest and a benefit to many of our fellow citizens. The device has the merit of existing, it is in line with technological evolution. But also, as your various examples show, it is already useful in situations, in terms of geolocation or in cases of non-praticability of conventional devices; in this case, it was the noise that you had put forward in one of your examples. Perhaps we can still do better and the campaign you are going to run in September may be able to make it more known to the general public. It is very good to place new devices but it is even better that they are actually and concretely used by the greatest number of people. I can only encourage you in this direction. I will also make the request to my municipality, since the communes have been made aware of this, so that it can also be relayed at the local level.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic712x.u46	In Apple's App Store, 112 BE is presented as the first in the list of apps available for download. It also helps.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic712x.u47	We will see if Mr Flahaux will be here because he is still present at another meeting, as well as Mrs Jadin. The two questions put by Mrs Gabriel's Nos. 19770 and 19771 are converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic712x.u48	Mr President, Minister, the local police currently have a mailbox system called PUMA to communicate with the various integrated police services. This system will no longer be supported from 2018 and will be replaced by a new messaging structure put in place by the management of the federal police. It will be accessible on a permanent basis to all members of the integrated police force. This tool will be hosted on the servers of the Prime Minister's Chancellery and will benefit from guaranteed federal funding until 2019, the date of the next parliamentary elections. This new system is a sine qua non for the development of the tools put in place by the federal police and is therefore simply indispensable within the integrated police force. Recently, the various local police forces in the country have been asked to accept the establishment of this new structure. Knowing that its funding is only available until 2019, allow me, Minister, to ask you two questions. Given this de facto obligation to use this new system, will a more sustainable method of financing be put in place? How to ensure that after 2019, police areas will not have to pay these expenses in their budget?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic712x.u49	Mr Delannois, as you rightly point out in your introduction, the new integrated police messaging system is included in a package. It is the SPE license that lays the foundation for the modernization of the integrated police computer system. As such, and without wishing to call into question the principle of the autonomy of the police areas, it is important to underline the indispensable nature of the acceptance by the local police of this licence, knowing that it is financially taken over by the federal government until 2019. We are actively working on the sustainability of this care. If, in spite of all this, funding could not be secured, the method of financing would again be discussed in a completely open manner with all stakeholders, without taking financing measures that would impact police areas unilaterally.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic712x.u50	Thank you, Minister. Indeed, I hope that you will take into account the problems of the different police areas and, especially beyond the police areas, the communal finances. As you know, it's always the game of communicating vases and it's anyway to the communes that at some point you have to turn. The subject is worth it. If we could find sustainable financing, it would be an excellent thing.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic712x.u51	Mr President, Minister Belgoprocess, the body in charge of the treatment and storage of Belgian radioactive waste, wishes to be able to build a new building to store the famous drums containing nuclear waste in which the appearance of a gelatinous substance has been observed. The cost of the project would be EUR 50 million. These drums had been conditioned by Electrabel and came from the Doel power plant. In question: an unexpected chemical reaction in the concrete in which the nuclear waste had been fixed. Because of their potential danger, these drums cannot be buried. In total, some 10,000 drums are potentially affected. Minister, when did the AFCN receive a file to that effect? What's his analysis? Will the municipalities around the site, as it should be, organise a public inquiry? If so, when?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic712x.u52	Mr Nollet, you will also find an answer to your questions on the AFCN website, which published a message on June 14 regarding Belgoprocess's request to modify and extend its current operating authorisation. I'll tell you the key elements of this message. Belgoprocess, a company active in the management of radioactive waste, has requested a modification and extension of its current authorisation of site 1 in Dessel. This site is licensed as a Class 1 facility. SA Belgoprocess operates a variety of radioactive waste storage and treatment facilities on site 1 of Dessel. In April 2017, the company submitted an application to amend and extend its current site operating authorization to permit the construction of a new 167X storage building. On the basis of the information made available to it and the evaluation carried out by Bel V, AFCN concluded that the modification and extension of the current operating authorisation for Site 1 is justified and that the dossier meets the requirements to be complete and mature. At the same time, a satisfactory security guarantee has been given. The Scientific Council of the AFCN gave a favourable preliminary opinion on 19 May 2017. In June 2017, the request was then forwarded to the municipalities located within a radius of five kilometres around the site, namely those of Dessel, Mol, Geel, Retie and Kasterlee to issue an opinion and to organise a public inquiry. Any comments and objections may be made during this public inquiry. At the end of the meeting, the colleges of the burmese and aldermen will issue an opinion. Once the opinions of the communes have been received, the Province of Antwerp will in turn be consulted.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic712x.u53	Minister, thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic712x.u54	Mr Minister, at the committee meeting on 9 December 2015, I presented the following issue to you. Among other things in the border region with France, in the province of West Flanders, a camera shield was rolled out. All cameras are linked to a provincial server in which all kinds of data are collected, such as number plates to be traced and the nature of the facts for which they may be ended. I said then that it would be better for private cameras, such as car parks or business sites, to be connected to that network. At that time, that was not legally possible. In December 2015, you replied that it may be indicated that the police services have in real time the number plates, which are read out by ANPR cameras managed by private individuals. This may help in real-time interventions or in subsequent investigations to determine the constituent elements of a crime or nuisance. The public-private collaboration for the use of surveillance cameras was analysed at that time. You were reviewing the law of March 2007 regulating the placement and use of surveillance cameras and you had asked the General Security and Prevention Board of the FOD to take that aspect with you. Almost a year ago, the first reading of the camera law was approved by the Council of Ministers. Following the processing of the opinions, including those of the Commission for the Protection of Privacy, a second reading would take place. More than a year ago it was also announced that a thousand ANPR cameras would be placed on motorways and crossings of motorways and ring roads. The first cameras were supposed to be posted last year. The rollout would be completed by 2018. Firstly, is it now clear whether the aspect of the connection of private cameras to the networks mentioned will be taken into account in the legislative amendment? If so, in what sense? If not, why? Secondly, what is generally the state of play with regard to the revision of, on the one hand, the law of March 2017 regulating the placement and use of surveillance cameras and, on the other hand, the legislation on camera use by police forces? Thirdly, how far is the realisation of a national camera shield? What's the further planning?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic712x.u55	Mrs Lahaye-Battheu, it is intended to adopt a draft camera law which meets the requirements in the field while respecting fundamental rights. Indeed, the text provides for the connection of private cameras to the servers of the police services, albeit to a limited extent, only for places where this is justified for security reasons. We had to adapt the text in this way, as the Committee for the Protection of the Personal Life Area underlined in its opinion 15 of 27 April 2016 that a general authorisation for the police to have real-time access to images of cameras installed in public-access places has an excessive impact on privacy. In this respect, we have had to comply with the advice of the privacy committee. So, what's the status of the camera law? On 20 July 2016, almost a year ago, a preliminary draft was submitted to the Council of Ministers. These were two texts, one text amending the camera law and a second text amending the law on the police officer to introduce the rules for the use of cameras by police forces. Following the adoption of these drafts at first reading, they were submitted for an opinion to the Commission for the Protection of the Personal Environment and to the Council of State, which issued their opinions in September and October. The College of Attorneys General was also consulted on the draft amendment of the law on the police officer and gave its opinion at the end of November. However, these opinions were rather extensive and, in order to take them into account, an amendment was made to the texts in consultation with the various partners, in particular the police services, in order to submit the drafts to the Council of Ministers at second reading. It is important to take into account the opinions of these bodies and the evolution of technology, the operational needs of police forces and the protection of citizens' private lives. There is a need to strike a proper balance between the different interests involved and to ensure that the law is in line with national and European regulations on the subject. As always when fundamental rights are affected, the search for balance is a delicate task, which must be said to require the necessary time for reflection and analysis. The text will therefore be finalised in the near future in order to present it to the government at second reading. Finally, the national camera shield for ANPR is set up in two phases. Phase 1 includes the installation of ANPR sites at the border crossings on the motorways. In total, twenty-four such sites are planned, where you need to understand a cross section of a motorway in one direction under one site. Twenty-two of these twenty-four sites are built by the federal police; two sites are of the Flemish government, which will be connected to the national back office. The first phase will be carried out on the basis of an existing but ending framework contract of the Flemish Region. The delivery of the twenty-four border sites is expected in the second semester of 2017. Phase 2 includes the installation of ANPR sites on motorways, ring roads and critical infrastructure on the one hand, and I think this is perhaps the most important aspect of the integration of the existing back offices of the local police into the national back office on the other. This phase will be achieved on the basis of a new framework contract. The new framework contract is currently under evaluation. We believe that we will be able to award that contract in the second half of this year. The realisation of the second phase will then begin in the first semester of 2018 and the deployment of the installations will continue until 2019. In short, there are not only additional camera sites; all back offices are also connected to one large national camera network.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic712x.u56	Mr President, I would like to thank the Minister for that interesting answer. It shall be possible to connect private camera dynamometers to the existing network, with the limitation that this can only be done where it is justified for safety reasons. That certainly represents an important step forward. In addition, the network is closed to a national camera shield for all available information. In this way, security can be further increased.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic712x.u57	Mr Flahaux, would you like to ask your question or do you give your place to Mrs Lahaye-Battheu?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic712x.u58	Mr President, I give my place to Mrs Lahaye-Battheu.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic712x.u59	Mr President, I thank Mr Flahaux and appreciate his gesture. Mr Minister, a survey by the VUB of over 3 700 doctors, who recently appeared in the news, shows that 84.4% of them had already experienced violence during their careers. It is also worrying that the majority, 78%, do not report this to the police. Among other things, the sector advocates preventive police supervision in groups at risk. Some areas already have agreements with general practitioners, but a legal framework would still be lacking. At the end of April it was announced that a circular letter would be sent in the short term to all police areas to raise awareness, identify possible problems and establish closer cooperation between police, justice and general practitioners. A working group has been working on this issue for some time. Mr Minister, my first question may be difficult to answer, but do you have figures for the last five years of the number of reports of aggression by medical personnel? Secondly, what legal gaps still need to be addressed with regard to preventive police supervision in groups at risk? Thirdly, is the announced circular completed? If so, can you explain it? Fourthly, what is the state of play on the work of the working party? What is already a consensus on?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic712x.u60	Mr President, Mrs Lahaye-Battheu, you asked for figures on violence against doctors. The only reliable figures available to the police are those relating to deliberate beatings and injuries to an ambulance, a pharmacist or a member of the medical or paramedical staff, as the victim's information is contained in the fact-finding qualification itself. The table shows the number of facts recorded by the police on deliberate success of practitioners of a medical profession, as recorded in the ANG on the basis of the minutes for the period 2012-2016 at national level. It is therefore not just about violence against doctors but against practitioners of medical professions in general. See figures for 2012: 196, 2013: 176, 2014: 171, 2015: 174 and 2016: 205. So that's pretty stable. This table gives you a general indication of the scope of the requested phenomenon. A further breakdown based on the victim's occupation or on the form of violence used is not possible. Only the global heading and therefore not the detailed information on the victims is included in the ANG. In the future, it will be possible to detail the victims, so that the police can collect more targeted statistical information on the victims, in order to prevent crime. I come to your next questions. Close cooperation between local police and general practitioners can indeed contribute to increased safety for general practitioners. Among other things, the police zone RIHO, Roeselare-Izegem-Hooglede, has already had several years of experience with its application during the guard service. Inspired by this, I am currently having my services examine the possibility of encouraging cooperation and the exchange of information between the general practitioners, the guards and the police. In essence, therefore, this is the subject of a redirection letter or other directive or recommendation. As this approach has an implication on the functioning of the police forces, a consultation with the Permanent Commission of Local Police is necessary. Together with the Standing Committee, I want to come up with a project that is supported by the various parties. The working group, which includes general practitioners, will be reconvened as soon as a draft directive is ready and a short-term dissemination is planned. That will certainly happen this autumn, in October. Then the new brochure will also be presented to the partners.A safe doctor's practice: prevention tips to make your practice and work environment safe. I would add that the 112 app also offers the opportunity to say in a free field that one is a doctor. In case of aggression, the services can be contacted immediately via this app 112 and if they see that a doctor's call is coming, the appropriate response will be given.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic712x.u61	Minister, I assume that the table will be sent through, for which I am grateful.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic712x.u62	Mr Minister, iodine 131, a radioactive element derived mainly from the fission of heavy atoms, was detected in January in the state of trace in several European countries. The origin of this contamination, without risk to health, remains unknown. This radionuclide of artificial origin was first observed in Norway in January, according to the French Institute for Radiation Protection and Nuclear Safety (IRSN). Other detections of iodine 131 were then measured in Finland, the Czech Republic, Germany, France and Spain. The highest concentrations of 5.9 microbecquerels per cubic metre of air were detected in Poland. You see I've learned a lot myself! Although there is no risk of this contamination, its origin is intriguing. It could come from an accidental release of a nuclear reactor, but more likely from a medical radioisotope production plant. The U.S. Army sent a sniffer to Europe, an aircraft of the U.S. Air Force capable of analyzing radioactive activity in the air. In particular, it was used after the Chernobyl tragedy in 1986 and Fukushima in 2011 or 2013, after North Korean missile fire, according to a specialized site. Minister, has Belgium, like its French neighbours, detected these nuclides? If so, can you confirm that there is no health risk? At what level can this radioactivity be compared? Do you already have some information about the origin of these possible leaks? Do we have the equipment to carry out measurements of such phenomena? If so, from what thresholds? Finally, if not, does AFCN have access to the results of the American army's research through its sniffer?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic712x.u63	The Federal Nuclear Control Agency's air radioactivity control facilities are not sized to reach such low detection limits. Radiological monitoring of the territory is aimed at monitoring the radiological quality of the environment, in order to ensure that there is no risk to the population and workers. These facilities are sized to detect a significant release, which is not the case here. Iodine concentrations less than or equal to 6 microbecquerels/m3 do not pose a health risk. The General Regulation for the protection of the population, workers and the environment from the danger of ionizing radiation (Annex III, Table H2) defines the maximum concentrations of radionuclides in releases of radioactive gaseous waste. This concentration is 17 Bq/m3 for 131I incorporation, which is more than 28,000 times higher than the maximum level detected during the passage of the said cloud. The level can be compared as follows: in January 2017; for four weeks of air filtration, at 110 m3 per day, measurements made on all filters collected in Brussels give the following results: detection of 2.12 millibecquerels/m3, 131I not detected, detection limit 2.87 and C137 not detected, detection limit 0.016 microbecquerels/m3. As a result, concentrations below or equal to 6 nanobecquerels/m3 are well below the detection limits of AFCN devices, for four-week filtered volumes between 3,000 and 3,500 m3. Currently, the AFCN does not have any information on the origin of these possible leaks. The measurements carried out by countries such as Norway are based on ultra-high filtration facilities which allow to filter in one day what in Belgium, AFCN filters in one month, very large daily flows of several thousand m3 and very large diameter filters. The AFCN does not have this type of equipment because, as you know, its mission is to control the radiological quality of the environment, in order to ensure that there is no risk to the population and workers. In this case, iodine levels have no health consequences and do not represent a risk. It was only through the media that AFCN learned that sniffers would be deployed in Europe by the American army. It does not have any information on the actual deployment or any results of such deployment.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic712x.u64	Minister, thank you for your answer. You will understand that in the name of the famous precautionary principle, I prefer to anticipate by asking this question. I am particularly pleased that Mr Nollet has heard your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic712x.u65	In fact, this is a question I asked a month ago, and the minister answered me. However, he has given more details today, so I thank you for your question!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic712x.u66	Mr President, Mr Deputy Prime Minister, the Brussels press has recently echoed the discontent of the Schaerbeek authorities with regard to the unauthorised holding of a prayer in a street, a public place in this case. The police authorities, faced with the fait accompli, had to make a decision to manage public space, closing said street in order to avoid traffic embarrassment. It seems that many requests are made to the municipalities concerning religious activities in the public space and that the latter are, of course, most often refused. Minister, are you aware of any other facts of this type? When the mayors are confronted with this kind of wild and illegal demonstrations, what specific requests in terms of support can they be addressed to you?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic712x.u67	Mr President, Mrs Jadin, first of all, this type of event is a local responsibility. Secondly, the lack of a centralized national database on this type of event makes it difficult to obtain a comprehensive overview of these events. However, in accordance with Ministerial Directive MFO 2 and Ministerial Circular GPI 44ter, the federal police provide a centralized federal reserve (FERES). They are 20 policemen and a sprinkler 24 hours a day. FERES may be employed throughout the country and for the benefit of all police services. The police response plans in each district also provide that, in the context of emergency management, the local and federal police services in the field, whose missions may be interrupted, are primarily involved in strengthening the police area faced with the management of an unforeseen event. Federal police units, particularly DGA units such as road police, are actively involved in these contingency plans. In the event of a major and serious crisis, there is great solidarity between the police areas and spontaneous support is provided. Specific requests consist of support by special means, such as a sprinkler, arrest teams or additional human police means.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic712x.u68	Minister, thank you. I hear and welcome the fact that the organization is assured for urgent events. That's pretty reassuring. In the event of an emergency, the federal authorities must provide support to the local authorities. If I understand correctly, in this case, the request was not made. You confirm that you don't.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic712x.u69	Deputy Prime Minister, Belgium currently has 14 shooting stands for approximately 30,000 policemen. While current availabilities do not permit, these federal or local police officers must attend four shooting training sessions and one qualifying session per year. To address this lack of training problem, the federal police have already considered a masterplan for the creation of 21 additional shooting stands to accommodate 11,000 federal police officers. On the part of the local police, it seems that no plan is being considered and that at present it is "the rule of the scramble" – according to the articles to which I refer – with local police going to train most often in private stands. Deputy Prime Minister, will the creation of new shooting stands allow police officers to train once a month, as would be desirable or limited to the five mandatory trainings? What solutions are envisaged for the local police? Are there plans to create more shooting stands to allow local police to have access to them in the same way as the federal police? Is the use of private stands by our police officers frequent and used? What is the cost of this training requirement?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic712x.u70	Madam Jadin, first of all, I have to tell you that the police have more than 14 shooting centres. The 14 stands you refer to are those available for the federal police. We must also add those in the police areas, for example those in the Nivelles area, Genappe, etc. There are those of the intercommunals, such as Interleuven and the shooting stands of the provincial schools. So there are a lot of them. Circular GPI 48 was used as the basis for the calculation of requirements, but more specific needs, such as the recycling of special weapons fire monitors, were taken into account. As part of the methodology developed, consideration was therefore given to criteria based on the realities of police work. I would add that the Federal Police carried out its study by establishing a cadastre of needs for all the entities of the Federal Police, including the one created on my initiative: the Directorate of Security, which is in the process of being established. If a local police zone finds that there is a lack of a shooting range, it is considering solutions alone. The Federal Police conducted its study to cover its own needs, as part of the development of the Master Plan "Infrastructure" aimed at upgrading the complexes occupied by its services. However, collaboration between the federal police and local police areas may be considered. This should be done on a case-by-case basis, taking into account the safety standards that limit the number of firing lines, the number of candidates per monitor, etc. Finally, I do not have an overview of the money spent by the local police on the rental of shooting stands. These data are not centralized. However, I can tell you that the use of private shooting stands remains relatively marginal compared to the use of public services – federal, provincial or local. The cost of shooting stands under the strict jurisdiction of the private sector is not uniform. It can be between 115 and 230 euros per half-day.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic712x.u71	Minister, this is a very comprehensive answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic712x.u72	Mr President, Minister, in the context of the succession of radicalised individuals who may be involved in terrorist activities in our country, the OCAD maintains a common database resulting from the former FTF database. It is important that this list is sufficiently updated to ensure effective follow-up. I have the following questions. First, how many FTF drivers left in 2016 and in 2017, to this day? How many FTFs have come back in the meantime? How many FTF fighters were killed over there? How many FTFs are currently potential movers? Secondly, experts say that more and more women and children are returning. Is there a need for specific attention for this group? Thirdly, are the children also on the list of the OCAD? Is there a need for specific attention, approach and guidance for these minor returners? What initiatives are being taken in this area? Is there any consultation with the Communities in this area, for example, for possible follow-up? Finally, to what extent are home grown terrorists included on this list? Can this be done within the current legal framework? If yes, how many persons are on the OCAD list under this heading?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic712x.u73	Mr President, Mr Yüksel, the last OCAD list dated 15 June shows that 7 people left in 2016. In 2017, there are 3. In 2016 there were 9 returners. There isn't one in 2017 for the time being. With that nuance that some foreign fighters did not actually return to Belgium until 2017, but were previously registered as a returner because they were still stuck in Turkey. There are currently 122 Category 3 returners. I'll give you the table of breakdown by age, gender and province. There are also 122 movers who are believed to have died in Syria or Iraq. There are currently 134 registered applicants. The relationship with the providers is primarily a matter for the public prosecutor, police or intelligence services, who may request certain information in the context of an ongoing judicial or intelligence investigation. The OCAD has no insight into the extent to which the providers respond to these questions. A specific approach is needed to cope with the growing return of women and children. This is discussed in the context of the follow-up within the local task forces and also the local integrated security cells play an important role in this. There are both accompanied and unaccompanied minors on the OCAD list. Agreements are made between the Public Prosecutor's Office, the OCAD and the Communities with regard to minors returning with or without their families. Some of them return alone. As soon as the return of a family with a minor or minor is likely only within a short period of time, the partners shall be informed accordingly. The practical guidance of these minors falls within the competence of the Communities. At present, home terrorist fighters and hate preachers are also included in the common database in a pilot phase. The royal decrees that have to regulate this legally are finalized, so that can be presented in the government and then put into practice. So that is already being technically prepared. That's the table we're handing you. (Minister's representative handing over the table)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic712x.u74	Mr President, Minister, with regard to women and children, do you have a view of this? In the meantime, how many women and children, minors, accompanied and unaccompanied, have returned from Syria or Iraq?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic712x.u75	You will find the answer to this in the table.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic712x.u76	Minister, I agree with you that this group of women and children needs specific attention and guidance, especially with regard to babies and minors, who have no part in it. That group absolutely needs guidance. It is also clear that there is no returner in the last year. Those who go there stay there and may die in conflict or firefight. I am also pleased and satisfied that with regard to those lone wolves or home grown terrorists there is a trial going on, to follow them explicitly. We have seen in the attack at the Brussels Central Station that this is becoming a growing and dangerous group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic712x.u77	Mr President, Minister, the administrative status of operational personnel for the aid zones of 2014 provides for the possibility of re-employment of staff until this can be replaced. This is possible from 56 years onwards and if the staff member is declared medically unfit for the performance of his duties, but is declared fit for another post which is compatible with his state of health. It may also at its own request, where the staff member is 56 years old or has 15 years of seniority, and is part of the basic or middle framework, or of the higher framework and is primarily responsible for an operational task package. It is up to the Council of the relief zone to determine the other forms of re-employment within the zone. I think it is important that we make the most of this possibility. We want to keep people at work, but we also know that firefighters have a hard job and that some people do not last until retirement and therefore need adapted work. Minister, it is important that as much re-employment as possible can be offered through adapted jobs. Do you have an idea of the number of employees currently using this measure? What initiatives have you taken to assist the areas in preparing this measure so that it can be used as far as possible? I have another question. Is this also a solution for people who have to work half-time because of health problems? I have already established that people who were no longer allowed to work full-time took a half-time career break. When your career break is over, they have to opt for either full-time sickness benefit or half-time work, but with the effect that they are under-retirement. Of course, this cannot be the intention. It would be good for them if they continued to work half-time and, as soon as their career breaks are over, by means of this measure of re-employment, they received a half-time supplement from the sickness insurance scheme. This is also happening in the private sector, in the context of Back to Work by your colleague De Block. We try to keep people at work at the most, but sometimes it is better if someone can no longer work full-time, to keep him working half-time, and in this way the person concerned is not covered by full-time health insurance but by half-time. Perhaps this measure can provide a solution. Or are there any more stumbling blocks?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic712x.u78	Mr President, Mrs Lanjri, I do not see the number of staff currently using these two forms of re-employment. I would add immediately that re-employment can be both temporary and permanent for medical reasons. The re-employment for medical reasons is not a new issue for the zones, because the procedure also existed with the municipal fire services. It was the implementation of the Royal Decree of 28 May 2003 on health surveillance of workers. The employer is best placed to develop such a policy, taking into account the adapted functions available in the area and the competences and interests of the staff member. Re-employment at its own request has been a new end-of-life measure since the creation of the zones. The zoning employer has been given the necessary tools and regulations to develop and apply relevant policies to those concerned. This is to a large extent tailor-made and leaves more concrete initiatives to the zones. Nevertheless, my inspection services do pass on good practice to areas that are more difficult to find an adapted function. The Federal Supplementary Budget allocated to the Zones provided for an amount of end-of-life support for the Zone to provide financial support for the development and implementation of an end-of-life policy including re-employment at its own request and the end-of-life regime, an additional end-of-life measure included in the administrative status of firefighters. I will examine your suggestion, because that is indeed in line with the decision we have taken in the private sector. I think we should go through with this.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic712x.u79	Thank you, Minister, for your reply and for examining my suggestion. This is about people who want to work, but who unfortunately cannot because of their state of health. If they want to work half-time, this should be possible. What can be done in the private sector, we should also be able to make it possible for the firefighters
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic712x.u80	Question No 1, by Mr De Pasquale (H-l Mr Nollet's 19851, 19852, 19853 and 19855 were converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic712x.u81	At the request of the minister, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic712x.u82	At the Minister's request. It's been noted.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic712x.u83	I wanted to make that clear, because it often happens in the other direction.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic712x.u84	Minister, on 30 June, during a test of the emergency diesel group at the Tihange nuclear power plant, a major oil leak took place in the Meuse. Can you explain exactly what happened and how we got there? Was there a danger for the workers, for the residents, for the fauna and flora? Was this incident classified on the INES scale? How many litres of fuel oil were spilled? How long did it take to repot them? How long did it take for ad hoc services to be notified and on-site? Had such an incident ever occurred in the past? What changes have been made in the test to allow such an incident to occur? What has been put in place to prevent the recurrence of such an incident? How do you judge the words of the spokesperson of the plant for whom "an incident like this is one of the things that can happen on an industrial site like ours"? Is there not too much relativism in such a statement, when we know that the site in question is a nuclear site?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic712x.u85	Mr Nollet, since this was not a leak of radioactive substances, but an environmental incident, the AFCN is not the competent authority to examine in detail the circumstances of this incident and to follow up on it. The operator of the Tihange power plant formally notified the incident to the competent service of the Wallonia Public Service. I therefore refer you to the competent minister of the Walloon Region, to whom you can address your question. The incident was also not classified as such on the INES scale, as the INES scale does not apply to such incidents that are not directly related to nuclear safety or radiation protection.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic712x.u86	To which minister do you refer me to the Walloon Region?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic712x.u87	Perhaps you are better placed than I am to answer it!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic712x.u88	Mr President, Minister, at the end of June, Chernobyl computers were hit by the cyber attack using a ransomware from the Petya virus family. This attack forced Ukrainian nuclear power plant technicians to measure radioactivity with Geiger meters, as they did decades ago. In addition, companies operating nuclear power plants in the United States and elsewhere in the world were subjected to computer attacks last May and June, leading to the activation of a high level of alert, according to the New York Times, which cites a report by the United States authorities. The experts confirmed daily that the case was ranked at the second highest level of threats. These cyberattacks were recorded in a report by the U.S. Department of Homeland Security dated June 28. According to two relatives of the case who spoke anonymously, in most cases attacks targeted individuals, such as engineers who had access to damaged systems that could lead to an explosion or a fire in the nuclear reactor management circuits. It appears that the investigators failed to analyze the content of the hacker code, which would have made it possible to know what they were looking for. The origin of the attacks therefore remains unknown, but it seems that these hackers were supported by a government. Have you been aware of these attacks and of the reports that have been made as a result of these attacks? Do we know more about hackers? Have they been apprehended since then? Have the Belgian authorities been in contact with the US authorities to learn about cybersecurity from our own nuclear power plants? Are additional cybersecurity measures in our nuclear power plants envisaged as a result of the findings of this analysis, including the persistence of risk and the identification of hackers that could not be identified?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic712x.u89	Mr Nollet, the Federal Agency for Nuclear Control (AFCN) only became aware of these attacks following the report of the CWB (Centre for Cybersecurity Belgium). The role and responsibility of AFCN is to inspect and control Belgian nuclear installations; it cannot express itself on the apprehension of hackers, this being the role and responsibility of the competent legal bodies. AFCN is in contact with its U.S. counterpart on cyber security aspects. Following this recent attack, AFCN has resumed contact to request information on recent cyberattacks with a view to learning from them. At present, there is no evidence to suggest that Belgian reactors are affected by this problem of the recent cyberattack. Cybersecurity is an area that is constantly evolving and requires ongoing evaluation to take action. AFCN would like to point out that it is working with its subsidiary Bel V, with the support of the CWB on the issue of cybersecurity.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic712x.u90	Mr President, when I ask the Minister of the Interior about cybersecurity, I am not only asking him about his supervisory powers over the AFCN; I am also asking him about cybersecurity as a whole.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic712x.u91	I'm interrupting you because it's under the Prime Minister's jurisdiction.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic712x.u92	I was gonna say it! Even if the CWB is under the control of the Prime Minister, the problem of cybersecurity, beyond the oversight of the CWB, must, and you are responding in part, demonstrate that an overall view of this risk is being taken. I have noted in your response that the AFCN will inquire to see what lessons it can learn from this attack. I think we need to be careful. Throughout the year, I asked you about cybersecurity issues and I can only invite you to remain attentive, while thanking you for the quality of many of your responses this year.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic712x.u93	Mr. Chairman, Minister, I would like you to be able to inform us about the skills of telephone reception services 112 and 101. Indeed, according to some testimonies of citizens, confirmed by the police services, it seems that interlocutors of the 112 re-direct the citizens requesting the intervention of the police services to the plant 101, especially within zone 02. Of course, it is not necessary to recall the extent to which rapid reaction can count in a situation of risk, when calling for aid. Could you please tell me what the status of the staff in power stations 112 and 101 is? What is the number of people who make the call taking within telephone area 02? Are there any differences of competence within these two centres in order to follow up on citizens' requests, and in particular the interventions of the police services? Is the training of this staff identical, depending on whether it is in 112 or 101?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic712x.u94	Mr. Pivin, the operators of centres 112, 100 and call-takers of centres 101 are federal public servants recruited by the Inland FPS. They receive separate training. Operators 112 receive intensive training in the handling of emergency medical aid calls and fire services. During the training of call-takers 101, the focus is on the ability to handle calls for urgent police interventions. The nature of training is fundamentally different, since for operators 112, the speed of processing is of crucial importance. The ability to ask questions quickly and correctly in order to know exactly what happened and to be able to mobilise adequate medical means and/or firefighters is the basis of the training. The faster the services involved can be mobilized, the more successful their intervention can be. At the police, the aspect of rapid intervention is also important, but the focus is also on gathering detailed information about the incident. In the case of criminal offences, the perpetrators must then be able to be prosecuted. The questionnaires that operators and call-takers must use are so fundamentally different that calls must be handled precisely by staff members who have received adequate training and who have been trained: calls for urgent medical aid or emergency help from fire services by operators of centres 112, 100 and calls for urgent police assistance by call-takers of centres 101. Clear agreements exist between the two centres on the handling of calls that end up in the wrong centre, agreements contained in two circulars. Depending on the incident, a call must be transferred hot or cold. "Hot" means that the operator or call taker – since the transfer works in both directions – stays online during the transfer and only hangs up if the other center has taken the call and the collected basic information has been transmitted. When transferring "cold", the operator or call taker does not stay on line. It simply ensures that the telephone connection with the other centre is established. The operator of a 112-100 centre who receives a call for a police intervention is not allowed to ask the citizen to call 101 himself. The opposite is equally true. I have already answered, in the previous questions, about the number of staff in the emergency call centres, but their number is of no importance here. When the citizen calls 112 for police assistance and the operator tells him to contact himself on 101, the citizen can lodge a complaint with the Internal FPS. This complaint can also be made on the Ibz.be/en/contact website. The same is true when the citizen needs urgent medical assistance and the call taker of 101 tells him to call 112 himself. But I add, my ambition is to stop these two numbers and centralize everything on 112. What happens next is another subject. But a pre-call taker must be able to assess whether the call concerns the police or the fire department. Tests are under way. One is also establishing a link between all the plants because when one has a local disaster like a thunderstorm, the power station concerned is overloaded. Victims must be able to reach someone as soon as possible. Someone from another area can as well do the job as long as he knows what happened, because then it's pretty easy to deal with. We try to establish this link between the different plants, without overloading one or the other plant. The goal is to make numbers 100 and 101 disappear because, at the moment, people need to think and wonder what number to call in such circumstances. Everything will be centralized on number 112.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic712x.u95	This is obviously the right direction. It's obvious, especially at the moment. I'm very interested in the information you've given. You're referring to two circulars. Could you tell me which one? When are they dated? Currently, staff are not versatile. It is assigned to one or the other plant and there are huge differences in treatment between the two. That's what I wanted to hear.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic712x.u96	I think that in the future there will always be differentiation, with calls to the police requiring further treatment. Staff could be trained in different situations, but that does not seem useful to me. You have to plan pre-call-takers that will sort it out. Appeals to the police must be directed to persons trained in police matters. The same applies to emergencies. I will also send you information on the two circulars.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic712x.u97	Mr. President, Minister, we were pleased to see a decline in the overall crime rate in our country. However, there is still one area of concern, namely the burglary sector. Operation Rosace, now in its seventh edition, has been on your initiative for several years. Minister, what innovations were made during this seventh edition? Has an evaluation been conducted by your services? How many prevention services did they collaborate on the 2017 edition? Has there been any statistics on the number of people who are sensitized? What follow-up in techno-prevention is planned in the municipalities for the citizens? Finally, what perspectives can be envisaged for the 2018 edition, particularly in the context of collaborations with the PLPs?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic712x.u98	Mr Pivin, the seventh edition of Operation Rosace in the Brussels-Capital Region was carried out from 15 to 19 May 2017. During this edition, a new awareness-raising tool was developed by the working group responsible for developing the methodology of the operation. This is a questionnaire containing 10 questions that the citizen can complete and then obtain a score that tells him whether measures to secure his home seem necessary or not. He is invited, at the end of the document, to contact the prevention adviser "theft" from his municipality or police area. In order to encourage all the services to strengthen the prevention of this phenomenon and with a view to developing an integral and integrated approach, a letter was sent to all the 19 members of Brussels Urbanism to invite them to make available this bilingual questionnaire to the citizens who are required to go to the town planning service of their commune. At the same time, Operation Rosace's flyer was completely re-thought to make it more effective and speaking for the citizens who receive it in their mailbox. Finally, the booklet Habiter en sécurité was reprinted and made available for all Brussels cities and municipalities, as well as for the six police areas with 1,000 French-speaking copies and 200 Dutch-speaking copies for each partner. Of course, an evaluation was conducted by the Inland FPS. The concrete results of the operation that I can communicate to you at this time are as follows. The services involved carried out the verification of 16,195 entrance doors of which 6,257 can be considered to be at risk according to at least one of the three security points checked: the presence of a rosacea, the door space / Chambranle and the cylinder that goes over. With regard to the number of doors at risk, it is important to contextualize this result as it also depends on the interpretation of the three security elements by field officers. It is not always obvious, for example, whether a rosace is a safety rosace or whether the cylinder exceeds two millimetres or not. It is therefore necessary to take this result with caution, even though it clearly constitutes a rather inquisitive information in the fight against the phenomenon of burglary. From year to year, the proportion of doors at risk remains relatively stable: around 40%. In addition, 21,105 flyers were distributed and 59 techno-prevention visits were planned by the flight prevention counsellors in response to requests made to them by citizens who were sensitized during the operation. In general, all 19 Brussels prevention services, as well as the six police zones, are involved in this operation, although sometimes either service is unable to carry out the operation as a result of unavailability of personnel. In general, the following personnel were involved in this year's operation: 92 peacekeepers, 19 theft prevention advisers and 14 police officers. As regards the outlook for next year, the working group on the methodology of the operation will meet in September to identify new avenues for improvement, particularly in terms of communication and citizen awareness. This work will be carried out until April 2018, before restarting the operation in May.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic712x.u99	Thank you, Minister, for your full answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic712x.u100	Mr. Chair, Minister, many measures have been taken by the government for two and a half years now. Among these, the creation of the Federal Police Unit which controls Internet content in matters of serious crime and, of course, terrorist risk and radicalism (BE-lRU), like its Europol component. The stakes of this risk of indoctrination via the internet and social networks are known to all. Control work through the Internet Referral Unit is essential. My question is about the possible accompaniment that could be made in the fight against radicalism. I am thinking here of counter-speech. Minister, what is the planned reinforcement in 2017 within BE-IRU? Are you considering new initiatives on social networks and on the Internet involving extensive counter-speech material in the face of indoctrination and acts that apologies for jihadism and radicalism? I am thinking of an initiative in the United States called – I believe – Abdullah-X.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic712x.u101	Mr President, Mr Pivin, as regards staff, a police commissioner joined the DJSOC/BE-IRU service. He was appointed Head of Section IRU. Two police inspectors were recruited through mobility 2017/1. They'll be joining the service soon. Eleven posts remain to be filled for the service. Recruitment must be carried out through mobility. The vacant posts are broken down into two separate budgets, with six members to be assigned to IRU work and budgeted under the interdepartmental provision, and five members to be assigned to Internet research and included in the regular budget. Initiatives are being taken by both my administration and the OCAM. For strategic and security reasons, however, I cannot reveal them here. Indeed, we have seen good and bad examples outside when counter-speech is being developed. If there is a blocking of the public sector or authority, this leads to effects contrary to those expected. Belgium receives subsidies from Europe to collaborate with the United Kingdom (Team S4). This allows Member States, regions and cities in Europe to develop cost-narrative strategies, without any means whatsoever. This project is led by Belgium, in collaboration with the United Kingdom. We are working in this direction, but we are quite discreet.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic712x.u102	Minister, thank you and I will respect this policy of discretion.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic712x.u103	Minister, a cooperation agreement was recently signed between the Departments of Finance and Defence to strengthen large-scale customs controls in public spaces through the use of military drones. Could you tell me, then, how many drones of the same type have been acquired by the federal police and what tasks are assigned to them? In the context of large-scale controls against serious crime, such as drugs and weapons, what are the planned operational cooperation between the customs services of your colleague in Finance and the police services? Precisely as part of this innovative support from Defence to customs officers, can you tell me whether similar collaborations already exist or are envisaged with the federal police services?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic712x.u104	Mr Pivin, the Department of Finance can use the services of the Federal Police in the fight against organised crime. The federal police have specialized means, including air support, "drug" dogs, etc., on which customs can rely in the context of large-scale controls against serious crime. Of course, the capacity is not unlimited and it is important to continually assess requests for support for this type of operation in order to achieve maximum effectiveness. This assessment is made by the coordinating director (DirCo) of the Federal Police of the district where the operation will take place. The federal police have several kinds of drones. These machines are all multicopter type. The air support is now flying with three drones equipped with a camera. Specialized units also have several units. The road police have a drone made available by the IBSR to draw up reports of serious accidents on motorways. Recently, the Governor of Limburg Province also took the initiative to create a drone section within the Federal Police of Limburg to support the local actions of the integrated police and the security services. The missions are multiple: photogrammetry for findings in the context of accidents or criminal acts, the search for missing persons, the presence at major events, etc. In the past, the federal police have already given support to customs actions. This kind of collaboration will continue in the future. In this context, the Director General of Customs in Mons contacted the air support of the federal police to examine the possibilities between these two services.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic712x.u105	Minister, thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic712x.u106	Mr Minister, like some of your European counterparts, you have been at the forefront and have shown a political determination that has led to the establishment of the NRP, which had been dragging on before. We must now remain attentive to its operation and implementation by the Member States. The question of its effectiveness, scope of action and screening within the various communication networks remains. Therefore, Minister, my questions are as follows. What progress has been made in this area? More specifically, what is the timetable for the working group that has been set up between Belgium, France, the Netherlands and Great Britain? Who will represent our country? Are its objectives limited to the control of train passengers, maritime transport and regional and local airports?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic712x.u107	Mr Pivin, at an informal meeting of the European Council of Ministers of Justice and Home Affairs in Malta last January, my French, Dutch and British counterparts joined my initiative to create a task force dedicated to defining a common approach to the use of PNR data for international high-speed rail transport. This task force is chaired by Belgium and currently brings together experts from the four Member States concerned. In our country, those who have been designated come from the Internal FPS and also involve the Mobility & Transport FPS in their work. The purpose of the Task Force is to define a common approach that takes into account the needs of public security, the fight against terrorism and serious crime and the business processes of operators. Moreover, it bases its work on intensive consultation with the high-speed rail transport sector and the national operators concerned. At its last meeting last month, the Commission formally entrusted a study office with the task of preparing the impact assessment, the objectives of which were defined by the Commission, in consultation with the operators concerned. The INNOS (Innovation Center for Security) will carry out this impact assessment in collaboration with Thalys, Eurostar and Eurotunnel and with the contribution of the national SNCB, SNCF and NS (Nederlandse Spoorwegen) operators, who have also shown their willingness to participate. He will present the results of his research to the Task Force by the end of 2017 and will present his interim conclusions twice, in September and November. The aim of the four Member States participating in the Task Force is to adopt, on this solid basis, national legislation consistent with each other, which will also enable operators to understand their new obligations in a clear and uniform manner. You mention maritime transport in your question. As far as this means of transport is concerned, our experts are currently in a preliminary phase of getting to know the sector, its operation and its safety procedures. You also mention national airports. These are covered by the Royal Decree currently being finalized on air transport for their intra- and extra-EU international routes. The international low cost buses represent a fourth mode of transport. On this subject, we conducted an action in Antwerp on a Saturday afternoon, during which nine of these buses were checked. The finding was incredible. There were 240 people on those buses. One of the bus drivers was drugged. Six mails contained drugs. There were three without papers. Three more people were reported in our databases. There were two or three Europol cases. Unbelievable! I have reported this to my European colleagues. We want to expand these three types of transport by adding low cost buses and we want to react. The problem will not be solved, but we are trying to close as many doors as possible. The result of this action was truly amazing. Therefore, we continued this type of action.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic712x.u108	Thank you, Minister. This is, in fact, an illustration that is not necessarily thought of when talking about PNR. It was true that we had to think about it!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic712x.u109	Mr President, for more than two years now, all public facilities and spaces must be secured in a different way in order to be adapted to new threats. In the newspaper Le Spécialiste, I read about a study carried out at the end of 2016 among Belgian medical specialists. It highlighted a question about the safety and security of hospitals. It appears that almost eight out of ten French-speaking specialists and almost seven out of ten Dutch-speaking specialists believe that hospitals need to be better secure. Minister, what information could be provided to hospital management by the Internal FPS on the new national emergency plan, but also on possible new measures taken to further secure the perimeters of hospitals in our country? Have your services, over the past two years, met with medical personnel working in hospital in connection with terrorist threats? If so, have decision-making or adjustment processes been put in place? Finally, what collaboration do your services maintain with the services of the Public Health FPS to ensure that the necessary measures are in place and that communication with the target audiences is good?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic712x.u110	Mr. Pivin, the issue of securing hospitals at the level of the police services falls within the competence of local police and the Standing Committee on Local Police (CPPL) does not have a comprehensive view of the various partnerships between local police and hospitals in the country. However, among the existing initiatives are the organization of targeted patrols in relation to certain sensitive medical centres or offices, preventive advice provided by neighbourhood officers in the area of securing entrances to buildings, etc. I have no more detailed data on what is happening at the local level. In this case, the competence of the local police is mentioned.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic712x.u111	Minister, I did not know that. I thank you for that answer, which I can nevertheless exploit.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic712x.u112	Minister, I am not going to repeat here the genesis of police reform, which was aimed at the implementation of community policing services. Since then, areas have been created, the stakes have evolved but there is a question of availability, and therefore of time for intervention, which remains important. This is all the more true when we see that managers are not complete in certain police areas, that local police stations are closed after a certain hour and that at that time, the intervention services have to take care of all requests at night. Minister, has an evaluation of this operation been completed since 2015 and have any questions on this have been addressed by the CPPL?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic712x.u113	Mr Pivin, the CPPL does not have an overall assessment of this practice. However, the closure of some antennas in a local area is possible in light of the circular of 9 October 2001 (PLP10). In this connection, I would like to point out that in each police area, and more specifically in each police station, the area organizes a reception point for a significant number of hours per week. The priority tasks carried out at the reception point are usually telephone reception, physical reception of the visitor, information and referral of the population to the appropriate authorities, issuance of certificates or administrative documents of a police nature, collection of reports and complaints and radio communication with police officers in the field. In addition, the reception should not be carried out exclusively by a member of the operational framework. Some tasks can be performed by CALOG staff. Although the availability of a police service must be guaranteed at all times in each area, 24 hours a day throughout the year, it is not conceivable, or even appropriate, to provide for the permanent physical presence of a police officer at the point of reception of certain areas. A minimum standard of 12 hours per day at the central reception point will prevail. However, care must be taken to ensure that the citizen within the area receives an immediate response when he or she wishes to call on the local police. During times when a police office or police station does not have staff, all telephone calls must be automatically transferred to a police station that is staffed inside or outside the area. It goes without saying that this latter hypothesis is only possible if an agreement on this matter has been reached with the area in question. Similarly, persons who physically report to any police station after its closure must have the opportunity to contact a police officer through technical infrastructure. This system can be used in a zonal or supra-local way, provided that the necessary agreements exist. It is therefore possible that a police zone could be organized in the manner mentioned.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic712x.u114	Yes, that is what we have seen. Especially since at certain hours of the night, people do not spontaneously go to the police stations and prefer that the police come to their homes when there is a problem. Statistically, we find it unnecessary – and that is what you say in your answer – to keep all points open at all times. I did not know that there was no evaluation done on this subject. This may still be a topic that the CPPL could look at.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic712x.u115	Mr President, this is a topical issue, because an article was published today in a weekly on this subject. I'm glad I can put it to the minister. We know that the Fire and Emergency Medical Service (SIAMU) in the Brussels Region has a separate status. We also know that a dispute is still pending between the Brussels Region and the Federal State before the courts, which concerns the interventions of the Brussels SIAMU outside the nineteen communes on behalf of the other relief zones. In the context of this dispute, the claims which have been formulated have not been met to the advantage of the Brussels Region by the courts of first instance. The federal government has not been able to commit itself to the additional costs in the Brussels Region related to the implementation of the reform of the relief zones. If the 2007 law specifies that the expenditure related to this reform is borne by the federal authority, it is considered that the Brussels-based SIAMU already operates in the area, since before the reform of the relief services. But the subject remains sensitive in view of the profound changes related to the implementation of the areas of the country. When I read, today, an article entitled "Civil protection: the despised Brusselsers", I am concerned about this. The examples taken by the Secretary of State do not seem to me to be appropriate or appropriate. Minister, as a first step, my intention was to ask you what was the status of the dispute between the Region and the federal state. In light of the publication I have read today, I would like to ask you a second question. Given the current situation, can you remind us of the challenges of civil protection reform and the distribution of missions between the SIAMU and civil protection? This would reassure the Brusselsers of the efficiency of the SIAMU, its personnel and equipment adapted for emergency response in the event of chemical, biological, radiological, nuclear or explosive (CBRNE) hazards.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic712x.u116	Mr Pivin, the dispute between the Brussels-Capital Region and the Federal State concerns several financial aspects, including the Region's request for the financing of the operations carried out by the SIAMU outside the territory of the 19 municipalities of the Brussels-Capital Region. The Region also requests the payment of federal staffing amounts that it considers should be returned to the UASIS, as well as for the funding of response equipment for the UASIS. By a judgment of 16 March 2016, the French-speaking court of first instance in Brussels dismissed all its applications. The Court appealed the judgement and the case is now before the Brussels Court of Appeal. To answer your additional questions, it is not for the Federal Minister of the Interior to speak about the efficiency of the SIAMU, which is a service under the authority of the Brussels-Capital Region. The distribution of missions between fire services - emergency zones and SIAMU - and civil protection dates from the Royal Decree of 10 June 2014, before the start of this government. For three years, fire departments have been familiar with their missions and have organized and adapted themselves. The main adaptation of civil protection reform is that it will no longer be involved in front-line missions in relief areas. We're going to apply this royal decree in time. This has no impact on the SIAMU. Civil protection did not operate in Brussels except for post-accident road clean-up missions which the firefighters had become accustomed to delegating to it. It will still be necessary to consider whether this mission is a relief mission or whether it falls under the responsibility of road managers. The reorganisation of the units and their regrouping in Crisnée and Brasschaat will of course have an effect on the arrival time of the specialized teams in the Brussels-Capital Region, but the SIAMU is, in my opinion, in a position to manage the first interventions, including in the chemical field. It's been part of his missions for a long time. It is equipped and trained for this according to the risk analyses that are carried out. Next week, we will hold a meeting with the SIAMU and the senior official to see how the CBRN bombing action plan will apply in Brussels and to identify possible problems. Many people ask themselves questions but they forget that where there were civil defence barracks, it was fairly easy to delegate to the latter tasks that belonged to the firefighters. For the areas, it was interesting as for civil protection elsewhere, because sometimes its workload was not so huge. But that's not fair. The emergency zones must now apply this royal decree. Once they are capable – because it depends on skills and equipment – at that time, we will stop civil protection as the front line. We're not gonna stop them at once and then let them form. No. We don't play with security! We will move towards an application of this royal decree of June 2014.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic712x.u117	In fact, everyone comes back to their core business. That's kind of it.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic712x.u118	Yes, that's it.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic712x.u119	Thank you. And like my colleague Jean-Marc Nollet, I thank you for all your answers and your availability in committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic712x.u120	Thank you very much, Mr Pivin. I have four further questions from Mrs Gabriel's Nos. 19882, 19883, 19884 and 19885, converted into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Vanvelthoven's 19837 is withdrawn in accordance with Rule 127 (10) of the Rules of Procedure. After all, Mr Vanvelthoven did not show up, he did not apologize, nor did he ask for the question to be converted into a written question. That concludes the agenda and closes the session.
