ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-07-54-commissie-ic761x.u1	Colleagues, the minister has arrived. He had been apologized for his delay. We will begin our work, but I give the floor to Mr Devin.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-07-54-commissie-ic761x.u2	Madam President, I can understand that the minister is coming late. I even see him standing low on his flickering seat. I will give him time to regain the necessary seat for his function. I ask that the questions that I could not have asked today be turned into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-07-54-commissie-ic761x.u3	All right, Mr. Devin. Question No 19466 by Mrs Dumery is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-07-54-commissie-ic761x.u4	Madam Chair, Minister, I regularly intervene in the Infrastructure and Interior Committees on safety and cleanliness in and around Tournai Station. My question relates to the possibility for SNCB's screening and security officers to find out which offences may be subject to administrative sanctions. Article 21 of the Act on communal administrative sanctions provides that offences which may only be subject to administrative sanctions may also be found by agents of public transport companies belonging to one of the categories determined by the King, within the scope of their powers. Furthermore, I note that this specific royal decree is not published. Minister, when will this royal decree be published? Will it allow SNCB screening and security officers to identify administrative violations?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-07-54-commissie-ic761x.u5	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the law on municipal administrative sanctions to which you refer does not depend on my department, but on that of my colleague from the interior. I will therefore allow you to question the latter on this matter, if you so wish. As far as I am concerned, I should just like to point out that the security officers belonging to Securail are competent to see the dirt in the stations, in accordance with the legislation on the railway police. These are criminal offences punishable by the police courts. However, the bill that I will be tabling shortly in Parliament will allow the courts to discharge these facts by allowing SNCB itself to impose an administrative fine. This should allow for faster reactivity and a more effective fight against certain abuses such as those that had motivated the development of the SAC law which is applicable in the municipalities.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-07-54-commissie-ic761x.u6	Madam Chair, Minister, thank you for your answer. I do believe that speed is an important factor in this kind of situation. Having said that, I would like to inform you that, initially, I had addressed my question to Mr Jambon, but that Parliament's services have redirected me to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-07-54-commissie-ic761x.u7	Ladies and gentlemen, I propose that the questions that cannot be asked today should be turned into written questions or that they should be asked tomorrow in the discussion on the policy note.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-07-54-commissie-ic761x.u8	Minister, in its 2016 Annual Report, the rail passenger mediation service devotes a chapter to the issues raised with regard to the online ticket, including the fact that these tickets are neither refundable nor tradable according to SNCB's terms and conditions of carriage. The mediation service points out the contradiction: "The SNCB (...) encourages its customers to buy their tickets online, but on the other hand, in case of cancellation, it punishes these travellers by refusing them any refund." In the same spirit, the windows disappear. As a result, more and more people are forced to use online applications that do not offer a very user-friendly environment. The Ombudsman's report highlights the following points: - the discounts are not sufficiently visible on the site, e.g. free for children under 12 years of age; - the date of travel changes during the purchase process; - inept purchases are possible, e.g. the purchase of a ticket while the last train has already left; - modification of the method of delivery of the ticket is impossible; - reimbursement in the event of sickness is made only under certificate with unauthorized exit; - administrative costs are borne by travellers, etc. Therefore, Minister, let me ask you a few questions. Why can't a traveller get a refund or change an online ticket? Why can't a traveller change the mode of delivery of an online ticket between purchase and use? Why not set up a control system to recognise cancelled banknotes? Why are administrative costs paid to travellers who are clearly in their right to receive a refund? Finally, why are travellers simply not entitled to a user-friendly and efficient online tool? Thank you in advance for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-07-54-commissie-ic761x.u9	Dear colleague, the SNCB website has been offering online ticket sales in PDF format since 2004. Currently, the website is no longer adapted to the needs of customers, particularly with regard to consultation from a smartphone or tablet in responsive design mode. As a result, the SNCB started a project at the end of 2016 to modernize and completely overhaul the site, in partnership and in co-creation mode with customers and travellers' associations. The aim is to provide a user-friendly and efficient tool for information, service and purchase of online transport tickets. SNCB informs me that the roll out of this new site will be progressive. In the current state of affairs, it is not technically possible to cancel, in sales systems, a ticket purchased online. SNCB states that it is currently investigating the best techniques for securing tickets purchased online and controlling the uniqueness of these tickets. These are two prerequisites for repayment or exchange, while avoiding fraud, which is potentially massive and organised. All this requires the modernization of the sales system; it is in progress. It is also not possible to change the mode of provision of an online ticket. The customer can, however, present his PDF ticket on various media: paper, smartphone, tablet or laptop. Finally, SNCB recalls that, since 1 February 2017, it has adapted its terms of carriage and no longer accounts for administrative costs on the reimbursement of its tickets.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-07-54-commissie-ic761x.u10	Minister, I note that we will have to wait until the new site is on-line to see if the situation is improving for travellers. I hope that will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-07-54-commissie-ic761x.u11	Minister, in its 2016 Annual Report, the rail passenger mediation service advocates for SNCB to contract third party liability insurance. This would allow SNCB to compensate, beyond the reimbursement of the train ticket, passengers who miss their aircraft because of stationary trains. According to SNCB, it is up to the traveller to cover himself against this kind of damage. Nevertheless, the Ombudsman's argument that insurance does not cover damage caused by third parties seems relevant. Since SNCB is responsible for the damage, it is the only SNCB to be able to ascertain against what it is causing itself. So, Minister, what do you think of this proposal made by the mediation service? Do you think that progress can be made in this area? If so, under what conditions and within what time frame?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-07-54-commissie-ic761x.u12	Mrs Grovonius, SNCB's mission is to transport passengers from a departure station to a destination station. SNCB informs me that, therefore, it cannot be held responsible for the indirect and unpredictable consequences of train delay. Another determining factor is the expected time between arrival at the airport by train and the closure of the aircraft's boarding doors.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-07-54-commissie-ic761x.u13	Minister, I do not think that answers the simple question at all. If, because of a train at a stop, the passengers miss their plane – which obviously happens because it is the mediation service that raises it – they have no recourse. Their own insurance tells them that it cannot cover them because the damage is caused by a third party and in your answer, at no time do I mean that SNCB is in any way making sure that it can compensate these travellers. So we find ourselves in a situation where, unfortunately, the user is injured. However, I agree with SNCB's mission is to drive it from point A to point B so that it can take its plane. On the other hand, Minister, I do not mean, on your part, a willingness to find a solution. I regret this and fear that these remarks will be made again in the report next year.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-07-54-commissie-ic761x.u14	Minister, in his 2016 Annual Report, the rail passenger mediation service is clearly inconsistent. Travellers would have been denied compensation for delays on the grounds that the work on the line had been advertised a week earlier. While this analysis may seem understandable if the ticket is purchased during the week in question, it appears far less well-founded when the tickets are purchased in advance. Minister, how do we explain that SNCB chooses to conceal the fact that the advertisement of the work is after the date of purchase of the ticket? In these circumstances, how can one claim that the traveller was aware of the work on the line at the time of purchase? What are SNCB's explanations? Do you intend to act so that the SNCB finally respects both its own transport conditions and European regulations?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-07-54-commissie-ic761x.u15	Dear colleague, SNCB explains that European legislation allows railway undertakings to adapt the default service schedule several times a year. In the specific case of SNCB, the so-called seasonal schedule of service is adjusted mid-December and four other adjustments during the year. When such scheduling adjustments occur between the conclusion of the contract and the journey carried out, the customers shall be informed prior to the journey and as soon as possible, in particular through the Route Planner which is available on the SNCB website, of advertisements posted at the stations concerned by the change of timetable or even through the media. In this case, there is no question of delay within the meaning of European legislation. SNCB's attention was drawn to the fact that it had to take account as a matter of priority the difficulties faced by passengers in changing the conditions of their journey and that such changes in timetables should only be made to ensure the proper functioning of rail traffic and only that one.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-07-54-commissie-ic761x.u16	Minister, I understand that SNCB's attention has been drawn to this problem – and that is very good. Nevertheless, what the report of the mediation service indicates seems to me to be a lot of common sense. I must admit that it seems incomprehensible to me that travellers who have bought their ticket sufficiently in advance may be criticized for not being informed of any delays that have occurred at a later date and, in addition, for refusing them the compensation provided for in the regulations. These issues are likely to be reflected in the next report. So we will probably have to discuss it again, when simple common sense would make it possible to correct these situations which are not legion. In this way, the user could benefit from an opinion that would encourage everyone to take the train more, despite unpredictable delays.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-07-54-commissie-ic761x.u17	Madam President, Minister, according to our information, railway workers, supported by the ASBL Mobility and Intermodal Public Service Transport, brought before the Constitutional Court an action for annulment of certain articles of the Act of 20 December 2016 laying down various provisions in social matters. The law allows HR Rail, the management structure of the staff of the railway undertaking SNCB and the infrastructure manager lnfrabel, to tighten the conditions for the recognition of accidents at work, but only for statutory agents. On the basis of the clearance, HR Rail has added a new condition that requires the employee who is the victim of an accident at the workplace to prove that the accident is not related to his or her body, e.g. through physical failure. Minister, can you confirm this information? Do you not see here the clear will to mark the difference between contractual and statutory staff, for which the measure is unfavourable? Can you assure us that the articles referred to in the complaint respect the principle of equality guaranteed by article 23 of the Constitution?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-07-54-commissie-ic761x.u18	Dear colleague, HR Rail has given me the following information. An appeal was filed with the Constitutional Court under role number 6701 (FR). The Belgian railways consider the applicant's interpretation of the contested provisions to be in all respects incorrect. According to HR Rail, the travaux préparatoires of the Act of 25 December 2016 on various provisions in the social field bear witness to this. Members of the statutory staff of the Belgian railways have long benefited from specific regulations on accidents at work and related matters, contained in the Staff Regulations and in the GDPRs, Paper 572, whereas contractual staff are subject to the Act of 10 April 1971 on accidents at work. The purpose of the distinction between statutory and contractual staff members of HR Rail is to ensure that HR Rail personnel, both contractual and statutory, fall, in the case of occupational accidents, under the regime established by their own law and/or under it. These laws are unique to them and take into account the nature of their legal position and the various laws and regulations that form part of them. The contested provisions of the Law of 25 December 2016, referred to in the application, are not unfavourable, either for the statutory staff or for the contractual staff of the Belgian railways. They merely confirm the existing situation. HR Rail continues its argument by denying the claim that the conditions for the recognition of an accident at work for statutory staff have recently been tightened. In the end, it will be up to the Constitutional Court to decide.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-07-54-commissie-ic761x.u19	So it's a case to follow.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-07-54-commissie-ic761x.u20	Minister, the press has echoed the comments of local officials in Manage who are concerned about the reduction in the number of trains between the stations of Manage and Braine-le-Comte. You cannot ignore that reducing the number of trains on a line is the first step towards desertification of the line. Any reduction in supply leads sooner or later to a reduction in attendance and a concentration on so-called captive audiences, i.e. having no choice but to comply with the reductions generated. The removal of a train results not only in the loss of passengers on this train, but also in the loss of passengers who need time flexibility in the event of unforeseen circumstances, so many passengers who will then prefer to take a car, a more expensive solution, an accident, a pollutant and an embarrassment of traffic. Minister, what will be the evolution of the frequency of trains on the line between Manage and Braine-le-Comte? How is this development justified? What impact will this change have on the environment and on road traffic? Thank you already for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-07-54-commissie-ic761x.u21	Dear colleague, there is currently a weekly L relationship between Manage and Braine-le-Comte. This relationship shows low attendance in off-peak hours and in the evening. The 2017-2020 Transport Plan provides for the creation of a relationship between Braine-le-Comte and La Louvière-Sud. The L relationship between Braine-le-Comte and Manage, for its part, will no longer circulate from December 2017. Three P trains will be scheduled in the morning between Manage and Braine-le-Comte and three P trains will be planned in the other direction in the evening, when demand is high on the part of commuters and students to Brussels and Braine-le-Comte. SNCB states that it has chosen to redirect its resources where demand is highest, by reorganising its L. L'offre de liaison entre La Louvière-Sud and Brussels will be doubled all day, once per hour with a direct relationship and once per hour with a connection in Braine-le-Comte. Braine-le-Comte will benefit from a second relationship towards La Louvière-Sud, where connections will be planned with ICs of the Walloon dorsal, both towards Mons and towards Charleroi and Namur. Manage will maintain its relationship L Charleroi-Sud - La Louvière-Sud, Manage, Luttre, a relationship that will offer connections every hour to Brussels, both in Luttre and La Louvière-Centre. The connection to La Louvière-Centre will also make it possible to connect Braine-le-Comte every hour. The overall impact will be positive as resources will be allocated where demand is greatest and all travel opportunities will be maintained at the start of Manage, especially in peak hours. I recall that these amendments to the offer were presented at the SNCB roadshow in the province of Hainaut on March 31, 2017.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-07-54-commissie-ic761x.u22	Minister, thank you for your answer, pointing out that, in order to strengthen one line, services are being reduced on another line. This was done according to the use of one line at the expense of the other. I will not fail to relay your words to whom by law.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-07-54-commissie-ic761x.u23	Minister, on 15 September, a train from Hasselt arrived at a pole in the station of Antwerp, where three staff were slightly injured. Fortunately, no passengers were injured. My main concern is the circumstances of that accident. Do you already know the exact cause of this? Was the auxiliary system TBL1+ or the GSM safety system present on the dead track, as the upper tracks are mentioned in the box jargon? If so, how come that train didn't stop before it crashed? Or are the tracks not equipped with this and is the so-called coverage rate of 99.9 % not applicable? Was the train set itself equipped with ETCS or TBL1+?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-07-54-commissie-ic761x.u24	On Friday 15 September 2017 at 22.18 hours passenger train E2642 Hasselt-Antwerp-Central will enter the station of Antwerp-Central as the final destination of the train. The train arrives with three minutes delay. The E2642 train left Hasselt at 8:38 p.m. The train will be received in Antwerp-Central on track 502, platform 2. The train E2642 hits the block and comes to a standstill against the overhead poles at the end of the platform. As a result of the collision, the first wagon of aircraft 357 derails. There were two slightly injured travelers who didn't want to be cared for. The train driver and the train attendant were injured. The investigation into the cause of the accident is still ongoing. Therefore, it is not possible at present to rule out the exact cause of the accident. I do not wish to anticipate the conclusions of the investigation, but I have already been informed of the following. The impact block is not part of the hazardous points to be protected by the TBL1 system, given the low approach speed of 20 km/h, normally expected at such locations. The last signal to drive to the dead track 502 is equipped with an ETCS and TBL1 beacon. Because the signal allowed the passage to the dead track, the beacon did not intervene to stop the movement. The train set is equipped with TBL1.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-07-54-commissie-ic761x.u25	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. I find it strange that even though the signals are equipped with TBL1+ and ECTS, no stop signal has been given. That will probably be further investigated.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-07-54-commissie-ic761x.u26	Minister, my question dates from the end of September. Those who stayed near a railroad track have seen the weed train of Infrabel passing again. As every year, the railway system operator used this special train to keep the Belgian railways weed-free. Unfortunately, hundreds of thousands of litres of water-diluted pesticides and herbicides are injected into the air each time. I therefore proposed the creation of a special working group to draw up a plan of action for a sustainable and financially feasible method of weed control. That resolution was adopted unanimously in July 2016. At the committee meeting of 3 May 2017, I asked you about the evolution of this dossier. I am sorry to hear that no working group has yet been set up. Mr. Secretary, I have the following follow-up questions. In the meantime, has a working group been set up? If so, has the working party already met? Which actors are represented? If that group has not yet come together, will you urge Infrabel to speed up the dossier more than a year after the adoption of the resolution in this House?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-07-54-commissie-ic761x.u27	Minister, I would like to endorse Mr Raskin's question. Although the weed train has nine smart cameras, it still uses 625 000 litres per year to keep the rail network weed-free, at a total cost of 1.3 million euros. Like Mr Raskin, I would like to ask about the state of play of this working group.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-07-54-commissie-ic761x.u28	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the ban on the use of arthropods is, of course, also applicable to the spray train. However, Infrabel has obtained a derogation from this ban for reasons relating to operational safety. This does not prevent a technical working group from working within Infrabel with a view to developing an effective alternative to the use of pesticides. Alternatives for the use of pesticides on railway sites and on track installations are sought in this technical working group. There is also a study of the cost of these alternatives. In addition to the existence of this technical working group within Infrabel, I also instructed the FPS Mobility and Transport to set up a working group to coordinate cooperation with various interested bodies. The first contacts soon showed that the composition of this working group could be limited to Infrabel and the three Regions, with the FPS Mobility and Transport as coordinator. A first meeting of this working group took place on 11 September 2017 and a second on 12 October 2017. Following consultations are scheduled for 12 December 2017, in order to respond to the questions raised by the resolution by spring 2018. The Herbie - Guidelines, State of Art and Integrated Assessment of Weed Control and Management for Railways project includes a benchmark study of these techniques used to maintain the railway domain. The report is expected in spring 2018. Infrabel participates in this and follows up this study. Infrabel is not aware of the fact that the weed train is owned by Monsanto. The weed train, hired by Infrabel for the Belgian rail network, is operated by the company Weedfree, in accordance with the law on public procurement. Thanks to the camera technology with which this train is equipped, pesticides are only scattered in certain places and thus the use of pesticides on the rail domain can be limited.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-07-54-commissie-ic761x.u29	Mr Minister, you reiterate that Infrabel has obtained a derogation to use these pesticides and herbicides. That's obvious. Nor is it in question that we keep the rail network in a decent way weed-free in order to guarantee safety. That has to be absolutely clear, but you also confirm in your reply: "I agree that in 2017 we may have the ambition to take a step towards more sustainable weed management." The technical working group has since started, that is good. If I have understood you correctly, you have also taken the initiative to set up a working group in the FPS Mobility in parallel. I'm not going to comment on the composition. I am not a specialist and I do not want to mortgage what the working group is doing, but the working group remains fairly limited. However, he is at work, has already come together and will meet again in December of this year. The working group will have to come up with a solution in spring 2018. I'm glad the train's on the right track. In the spring of 2018, we will discuss this again.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-07-54-commissie-ic761x.u30	Minister, we must indeed await the conclusions of the working party. However, it is important that the resolution is implemented so that fewer pesticides are used on our network.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-07-54-commissie-ic761x.u31	Mr.Minister, in early 2016, I was asking Ms.Galant about the issue of harassment and sexual assault in transportation. In my question, I referred in particular to the campaign "Stop, that's enough", which had been launched in France. In her response, the minister told me that no specific campaign was planned at that time. However, she added that, according to contacts with the Department of the Interior, it was not precluded that a campaign should be organised as soon as possible, from the point of view of preventing acts of violence. Minister, let me also ask you about this. Would a campaign similar to "Stop, that's enough" be on the agenda in our country? If this is not the case, do you not think that it would be wise to schedule a campaign to educate travellers about harassment? Finally, would not such a campaign, to be effective, be meant to be national, involving all public transport? In this case, would cooperation with your counterparts in the federated entities not be appropriate?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-07-54-commissie-ic761x.u32	Mrs Thoron, I can only repeat what my predecessor replied to you at the February 2016 meeting of the Infrastructure Committee: there are no specific campaigns planned by SNCB. However, if that were to be the case, it would seem appropriate not to be confined to this undertaking or, more generally, to public transport. With this in mind, I invite you to address your question to my colleague from the Interior. As explained in my reply of 25 January 2017 to Mr Devin's oral question No. 16611, SNCB does not have figures on the number of complaints of sexual assaults committed on its trains.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-07-54-commissie-ic761x.u33	Minister, thank you for your answer. As you suggest, I will not fail to question Minister Jan Jambon on this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-07-54-commissie-ic761x.u34	Madam President, Minister, an article published in the press on 13 September this year reports that at a press conference in Brussels, officials of the Belgian Institute for Road Safety (IBSR) announced that the IBSR, created in 1986, will now be called the Vias Institute. What are the reasons for this change? Will new skills be assigned to Vias Institute? If so, which ones? Are jobs lost as a result of this decision? How many people do they work for this organization to date?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-07-54-commissie-ic761x.u35	Dear colleague, the special law of 6 January 2014 on the sixth reform of the State has led to the regionalisation of some of the tasks previously assigned to the IBSR. Taking these changes into account, a process of adapting the legal form of the Institute has been carried out and completed. The IBSR has thus moved from the status of ASBL to that of a commercial company for social purposes. Like any company and with the concern to maintain employment, the IBSR has sought other ways to express its know-how. It was decided to establish the spectrum of studies on mobility and safety in general, i.e. beyond road safety, in a broader sense. The name change marks the end of a process that will allow the Vias Institute to continue to exist as an independent organisation not only focused on road safety, but also in areas of activity related to mobility and safety in general. Vias' goal is to be a centre of expertise that studies human behaviour in these areas as well. There are 123 employees today. I am convinced that the expansion of activities will enable many employees to develop their own expertise. In the long term, the new structure will even offer new employment opportunities.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-07-54-commissie-ic761x.u36	Minister, you've talked about regionalized missions. What are they?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-07-54-commissie-ic761x.u37	All matters relating to awareness-raising are now a competence of the Regions. There were therefore two solutions for the IBSR: to focus on its residual tasks, which would have led to a decrease in the volume of employment, or to develop its expertise in mobility and security. It is this path that has been chosen. As the IBSR Road Safety Awareness Mission has been modified, its framework and range of interventions have been expanded. It therefore seemed appropriate for the Board of Directors to change its name at the same time. Previously, the IBSR was an ASBL. Since the company will also provide services on behalf of external bodies, a comparison of its different organizational and moral forms has been made. The choice finally focused on the form of a commercial society for social purposes, following the recommendations of a lawyer consulted by the Vias Institute.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-07-54-commissie-ic761x.u38	Minister, thank you for your full answer. The issue of employment was crucial. New activities had to be found so as not to risk losing jobs. Following this change in legal formula, Vias Institute will probably take steps to make itself known to the Regions and municipalities. By adding studies and know-how in the field of safety and mobility to road safety, the Institute will become an operator of interest to the public authorities. I imagine that campaigns will be carried out, and that information will be communicated to the public authorities.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-07-54-commissie-ic761x.u39	Minister, in an article published on October 4, 2017 on dhnet.be, Securail agents denounced the ineffectiveness of the security portals, about which so much has been communicated. Indeed, several Securail agents, who asked to testify under cover of anonymity, openly question the effectiveness of the security gates installed in the country's major stations (Brussels-Midi, Antwerp-Central and Liège-Guillemins). The first criticism concerns the very nature of the controls. These can only be carried out in the presence of police officers, usually from the railway police. But it is no secret to anyone that this one is understaffed. Let me quote the figures for Brussels. As the same newspaper revealed a few weeks ago, in the Brussels Region, at least 50% of patrols can no longer be carried out at Brussels stations due to a lack of sufficient staff. Having portals is one thing, but if the staff that goes with it does not follow, the goal is not achieved. In addition to the lack of staff, SNCB officers also point to the random side of controls, i.e. the working methodology. We remember Mr. Jambon saying, "We're going to do checks from time to time." According to the Securail agents, passengers carrying prohibited or dangerous items pass between the meshes of the net. In short, they consider this to be a real circus that is useless, that does not protect travellers in any way and that costs a lot. That's what they think, even though they've been a long way off. On the SNCB side, it is recalled that it has always been a question of conducting the checks randomly and not permanently: "This is quite normal and so the federal authorities decided.... Anyone can be controlled at any time (...). This is one of the measures taken by the federal government in the fight against terrorism." It should be recalled that an envelope of 17 million euros has been released for the purchase of the equipment and the commitment of the personnel necessary to carry out the said checks. According to your ministry's figures, nearly 150 dangerous metal objects have been seized at the country's three international stations since the porticos were installed last July. Mr Minister, the situation is far from being a success, that is the least we can say. Do you confirm the criticisms made by the Securail agents? Do you have more accurate data? What is your position on this situation? Has this measure already been assessed? According to the article that repeats your remarks, a reform is currently being studied to increase the organizational framework of the railway police. What about its implementation?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-07-54-commissie-ic761x.u40	Minister, this summer, security gates were inaugurated in several Belgian TGV stations. These are not used systematically to carry out checks. A machine relies on algorithms to determine who needs to be controlled or not. Minister, my question is twofold. It deals, on the one hand, with the random aspect of controls. What are the concrete reasons for this choice? Some talk about a lack of staff, while others say it is a deliberate choice to limit queues. I personally take the side that this is about. In this case, how can we explain that airport controls are systematic? This is also due to the fact that people agree to come two hours in advance to take their flight while they would probably be very unhappy that they would be asked the same thing to take the Thalys. On the other hand, can you give us an initial assessment after a few months of implementation of this scheme, as you had already done after the first weeks? How many checks have been carried out and how many cases have proved problematic? What kind of cases were these? I would like to highlight one last point. In fact, even when there are controls, there is a way to avoid them. For example, at the Midi station, it is possible to enter on both sides of the station, not only on the side of the rue de France and Avenue Fonsny, but also on the other side of the station, near the bridge – I do not know the name of this street. The Air France counter is on this side. Three entrances are therefore possible. In addition, some national trains – such as my train from Braine-le-Comte – stop at the same platform as the Thalys trains at the Midi station. It should not be advertised, but in that case it is possible not to be controlled at all. Minister, thank you for your answers and for the follow-up you will give to this issue. I think we should already be happy about this great progress. We need to destabilize the terrorists, and I think you're contributing.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-07-54-commissie-ic761x.u41	Colleagues, the arrangements put in place at international stations since 14 July have been endorsed by the Government and the National Security Council. It is the result of a partnership between Securail, which controls passengers and their luggage, and the railway police, which provides police support to the device. The gates were placed in the international stations and also in the Brussels Airport station because of the connection of that station to the airport. Given the current threat level, there is no reason to extend the safety dispositive. With regard to the conduct of controls, as I have already had the opportunity to explain, the attacks have shown that soft targets are now the target of terrorists. Their goal is to create fear by showing society that they can act anywhere, at any time and against any target. However, it is impossible to fully control all places with a high concentration of people. It is therefore necessary to distinguish between monitoring and vigilance, which must be permanent, and control which must not be permanent but well targeted. It should also be avoided at all costs to make controls predictable, which would be the case if they were systematic and permanent. In the case of rail transport, it is also necessary to provide for a device that does not create additional risks for passengers, which would be the case if too long lines were created. Furthermore, rail transport must continue to be an easy-to-use means of transport if it is to remain competitive in the transport market. The protocol agreement pays particular attention to the smooth running of traffic. On certain days the safety dispositive was slightly adjusted on the basis of unforeseen traffic conditions. Moreover, air transport cannot be compared with rail transport. The first one operates in a closed network where it is a matter of travelling from a point A to a point B without frequent stops and for a fairly long duration. Travellers are therefore prepared to agree to go ahead and undergo systematic checks. The rail network is, by its very nature, an open network, often consisting of several stops during a journey and generally providing for shorter journeys than in air transport. It is therefore more difficult to secure. Passengers are not prepared to face as many constraints as in air transport and in any case, for a short journey. With regard to the number of police interventions at sites with control devices, to date it has been called for 170 dangerous objects or prohibited weapons. There was no gun. No composite weapons or dangerous objects of this type have been discovered but not excluded, SNCB is equipped with technological devices to detect them. When weapons or dangerous objects are seized, SNCB has no information on the legal consequences of the police action. For the control device other than portals, the process shall be as follows. Passengers and their luggage are controlled by a security gate and an X-Ray system, respectively. In case of doubt, this control may be supplemented by the use of a manual detector of metals and explosive substances. The federal police can also deploy dogs trained to detect explosives. I hope that SNCB will soon also be able to use this type of dog itself and thus avoid seeking police means. SNCB has recruited about 100 security officers for these devices. SNCB's remote surveillance network has also been strengthened and adapted to the threat. Some other measures are more discreet and must remain confidential. As far as the organizational framework of the railway police is concerned, I would like to refer you to my colleague from the Interior. With regard to the evaluation of the monitoring mechanism, a first evaluation was carried out in September with the Mobility and Interior Offices, as well as the SNCB and the Federal Police. This assessment is based in particular on the number of international trains controlled, the percentage of passengers in controlled international traffic, possible negative impacts on traffic flow, possible problems related to human capacity (Securail and police) required. I stress that it is very important to ensure that controls do not become predictable. Overall, implementation of the plan is expected. However, both my cabinet and Minister Jambon's cabinet have asked the federal police to step up their efforts so that more trains can be controlled. The results of the checks carried out between 14 July and 30 September are as follows. They were conducted from 700 Thalys, ICE and TGV trains. In this context, 33,532 passengers passed under the porticoes and 44,630 baggage were inspected through the X-ray system. The new evaluation is scheduled for the end of December.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-07-54-commissie-ic761x.u42	Minister, thank you very much for your answers. It is clear that considerable work is being done on your part. However, two problems remain. First of all, you insist, in methodological terms, on the random aspect of the checks: "We have to carry out surprise checks", you say. But when you go to London, every passenger has to cross the portico. Other models exist in terms of safety, some opting for total control. It is a political option, but the question remains. The portico system makes it possible to control everyone. Firms and stakeholders are unanimous in this regard. Secondly, as regards the necessity of the police presence to carry out these operations, I would like to point out that 50% of the police officers planned at the Midi station are missing. In my view, the current situation is therefore very worrying. I know that this is not your priority, since it is the responsibility of the Minister of the Interior. That is why I sincerely invite you to talk to him about it, so that the next intercabinets meetings can find a solution for the framework to be filled. In this way, new dramas could be avoided. My colleague Jean-Jacques Flahaux, who is used to visiting this station, gives a very personal observation by pointing out that the entrances and exits are located all over the place, giving the feeling that the controls are not reinforced. He did not say so, but only 50 per cent of the planned police force is present. This situation is deplorable. I therefore invite you, Mr Minister, to contact Mr Jambon, whom I will also question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-07-54-commissie-ic761x.u43	Minister, I think random checks are a good thing. When checks are systematic, those who have bad thoughts and, above all, those who do wrong deeds take them into account. In my opinion, the random aspect makes it possible to be more effective. In the form of an endade, I will recall the development of the "iron dogs", not the railways. This is a good proposal that you intend to develop.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-07-54-commissie-ic761x.u44	Make a short answer, minister. This issue has been going on for far too long!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-07-54-commissie-ic761x.u45	Madam President, this is an assessment!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-07-54-commissie-ic761x.u46	No, Mr. Flahaux, it's the rules. We have 80 questions on the agenda this afternoon.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-07-54-commissie-ic761x.u47	Systematic control for Eurostar is the result of an agreement between the Member States that join Eurostar and Eurotunnel. It was about a security issue. We are dealing with the same process. Mr Flahaux, it is possible to enter and exit the Midi station in several places, but the entrance to the Thalys is only through a single corridor. No matter where you enter the station, you have to go through this corridor. In addition to the checks of people heading for the Thalys, when the police or Securail detect particular behaviors in the station, even in the parts reserved for the internal network, it regularly happens to its members to pick up the persons concerned and ask them to go through the control, which gives from time to time results. The reflection on a canine brigade within Securail is already very advanced. I hope to see it come to fruition and be able to set it up in the coming months.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-07-54-commissie-ic761x.u48	Thank you for the additional information.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-07-54-commissie-ic761x.u49	Minister, according to an article published on the libre.be on 25 August, delays were recorded during this week at the Nord-Midi junction in Brussels, where a third of the country's trains pass every day, as sections of walls collapsed in several tunnels. According to Mr Sacré, spokesman for Infrabel: "These are not concrete blocks but Ytong blocks, which are quite light. We chose this material for its ease of handling but also because it is fire resistant. For safety, this is no danger." The hick is that these walls were erected at the beginning of the year in order to partition the tunnels of the junction. In order to avoid the impact of passenger traffic, the work had been carried out during the weekends. Led by a subcontractor of Infrabel, the site had ended a few weeks before the incidents. Infrabel's spokesman tells us: "One wall fell on Tuesday, August 21, and the upper part on Thursday, August 24. On previous nights, we inspected several of them but saw this second incident in a week, we reviewed everything last night. Finding: 15 walls (out of a total of 450) were not anchored in the ground! However, anchorages were provided for in the specifications. We dropped the 15 walls and the contractor will have to rebuild them at his own expense." Minister, could you give me some insight into the progress of the repair work? Is a schedule of planned (or ongoing) work available on the site? If so, are the work already completed or still under way? If not, why not? What budgets have been mobilised for this?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-07-54-commissie-ic761x.u50	Dear colleague, with regard to the repair work in question, Infrabel informs me that everything has been stabilized since 27 August 2017. As the cause of the accident is a poor performance by the contractor, the repair costs are entirely at the contractor's expense, which he acknowledged and performed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-07-54-commissie-ic761x.u51	Minister, a passenger train connecting Liège-Palais and Mons struck a worker working on a construction site. The man was taken to the hospital and his days were considered in danger. He died the next day. If the labour auditor went down to the scene, Infrabel, the company that manages the rail infrastructure, explains that the man worked for a subcontractor of one of its subsidiaries. "This work was to be carried out on the lower side in order to modernise the signage. However, these did not require crossing the tracks," said Mr Sacré, spokesman for Infrabel. Therefore, the procedures would not have been followed. For its part, the union CGSP Chemots denounces this situation and points to the savings made by Infrabel. "To pay less, private companies and subcontractors are used," says Thierry Moers, CGSP's regional secretary. "Often workers don't speak French. Here, the man, who is of Slovenian origin, was in a dangerous place, behind a yellow lattice. Logically, there should have been a safety cover, as we organize it with indications given to prevent the train from passing or with a warning watch." Minister, have you taken any steps with Infrabel to find out the exact circumstances of this dramatic accident? What are the final conclusions? Is it possible to learn from this tragedy in order to improve rail safety in Belgium? What steps do you intend to take to ensure that this type of accident no longer occurs? Do you have any information regarding the liability incurred in this accident? What are the procedures used by SNCB for this type of work? How is an audit conducted to ensure that security measures are met? Does this death pose the question of the savings made by Infrabel to the detriment of security? As the trade unionist pointed out: "How do we understand the instructions? With this kind of method, we go to the pipe breaker. What is happening is unfortunate but it highlights what we have been denouncing for months, namely that rail subcontracts to companies without respecting safety measures."
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-07-54-commissie-ic761x.u52	Dear colleague, there is a need for clarification. The victim of the accident did not die. She was injured in the torso. Infrabel tells me that at no time was the life of this person considered to be in danger. She was able to leave the hospital about a week after the work accident. The accident took place on 31 July 2017. Infrabel adds that investigations that are legally provided for in the legislation on occupational welfare and safety of exploitation are under way. Other surveys are under way, including those carried out by the investigative body and the SPF Employment, Labour and Social Concertation. At this stage of the investigation and without all the elements, it is not possible for me to draw definitive conclusions or to take any steps to prevent this type of accident or to decide on liability. Verifications are carried out at different levels. There are controls that are provided for by law, such as those carried out by the SPF Employment, Labour and Social Concertation. There are also controls that are part of the contractor's organization and the controls provided for by Infrabel's regulatory requirements that are part of the specifications. Infrabel recalls that in 2016, EUR 886 million was invested in safety, punctuality and capacity in rail infrastructure. Security is the first value and priority of Infrabel. The infrastructure manager shall apply this principle at all levels and therefore also with regard to contacts and contracts with subcontractors and instructions provided to them for the performance of the work. Each company manages incidents in accordance with its safety management system. SNCB states that the work in progress at Engis did not impose a speed limitation on trains. In this case, the current regulations do not provide for reference to safety notices issued by Infrabel for use by drivers. When train drivers or other SNCB agents find dangerous situations or abnormal behaviour on the site, they report them to Infrabel. Where appropriate, they shall perform an emergency braking procedure. SNCB ensures that it carries out checks to verify that the provisions are applied by its staff.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-07-54-commissie-ic761x.u53	Minister, thank you for your answers. This is obviously the information I have read in the press. Of course, I am glad to know that the person did not die. For the rest, I myself had the experience of collapsing Louvain's roadway. By the way, you came to Saint-Josse at that time. I saw that a follow-up was being done with the subcontractors. In general, this is going well. Nevertheless, it should be verified that the instructions are being followed. Has a more specific report been sent to you? It is important that these subcontractors be monitored on a regular basis.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-07-54-commissie-ic761x.u54	Minister, I do not come only with unpleasant questions. This is the reduction of fraud at SNCB. I guess you've been very active lately. The press was talking about twice as much fraud at SNCB in just two years. Last year, 266,500 irregularity records were prepared. In 2015, there were 100,000 more and there were 525,000 in 2014. The statistics are spectacular. In two years, such a decrease leaves me mouthless. As a reminder, the famous C170 are the fines imposed by a train attendant for various reasons, the most common being transport without valid transport document. SNCB confirms that this is the case for 80% of fines or more. Would there be less fraud or fewer controls? That's the question we always ask ourselves in these cases. According to the article, regular rail users referred to this impression. This is not a scientific study. Users report being checked six or seven times out of ten, where they previously had to show their ticket eight or nine times out of ten trips. Here too, it's random. We've changed our method. However, for SNCB, the level of control remains unchanged. If the number of observations is in sharp decline, it is because we have put in place a bunch of devices to discourage customers from travelling without a ticket. So, minister, I'm asking you to convince me. How do you explain these figures, these developments? Is there a causal link between the decrease in fraudsters and a decrease in the number of checks, as some travellers point out? What is your view on this? Have there been any remarkable differences between railway lines in the number of persons travelling without a transport document? In how many cases (annually and throughout the period 2014 to date), has SNCB transmitted to the Public Prosecutor's Office the missing passengers' records? In how many cases did this result in convictions? In how many cases did this result in compensation from SNCB?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-07-54-commissie-ic761x.u55	Dear colleague, regarding the evolution of the control of transport tickets on trains, SNCB informs me that it is correct that in 2016, the control rate decreased as a result of the known youth diseases of the new ITRIS work apparatus of train attendants. In 2017, following a significant improvement in the performance of these aircraft, a high level of awareness and increased monitoring of train attendants, this trend reversed again. The number of checks on trains has exceeded the previous figures several times. Analysis of the data shows that there is an increase in the number of checks on trains comparable to that of C170, which leads to the conclusion that the rate of fraud is relatively stable. With regard to the evolution of the findings of irregularity of C170, it is correlated with the checks carried out on board the trains but also with other parameters such as the introduction of the tariff on board. According to SNCB, the figures indicate that the objectives pursued in this framework have also been achieved. As for possible differences between lines, SNCB states that it does not have line statistics. As regards the rate of recovery of the overall amounts still opened, the SNCB communicates that this rate is very low and this, despite the steps taken by its services and by the external partner who is the judicial officer. This is one of the reasons why my firm and SNCB are working on the administrative fines project. As you know, it is an enforceable title that must be paid in order not to be exposed to serious trouble.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-07-54-commissie-ic761x.u56	Your answer shows the importance of the role of the attendants. When they are present, checks and accompaniment are carried out. It's not nothing. You have had the honesty to explain that it is the decrease in controls that has reduced the number of minutes written. The other aspect is the difficulty encountered by SNCB in recovering. This shows that the procedures are too cumbersome. I will wait for the government's proposals to ask you about the proposed administrative fines. Merci.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-07-54-commissie-ic761x.u57	Madam President, Minister, the new Leuven Straightdoor flight route was introduced by the then Secretary of State for Mobility in March 2014. Before the introduction of Leuven Straight ahead, only declining flights took place in the west wind and in the south wind. At east winds and north winds there was no aircraft in that zone, as rising air traffic went through Leuven West. So there were rest zones for the zone Leuven Straight ahead. After the introduction of Leuven Straight ahead, however, there is always air traffic and associated nuisance in that zone. Leuven West has become a no-fly zone since 2014. The consequences for the municipalities located in the Leuven area are devastated by the disappearance of the rest zones and therefore by increased noise pollution. The Belgocontrol evaluation report on Leuven Rechtdoor also teaches us that the route presents technical and operational problems. However, a pragmatic proposal is going round, which makes it possible for Leuven not to be abolished straightaway, but to be taxed less. There are two points in this proposal. Firstly, the installation of rest periods. For example, time slots of eight hours could be built in, in which the Leuven zone takes off straight ahead or not. Secondly, it suggests that the aircraft that take off at east or northeast wind towards Leuven straight ahead and which actually fly to the beacon Chièvres, located between Mons and Tournai, should take immediately Leuven West, so the shortest bend to the beacon, and would not fly away from the beacon, and then have to return, all at low altitude. In this context, I have the following questions. Do you have any knowledge of the proposal? If so, was it already investigated by technical working groups and Belgocontrol? Secondly, is it your intention to do something during the current legislature to make the Leuven zone more liveable?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-07-54-commissie-ic761x.u58	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the procedures for taking off from the 07 runways are applied when the wind does not allow the use of the Preferential Runway System's runways and therefore must be waived from the PRS. The only route that exists today on departure from the 07-jobs is the so-called procedure-Leuven Straight ahead. The alternative solution, in particular Leuven West, was examined following the judgment at first instance in the Leuven Rechtdoor file, but was revised as a result of the revision of the judgment following opposition from the State. This case is currently pending before the Court of Appeal. The proposal to alter the routes Leuven Straight ahead and Leuven West is indeed one of the proposals examined by my cabinet. Both in relation to the route-Leuven Straight ahead and for the other routes, I want to arrive at a fair and balanced overall solution. However, this will have to be done with a mandate from the government on the basis of my proposals.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-07-54-commissie-ic761x.u59	Minister, I am pleased to hear that the proposal to alter is before your cabinet for study. The Leuven West route was, as you rightly say, investigated in court. For me, that is proof once again that we must keep such a complex safety matter mainly from judges who know very little about this matter. We await the implementation of your proposals with a mandate from the government.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-07-54-commissie-ic761x.u60	Mr Minister, with the start of the new school and academic year, the planned bicycle storage facilities at the station in Bruges are again overcrowded. Also today I wanted to store my bike there, but that is almost impossible. One has to arrive almost 20 minutes early and hope someone is just leaving. Trying to catch a train is very time-consuming and stressful. We all want to leave the car at home, but it really makes it difficult for us to find a place for our bike. Often people can only leave their bike in a non-regulatory place. Either people miss their train, or they can't find their bike when they return after a long working day. At the launch of the KB over, among other things, electric bicycles, you stated that 100 000 additional bicycle storage facilities would be provided at the SNCB stations. That is a very good objective, Minister. I hope Bruges, as a city centre, wasn't forgotten. In times of sustainable transport, I think it is necessary to encourage the combination of train and bike, partly due to sufficiently comfortable bicycle parking spaces in the station, which can make that combination even more attractive. I have the following questions, Minister. Firstly, for how many bicycles is there currently a place at the station in Bruges, side Sint-Michiels and side Centre? Secondly, what will SNCB do to address the shortage of bicycle storage facilities? Thirdly, what deadline does SNCB provide for this approach?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-07-54-commissie-ic761x.u61	Mrs Lambrecht, station parkings play a key role in intermodality. SNCB guarantees that it will monitor the development of its parking facilities on top of the train supply. In the future investment plan, SNCB provides for an increase in the number of parking spaces, including for cyclists. As far as the situation in Bruges is concerned, SNCB informs me that it was in October with the city and that solutions are being sought to increase the number of bicycle parking facilities at Bruges station. A work track was discussed to extend the bike racks on the side of the Centre with some 600 places, following the existing bicycle sheds. This slope is now further evaluated by both parties. On the side of Sint-Michiels the solution is sought in the installation of floor shelves in the existing bicycle storage under the Kam building. The number of bicycle parking spaces could therefore be increased by some 500. That is the most customer-friendly solution, but at the same time an expensive solution. SNCB will examine the extent to which this can be achieved by means of the available resources. SNCB and Infrabel have finally completed the harmonisation of their multi-annual investment plans, including the additional resources from the Investment Pact. The result of the harmonisation exercise is a joint proposal from both companies which is now being discussed with the Regions. Pending the conclusions of that consultation, it is premature to give precise forecasts of your question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-07-54-commissie-ic761x.u62	Madam President, Minister, I am very pleased with the start of your reply, where you say that all these extra places will be available, but then suddenly I am much less happy when I hear that it has yet to be discussed with the Regions. Can you explain why that is still necessary? If we can move quickly, then we must move quickly. Mobility is a regional competence, but if the decisions have been taken here, why should the regions still be taken? Can you give me a timing? When will we not waste any more time looking for stables for bicycles near the station?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-07-54-commissie-ic761x.u63	You're asking for a timing? I don't know. That'll be for the next four years. Once the procedure is completed, it will be possible by the end of 2018.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-07-54-commissie-ic761x.u64	Minister, please excuse me. I thought you wouldn't answer me. I had actually noticed that I did not understand how it could, if the plans are there to add so many bike racks, which I find incredibly okay and good, then this should go back to the Regions so that we will now lose so much time back.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-07-54-commissie-ic761x.u65	We have defined a comprehensive strategy for the release of 100,000 bicycle seats and have contacted several cities for this purpose. Places are reserved in Bruges, for example, with 500 places on one side and 600 on the other. To go further, more investment and physical locations are needed. In any case, these 1,100 seats could be installed very quickly.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-07-54-commissie-ic761x.u66	Madam President, I should like to inform you that I have decided to turn my question No 21353, which appears in item 65 of our written agenda, into a written question because I have to leave to attend a meeting.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-07-54-commissie-ic761x.u67	That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-07-54-commissie-ic761x.u68	Mr Minister, the European Commission is updating the European Union rules on rail passenger rights in order to better protect users in the event of delay, cancellation or discrimination. Indeed, users of European railways must be fully protected, regardless of their destination in the European Union. The Commission also wants to ensure that passengers are properly informed and that the rights of travellers with disabilities or reduced mobility are significantly strengthened. The Commission proposal is proportionate in that it provides that railway operators may, under strict conditions, be exempted from the obligation to offer compensation to passengers in the event of delay. It updates existing rules on the rights of rail passengers in five main areas: uniform application of rules, information and non-discrimination, strengthening the rights of persons with disabilities or reduced mobility, compliance with rules, processing of complaints and sanctions, proportionality and fairness Minister, what are the next deadlines for the adoption of these proposals by the European Commission? What will be the necessary adaptations for Belgian rail in these five major areas? The single market for rail passenger transport is progressing with the planned introduction of competition in national markets. What will be the next steps for Belgium to allow this competition in rail passenger transport? European Union legislation on rail passenger rights entered into force in December 2009. What is the status of Belgium in the application of this legislation?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-07-54-commissie-ic761x.u69	Colleagues, honourable Member, with regard to your first question on the next deadlines, the European Commission has tabled its proposal. It will be up to the Council to approve it, after negotiations. Work under the Estonian Presidency will continue in the next half-year under the Bulgarian Presidency. At this stage, therefore, no fixed timetable for the approval of these proposals by the European Commission is announced. Given that the negotiations have just begun and that it cannot be foreseen whether the text proposed by the Commission will be amended, it is premature to determine in detail the adaptations which will have to be implemented by the Belgian rail in order to comply with the new European rules on the subject. As regards the timetable for the implementation of the fourth railway package, in its opening-up to competition of national rail passenger markets, two types of services should be distinguished. First, the commercial service, which will be liberalised from the service schedule beginning at the end of 2020, in accordance with Directive 2016/2370. As regards a directive, it will have to be transposed into the Belgian legal order by 25 December 2018, in order to give effect to the opening up to competition of the commercial passenger inland transport service. To date, a draft transposition law is being drafted within the administration. Secondly, no doubt the most important element, the public service will always be eligible for direct allocation to SNCB, subject to compliance with a performance and application scheme from the end of 2023. That is why we are preparing the company for this deadline. Finally, with regard to your last question on European Union legislation on passenger rights, Belgium is a good student of the European class, since it is one of the five Member States of the European Union to fully apply passenger law, including for domestic passenger transport. The Regulation entered into force automatically on 3 December 2009. The procedure for handling complaints in the event of an infringement of this Regulation, as well as the administrative procedure for handling such complaints, is laid down by the Act of 15 May 2014.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-07-54-commissie-ic761x.u70	Minister, thank you for your answer, which at this stage does not call for any reply on my part.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-07-54-commissie-ic761x.u71	Minister, the inhabitants of the municipality of Lens have been asking a lot of questions since they know that Infrabel has commissioned a study that concludes that three level crossings on their entity will soon be closed. While no decision seems to have been taken to date, the information circulating around the alternatives envisaged by Infrabel to compensate for these closures does not reassure the communal authorities. The latter fear that the realities on the ground will not be sufficiently taken into account. They point out, for example, that there are already major mobility problems on the RN56 due to Pairi Daiza Park. For the municipal authorities, the announced closure of the three crossings will undoubtedly cause disadvantages to the inhabitants of the Lensian entity if effective alternatives are not proposed. In particular, the intensification of car traffic, with the associated risks of safety and congestion, is at the heart of the concerns. Minister, my questions are as follows. Could you give the reasons for closing three level crossings on the Lens entity? Is this decision inevitable? What guarantee can you give to local authorities who fear a lack of consideration of the realities on the ground, regarding the alternatives studied by Infrabel to compensate for these closures? What answer can you give to the local authorities in Lens who wish to be better associated and better interact with Infrabel before a decision is taken?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-07-54-commissie-ic761x.u72	Minister, Infrabel has commissioned a study on the abolition of level crossings in the municipalities of Ath, Brugelette and Lens. Such a proposal could lead to the risk of complications, particularly affecting traffic on the major mobility axis in the already overloaded RN56 region. Infrabel's study therefore calls for the abolition of two level crossings on the L90 line and twelve others on the L90B line at Ath, Brugelette and Lens. If I take the particular case of the latter municipality, the deletion of three level crossings would be considered. Their eventual closure would have consequences for the daily lives of the inhabitants, as well as for the agricultural carts, which would then be sent back to the RN56. Also, Infrabel's proposals seem irrelevant to me in view of the already abundant traffic formed by the regular visitors of Pairi Daiza and the daily cart in the center of Lens. In addition, Lens and its surrounding municipalities are primarily rural areas, which therefore drain an important agricultural cart and whose relocation on the RN56 would make it impossible to move smoothly. In this capacity, Minister, can you tell us whether Infrabel's study was produced by combining the communal powers of Lens? Are the solutions proposed by this company definitive or can they still be reviewed in the light of local characteristics and the particularity of the Lens traffic? How long are these closures scheduled? Does Infrabel envisage an agenda that could inform people and farmers about this?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-07-54-commissie-ic761x.u73	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, my answer will be divided into three areas: level crossings, the bureau of experts and local consultation. With regard to level crossings at Lens, the abolition of level crossings located on rue de la Gare, rue de Cambron and rue de la Haye in Lens is an integral part of the policy of securing the entire Belgian network and constitutes a real added value in terms of punctuality for commuters. The number of accidents at railway crossings is still too high every year on the rail network. In addition to the tragedies they cause, these incidents are also the source of disruption and delays for rail traffic: 391 incidents were recorded in 2016 causing 48,015 minutes late, or on average 2:11 hours a day on the Belgian rail network. With regard to the office of experts, Infrabel used an independent office of mobility experts to carry out a study including an analysis of the use of the various level crossings, a listing of existing urban and physical constraints (talus, etc.) as well as a list of different possibilities to remove each crossing. Their mission is to propose a strategy for eliminating level crossings by classifying actions into three groups: short, medium and long term. When the removal requires the construction of a replacement bridge or tunnel, Infrabel guarantees that the crossing will not be closed until the structure is put into service. The conclusions of the study are then presented to the local authorities concerned in order to take account, as far as possible, of local specificities. As regards local consultation, for Infrabel, consultation with the municipal authorities is of course essential and allows, where appropriate, certain improvements to be made on the basis of the knowledge of the terrain (choose of the routes, the roads of deviation and the location of the works). It was in this context that the conclusions of the mobility study were presented to the Collège Communal de Lens on 26 June. At the end of the first meeting, the College was asked to deliver an opinion. A further working meeting will be held in the near future to continue the dialogue. In all cases, Infrabel will take the necessary steps to inform the residents.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-07-54-commissie-ic761x.u74	Minister, thank you for all these details. In any event, you guarantee that level crossings will not be removed until alternatives are completed, if any exist. If I understood correctly, depending on the study, either the crossing is removed without an alternative, or it is maintained, or a tunnel is planned for example. There was a presentation at the College. Do you know if he gave a notice or not?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-07-54-commissie-ic761x.u75	I don't have that information.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-07-54-commissie-ic761x.u76	It is therefore Infrabel who will resume contact with the College.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-07-54-commissie-ic761x.u77	Mr. Minister, in the course of the study, I had seen that in the three level crossings planned to be abolished, two are without alternatives since it is proposed to bring traffic back to an existing track. It was therefore only for the rue de Cambron that work was to be planned. When you talk about consultation or possible alternative, this means that when there are no special works planned in parallel, these passages will be simply deleted and, in this case, this may happen quickly.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-07-54-commissie-ic761x.u78	The whole thing is that there are alternatives. When it is not necessary to have alternatives, because there is already another solution, I imagine that this is going faster. But urban planning permits are needed. In my opinion, with regard to permits requested by a public authority, it is the Walloon Region which issues after public investigation. So I think everyone can express themselves. I know level crossings that have been under study for 25 years.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-07-54-commissie-ic761x.u79	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-07-54-commissie-ic761x.u80	Minister, according to an article in the dh.be, the number of offences found by the integrated police for driving under the influence of drugs increased by 16% in 2016 compared to the previous year, according to traffic statistics of the federal police. Overall, the number of offences increased by 2.37% compared to 2015. Federal and local police recorded more than 4.7 million offences in 2016, an increase of 2.37% over 2015. The most common offences are behaviour related to speed, driving under influence and non-wearing of the belt. Excessive speed is the majority of offences (nearly 70%). The Federal Police, however, welcome the fact that "very, if not extremely high, speeding shows a downward trend". On the other hand, driving under influence showed the largest increase in 2016, including offences for driving under the influence of drugs, which increased significantly (more than 16%). Minister, what is your analysis of these federal police statistics? What conclusions do you draw? What specific measures are planned to combat drug-influenced driving? What are the budgets?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-07-54-commissie-ic761x.u81	Dear colleague, most drug driving offences are committed by male drivers in their 20s. The increase in these offences may be linked to an increase in drug use in the field of outings and at night, but is certainly also due to the introduction of the salivary test in 2011 and the increased importance that the police attach to this issue. Several actions have been taken to combat this phenomenon. I would like to point out that the current regulatory framework that falls within my remit is very clear: for drugs, zero tolerance applies. I also invite you to question the Ministers of Justice and the Interior, who have also taken measures to control and prosecute drugs while driving. It is difficult to say whether drug-influenced driving has really increased since the police often do selective checks, for example, near a dance or music festival. In addition, in general, young police officers receive better basic drug training and therefore carry out more specific controls than their elders. From the moment you're not looking for anything, you can't find it. If you are looking for and have techniques, you will find them. But the fact that there is a change in the actual percentage of drivers in breach compared to five years ago is difficult. Five years ago, these tests were not available; there was no measurement standard.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-07-54-commissie-ic761x.u82	Minister, good news: there is a decrease in the number of people killed on the roads in the first half of 2017. According to the latest figures revealed, on 15 September last, by the Vias Institute (formerly the Belgian Institute for Road Safety – IBSR), the number of people killed on the road fell by 13% in the first half of the year compared to the first six months of the previous year, to 230, "a historically low level in our country". Personal injuries also fall, as well as the number of injuries. It should be noted that on Flemish roads, the number of people killed has decreased more than on Walloon roads. There were also fewer accidents and injuries in Wallonia as well as in Flanders. On the other hand, in the Brussels Region, the number of fatalities increased from 4 to 6, while accidents decreased slightly, although the number of injuries increased. However, the barometer still notes an increase in the number of accidents among heavy goods vehicles, cyclists and especially bikers. The number of accidents involving cyclists in Brussels is the highest (+24.5%). On the basis of this information, I would like to ask you to provide us with your analysis of these results. What conclusions do you draw? Are these results rooted in concrete actions, projects or political initiatives? You have stated that other measures will soon come into force, including the requirement of on-board ethylotest for any driver convicted after having been checked with an alcohol level of at least 1.8. What is the timetable for the effectiveness of this measure?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-07-54-commissie-ic761x.u83	Dear colleague, the provisional results of the latest Road Safety Barometer of the Vias Institute indicate a positive trend in road accident statistics. I am particularly pleased that they are the result of a 2016 year when road safety figures had already reached a historic downward threshold. However, out of respect for families who are still experiencing drama, we must not fall into triumphalism. As long as there are victims of the road, progress will be possible. As I have already outlined on previous parliamentary issues, my administration has drafted a draft bill to improve road safety. This project aims, inter alia, to improve the fight against alcohol while driving, to increase the punishment of the offences of flight with wounded or dead, to combat driving without a valid driving licence, and to prevent the recurrence of such offences. This bill focuses on recidivist drivers and serious offences. It is intended, for example, to force (the offender) the use of anti-start ethylotest for a period of one to three years, or even for life in case of recidivism, from a consumption of alcohol at the level of 1.2/1000, without exception possible – I insist – and in case of very high blood alcohol, found only once beyond 1.8/1000. Without any contrary justification by the judge, this measure will be automatic and mandatory. I must point out that the cost remains the same. Currently, infringements involving a rate of 1.8 amount to several thousand euros. The expensive nature of anti-start ethylotest is sometimes invoked, but this technique will be less costly than the loss of employment or the imposition of a social constraint. The legislative process is ongoing. The preliminary draft has been sent to the Council of State for its opinion, but it is still too early to inform you of the date of entry into force of this measure, which depends on the various steps still to be taken: the presentation of the draft law in committee, then in plenary session of Parliament, the publication of the text and, finally, the implementation of the technical provisions. If everything goes as planned, the new regulation is expected to be ready in early 2018.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-07-54-commissie-ic761x.u84	Minister, on September 18, the motor coach Voyages Léonard inaugurated in your presence his first line of Wikibus between Heppignies and Louvain-la-Neuve. The Wikibus is a comfortable car (wifi, coffee machine, leather seats, air conditioning, toilet...) of 33 seats which is presented as an alternative to the company car. According to the project promoters, this initiative is in fact reserved for employees of several companies who have to travel to areas of economic activity which are often underserved by public transport or which lack parking. By the end of 2018, the Wikibus project plans to extend to eight lines, including several around Brussels (Waterloo, Braine-l'Alleud) for trips around 50 minutes. Minister, what is your view on this project? How do you assess its ambition to extend to eight lines, including several around Brussels for trips around 50 minutes by the end of 2018? What impact will this project have on the use of company cars?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-07-54-commissie-ic761x.u85	Dear colleague, I was indeed present at the opening of the first Wikibus line between Heppignies and Louvain-la-Neuve on 18 September. I fully support this initiative for several reasons. First of all, I believe that coaches have an important role to play in the transport of people and that this role will grow in the years to come. By replacing several dozen cars, this mode of transport is indeed part of the response that must be given to the congestion of our road network, alongside the rail network, especially in areas less well served by it. The Wikibus can also be easily combined with soft modes of transport: folding bikes are present in the hold. This project therefore contributes to more sustainable mobility by providing cleaner travel. On the other hand, unlike the car, it is important to stress that the length of the journey is used by the user here. More than a means of transport, the coach becomes in this case – as in the case of the train – a real place of work that takes place next to other forms of remote work such as telework or coworking. Finally, the Wikibus also has a tax advantage for businesses. For example, an employer who organizes a public transport of his staff by means of vehicles owned by his company or owned by an outside company may deduct 120 per cent of the costs incurred in organizing this mode of transport. If it proves impossible to quantify the impact of this project on the use of the company car, there is no doubt that this is a credible alternative to it, for both users and employers and businesses. The opening of seven new lines by the end of 2018 is therefore excellent news for mobility in our country. I would remind you that this is a purely private initiative, in which the public authorities do not participate financially; but the development of this alternative to the car has our full support.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-07-54-commissie-ic761x.u86	Minister, thank you. I fully share your views on this project, whose strengths you have presented, and on the growing role that the Wikibus will have, in combination with soft mobility. People can obviously take advantage of the journey to work, read or do many other things. Finally, the tax advantage is perhaps, as you said, an extraordinary opportunity for businesses, particularly in relation to the problems of car congestion in Brussels. Do you intend to disseminate information about Wikibus to businesses in large cities?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-07-54-commissie-ic761x.u87	The bus operator contacted several large employers. It also has statistics on the potential of workers in terms of housing. In concrete terms, the first people who have been contacted are those who, on their own economic site, all come from the same region. Employers' mobility advisors can communicate to the operator because the origin of their workers to see if they reach the critical size to be able to put a bus into service.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-07-54-commissie-ic761x.u88	Mr Devin's questions (Nos. 21043, 21045, 21044, 21046, 21048, 21049 and 21052) are transformed into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-07-54-commissie-ic761x.u89	Minister, public transport must be simple and easy to use for all, including those with reduced mobility. Therefore, in the management agreements of the railway companies with the Belgian State, they committed themselves to increasing the accessibility of rolling stock and infrastructure and improving the provision of services to passengers with disabilities. I have just asked you a few written questions on this subject. However, I have a number of additional questions. Firstly, your answer shows that 23 out of 135 stations and 68 out of 416 unattended stops meet the accessibility criteria for persons with reduced mobility. Which stations and stops are involved? Secondly, is there any plan to make other stations more accessible to people with disabilities? Finally, since September, it is possible for people with reduced mobility in 40 stations to request assistance three hours in advance. Before that, only 18 stations could do that. This is, of course, already a sensitive improvement, but the figures you gave me showed that many requests for assistance were refused every year for lack of available staff and not so much for technical reasons. Do you intend to adjust a sleeve there? If so, in what way? Can you therefore guarantee that in the future there will always be sufficient staff available in the 40 Belgian stations with a reservation period of three hours to assist people with disabilities?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-07-54-commissie-ic761x.u90	Mr Minister, to my question on the reservation period for persons with reduced mobility, which was transposed at the committee meeting on 3 October, I quote: 'In relation to Mr Geerts' question concerning the number of stations which are fully accessible, SNCB considers that 23 stations and 68 stops are fully accessible from the street to the platform. This does not mean, however, that wheelchair users can use the train without assistance: the vertical and horizontal open spaces between the platform and the train always make assistance necessary." This means, in fact, that people with reduced mobility in our country cannot actually count on autonomous transport. We always assumed that an improvement in investment for people with reduced mobility would lead to the autonomy of everyone. In Mrs Demir's policy paper, we read: "More specifically, it has been agreed to standardise the height of the trains and the platform heights in the long term, so that people with wheelchairs can get on the train without help. These uniform standards must then be taken into account when purchasing new train sets. Finally, there is a consistent and accessible auditory and visual signaling in the train, on the platform and in the station." It therefore states in its policy paper that more concrete things were agreed. Who was that meeting with? You say in your reply that assistance is always needed, whereas Mrs Demir's policy paper states that people with reduced mobility will be able to use public transport without help and will therefore be able to travel autonomously. In addition, persons with reduced mobility must comply with a reservation period: they must be present 20 minutes in advance. But I have been told how some people, because they could not park immediately in the vicinity, were only present 10 minutes in advance and were not allowed to go on the train, because that was against the SNCB procedure. How is this all in line with the commitment that people with reduced mobility will be able to travel autonomously? I also agree with Mr Raskin's comment. Which platforms and stations will be fully accessible to passengers? What does full accessibility mean? I think there are two different definitions of this in our country.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-07-54-commissie-ic761x.u91	A station or stop point shall be deemed to be accessible to persons with reduced mobility if it meets the following four criteria. First, all platforms have a height of 76 cm. Secondly, all platforms are directly accessible via public space, via the station, via an underpass or via a pedestrian bridge, equipped with lifts or PPE ramps. Thirdly, all platforms are equipped with podotactile guide lines. Fourthly, there is at least one ticket machine available. Currently 23 stations and 68 unmanned stops meet the PPE accessibility criteria. SNCB gave me the list, and I'll get it to you. The future multi-annual investment plan sets out to make 25 additional stations fully accessible to persons with reduced mobility. This is an average of five additional stations per year. In order to enter a train from a platform and vice versa, for certain PMMs, such as wheelchair users, external assistance will still be required for trains with different access heights, depending on the type of train. SNCB and Infrabel have completed the harmonisation of their multi-annual investment plans, including the plans for additional resources from the Investment Pact. The result of this harmonisation exercise is a joint proposal from both companies, which is now being discussed with the Regions. Pending the conclusions of the consultations, it is premature to communicate precise prospects. In addition, I would like to point out that SNCB continuously improves access to its stations and trains for people with reduced mobility. They can obtain personal assistance in boarding or disembarking at 131 of the 552 stations and stop points. Until 2016, these requests had to be submitted 24 hours in advance to ensure full assistance throughout the journey, including at the connecting and destination stations. Since January 2016, this reservation period has been reduced to three hours for direct relations between 18 major stations, namely Antwerp-central, Bruges, Brussels-central, Brussels-Nord, Brussels-Midi, Denderleeuw, Termonde, Ghent-Saint-Pierre, Hasselt, Courtrai, Louvain, Malines, Ostende, Saint-Nicolas, Charleroi-Sud, Liège-Guillemins, Mons and Namur. Since September of this year, the number of stations where it is possible to reserve up to three hours in advance personal assistance for persons with reduced mobility has been doubled. In fact, 23 stations were added to the first 18. This service is now available in a total of 41 large stations. In this regard, you will find a list of the stations concerned and all the relevant travel information on the SNCB website, in the "Customer service – passengers with reduced mobility" tab. As regards the number of requests for assistance for PMRs submitted in the first half of 2017, the number of requests for assistance for PMRs submitted in the first half of 2017 is 26 567 and is steadily increasing. SNCB tells me that the number of assistance applications refused should be reduced. It is not because an application for assistance is refused that the assistance is not being carried out. In the end, an alternative is proposed and found on most refused applications. In any case, SNCB makes all reasonable efforts in all 131 PPE stations, including in the 41 with three hours of reservation, to ensure that the person with reduced mobility arrives at his or her destination by train. An extension of the reduced reservation time in several stations is also currently being studied by SNCB. SNCB informs me that, for stations where no PMR assistance is provided but where staff are present, the ticket office may accompany the PMR passenger to his train, provided that this does not require the implementation of technical means for boarding (e.g. loading platforms). On the other hand, when the opening hours of the windows are reduced, this assistance cannot be provided, given the absence of staff at the station. In view of the resources available to it, SNCB is not in a position to extend the "B for You" teams which are dimensioned to provide assistance at the 114 stations where it is planned. To answer Mr Devin's question about the presence of mobile teams "B for You" to strengthen support for PMRs at Binche station, I would add that SNCB ensures that its customers, including PMRs, are treated in the same way at all stations. It would therefore be discriminatory with regard to PMRs embarking at other unmanned stations that such a service be organised in Binche and not at all other stations concerned where problems with PMRs arise.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-07-54-commissie-ic761x.u92	Thank you for the detailed list, Minister. I will, of course, put it in addition to the information I received through your written reply, in order to reach a conclusion. I am not entirely reassured about refusing assistance applications, but perhaps some of the nuances of your comprehensive answer have been ignored. I will look at your answer together with the figures. It is good to hear that you are not moving away from the extension of the shortened reservation period to other stations, but that it is being studied. Of course, you do not want to stick to that, you are right, but I think it is important that there should be a commitment to continue along this path.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-07-54-commissie-ic761x.u93	Thank you, Minister, for your comprehensive reply and for the list we will continue to examine. In any case, you should ask SNCB to discuss full accessibility with the National High Council for Persons with Disabilities. There appears to be some uncertainty as to who can move autonomously. That debate must be held there.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-07-54-commissie-ic761x.u94	Minister, I recently read in the newspaper that Infrabel had recruited a convicted former Syrian warrior, Zakaria H., to serve as a train driver. I have asked questions about this in the past, even during the previous legislature, when Mr Labille was still responsible. Mr Zakaria had nine months of training. If he had evil intentions, he could carry out several terrorist acts from his position as a train driver. In current threat level 3, there is a huge security risk. Train driver is a public service task. Our railways belong to the critical infrastructure. It is therefore important that candidates are thoroughly screened before they can start training. That event shows that, unfortunately, screening is not yet fully waterproof. That is why I have the following questions for you, Minister. Is it true that the person in question had no criminal record at the time of recruitment? Has the individual already independently, without guidance, driven a train? How did the conviction come to light at Infrabel and HR Rail? Are the railway companies pro-actively communicating with the State's Security about their recruitment to safety posts? What conclusions do the railway companies draw from this issue?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-07-54-commissie-ic761x.u95	Minister, a few weeks ago it appeared that a convicted Syrian fighter was able to receive train driver training at Infrabel for nine months. Because it was a recent conviction, it wasn't on his criminal record when he was recruited by SNCB. It took six months for the court to notify HR Rail of the conviction. At that time, the man was fired. According to internal rules, an employee of HR Rail must inform the company himself when he is convicted. That is, of course, very strange. In this case it did not happen. You said you wanted to make a law to ensure better safety screening of train drivers. This would make it impossible for a person who is a threat to safety in our country to be able to work as a train driver. That must indeed be the answer to this problem in the short term. It's about someone who, although he doesn't have a blank record at the time, is admitted to training. A conviction is pronounced during his training and he is fired. There are two issues involved: the screening itself and the mechanism for obtaining information from the security services to SNCB as soon as possible. In the case of SNCB, critical infrastructure is being used. There must be a way to play shorter on the ball. Minister, how is the screening of candidate train drivers going today? How does security screening for other functions go at the moment? There are other critical functions in our country. How do you evaluate the screening? How does HR Rail evaluate the screening? You announced a new law on security screening. Was that the reason for your legislative initiative? If not, what was the reason? What exactly do you want to incorporate into the law and how do you intend to achieve that? What is the state of play and the planning of the legislative initiative? Is it also necessary to adjust screening for functions other than train drivers? I assume that the agreements within the government also apply to other critical infrastructure.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-07-54-commissie-ic761x.u96	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the person in question had a blank extract from the criminal record dated 5 January 2017. He was recruited as director of technical work trains at Infrabel on 1 February 2017. So he didn't drive a train with travelers. The course lasts just under one year. As long as someone is in training, he does not drive a train independently, but always under supervision. The internal staff regulations of the railways impose an obligation to report any criminal conviction to the employer. In the case in question, the management bodies of the railways were informed of the information via the workplace. The information was checked and the internship of the person concerned was terminated with immediate effect. Legally, SNCB, Infrabel and HR Rail can only have the information mentioned on the extracts from the criminal record provided by the municipality in connection with access to a job. This information is insufficient because it only takes account of the effective condemnation. Moreover, the government is not proactive and therefore there is no guarantee that the employer will be aware of the conviction expressed after recruitment. For these reasons, the three companies are requesting parties to a scheme allowing the screening of personnel to know whether the person was convicted, but also in a broader sense whether the person is known as dangerous in the context of terrorism. The draft law amends the law of 11 December 1998 on classification and security clearances, safety attestations and safety advice. The draft transcends the transport framework and is supported by the Prime Minister and the Ministers for the Interior, Justice, Foreign Affairs and Defence. The intention is to provide for a structure and methodology in the law to ensure that the scheme remains efficient, despite the increase in the number of applications for security verification. The design also aims to enable security verification for persons already present and not only prior to access to sensitive places or sensitive information. For further information, please refer to the ministers responsible for this dossier. For my part, I have instructed my administration to set up a working group with the representatives of the railways, but also with the National Security Authority, which is responsible for delivering the safety advice under the 1998 Act. The Working Group is currently finalising the impact analyses that will determine the types of personnel categories to be subject to in-depth screening. It is clear that train drivers will not be the only ones and that the National Security Authority will have to have sufficient resources to carry out the safety verification provided for by the law.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-07-54-commissie-ic761x.u97	Madam President, Minister, thank you for your detailed reply, which I will certainly read out in the Integrated Report. After all, you have provided a lot of information. You are talking about a blank extract from criminal records, screening and internal regulations. I think we can be pragmatic in that. One of the findings of the Committee of Inquiry into the attacks was that there are already a lot of databases, but there are no exchanges between them. I hope that will be done. I follow you when you say that there are a number of critical functions in the railways and that we should try to get the people on such a list out in advance. You said that the person in question had never drove alone, but if he had had bad intentions and drove with an escort, he would still have been able to do a lot of damage. Luckily, that didn't happen. Thank you for your answer. I am pleased that attention is being paid to it and that work is being done, but I still see room for an approach by the railway companies themselves, possibly screening the staff to recognise radicalisation. Radicalisation is not found on a criminal record, but in the minds of the people.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-07-54-commissie-ic761x.u98	Mr Minister, I thank you for the information, but I think it is important and necessary that SNCB and, above all, a certain section of SNCB, which deals with the recruitment of train drivers, should have access to the information contained in all those lists, including the OCAD list, which is not only your competence, but also that of the Minister of Justice and the Minister of the Interior, who can immediately see whether someone is classified as dangerous and can be followed up. You also said that a check-up on the appointment doesn't work. That check-up needs to be done at regular intervals, and that obviously requires an extra effort and a regular update to find out if there are people with certain intentions out there. I am also pleased to hear you say that a draft is being prepared to amend the 1998 law on security clearances. The Minister of the Interior and the Minister of Justice also argue in favour of this, but it would be good if the draft came to Parliament quickly so that we could play safe with our train drivers and by extension all our critical infrastructure and not take risks. After all, with the current procedures and legislation, society is exposed to people with evil intentions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-07-54-commissie-ic761x.u99	Madam President, Minister, in the summer of 2016, we discussed and adopted the law on various provisions on mobility in this house. One part of this was a reform of the railway companies, which would involve two independent directors on the boards of directors both at SNCB and Infrabel. These persons should comply with the conditions of independence laid down in the Company Code. Their arrival should strengthen the external perspective on the management and strategic choices of Infrabel and SNCB. During the discussion of the draft law, we welcomed this intention to include two independent directors on the board of directors. We also see this as a form of professionalisation. The law has been passed for some time now, but there is still some uncertainty about its implementation for the time being. Minister, what steps have already been taken to include the independent directors on the boards of the SNCB and Infrabel? When will they be selected and designated? What caused the delay from August 2016 to now?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-07-54-commissie-ic761x.u100	Mrs De Coninck, as far as the independent directors of Infrabel and SNCB are concerned, I can say, firstly, that among the 14 directors that Infrabel has, there are already two independent directors, namely Mrs Genoe and Mr Provost. Secondly, there are currently no independent directors among the 14 directors of SNCB. The intention is to include two independent directors at the time of the renewal of the mandates of current directors. Since there has not yet been a full renewal of the Board of Directors of SNCB since the law was adopted, no independent directors within the meaning of the Law on various provisions on mobility of 3 August 2016 could be designated. Within the Infrabel board, however, independent directors were already in place before the law came into force. This explains the different situation on both boards of directors.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-07-54-commissie-ic761x.u101	Minister, you say that these independent directors were already present at Infrabel before the law came into force. I have to look into that, because I don't think Mrs Genoe has been on the board for so long. I'm sure I'll look that up. You also say that the independent directors will not be included in the Board of Directors of SNCB until there is a renewal of the entire Board of Directors. However, that has not yet happened, and that is a pity, because nothing prevents us from carrying out the renewal. I believe that this was approved during the previous legislature and it runs until after this legislature. Now we have a chance to add two people to that in a good way, but we are failing to take that opportunity.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-07-54-commissie-ic761x.u102	Mr Cheron has the floor to put his question on infrastructure charges under European legislation (No 21066).
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-07-54-commissie-ic761x.u103	Mr President, Minister, I would have liked to postpone this question until tomorrow. Indeed, infrastructure charges are an essential issue for the general policy debate that we will have tomorrow. I therefore give the minister time to improve his response.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-07-54-commissie-ic761x.u104	Mr President, Minister, my question concerns the possible reopening of the Clabecq station in the municipality of Tubize, in the Walloon Brabant, a very beautiful and welcoming region. According to my information, Infrabel is in the process of carrying out track renewal work on the section surrounding the former Clabecq station. Why ask yourself about this? To have your point of view on a possible reopening of Clabecq's judgment in connection with an evolution in the neighbourhood. Indeed, this area around the former Clabecq stop is the subject of real estate developments. Here we are talking about the development of the former Duferco site, the well-known Brabançon metallurgy. For example, 2,000 housing units, businesses, businesses and other services are announced, which should be accessible through the best possible mobility, i.e. soft mobility and, in particular, the train. The issue of reopening the station is therefore essential. I must not apologise here for public transport to the minister responsible. Minister, do you think it is too late to incorporate this reflection into the work envisaged by Infrabel? In my view, this kind of work should be part of a medium- or even long-term vision, taking into account what might result from a completely or partially used Clabecq stoppage. Has Infrabel ever made any definitive technical choices regarding the repair of the tracks around the Clabecq station, with the possibility of including, one day, the reopening of the stop? If so, will you intervene to prevent these choices from preventing a possible reopening of the stop or station in question?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-07-54-commissie-ic761x.u105	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I welcome with you the conversion of the Duferco site, with the construction of 2 000 housing units. Today, however, is a rather special day, if we refer to what happened in Clabecq twenty years ago. Infrabel informs me that the renewal work on line 106 does not prejudice the theoretical possibility of still circulating passenger trains on this line in the future. However, this is not part of the plans, nor is it to reopen the station of Clabecq and to organise, at this station level, departures and arrivals of railway links with Brussels. But that does not compromise them. Even if that were to be the wish, SNCB referred in general to the lack of line capacity, particularly in the Nord-Midi junction, which prevented even more trains from being put into service between Halle and Brussels. The only possibility, in the present state of affairs, could be to pass the S trains linking Brussels and Braine-le-Comte through Clabecq, but this could only be done, if it were done, at the expense of serving the Tubize and H annoyancere stations. The question therefore arises as to whether such an alternative is desirable for travellers. The answer is therefore clear. The current developments do not in any way compromise the ability to make another stop at Clabecq. On the other hand, if we were to pass trains through Clabecq, it would, according to SNCB's vision, be to the detriment of Tubize and H annoyed. The whole is a matter of train supply, number of trains, etc. I'll make one last point. Switzerland is often taken as a model for railways. It should be noted that as soon as a promoter builds more than 150 housing units in one block, he or she is responsible for planning the connection by rail. This is obviously a completely different logic. We're not in this one. Do not conclude that we will ask Clabecq to ensure the connection. This is simply a little reflection on this, just as when you set up a football stadium, you need two lines of railways.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-07-54-commissie-ic761x.u106	Minister, thank you. Today, I'm positive. I note that this does not compromise. I simply regret that this is not part of the work. As far as the rest of the answer is concerned, I had already heard some argument from SNCB in the debate on the transport plan. I am not completely convinced, but I note that the closure is not complete. So I will try to come back with elements and arguments. I can hear the argument of the North-Midi junction, but it's a recurring argument. I hope that one day we will find a lasting solution to this and not just technology. And, in connection with the S offer, it is a question of checking whether this would actually be done or not at the expense of the stations you mentioned. In any case, I note that nothing is being compromised at this stage but that, unfortunately, it is not being incorporated into the work that is going to take place.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-07-54-commissie-ic761x.u107	Debates of the European Parliament 21109, 21126, 21127 and 21128 by Mr Raskin are converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-07-54-commissie-ic761x.u108	Minister, a new study by Vias (ex-IBSR) relayed by the press shows a disturbing finding for those over 65 years of age. Indeed, the Vias Institute looked at the impact of road accidents on this category of the population. The new analysis produces several worrying findings on the impact of accidents on these people. While 25 years ago, one in six people died in an accident was over 65 years old, today it is one in four people killed. In the last ten years alone, there has been a slight decline, but this is much lower than for all other road victims. I quote Vias' spokesman, Mr Godart: "A senior killed or injured in traffic on two east as a cyclist or pedestrian. Among average age users, between 35 and 64, this figure is only one in five. In general, accidents involving people over 65 are twice as serious. Killed and seriously injured persons account for 9 per cent of all victims of road accidents. Among seniors, this percentage rises to 17%." I would therefore like to ask you the following questions. What conclusions do you draw from these findings? What are the main reasons for this increase? Are you planning measures to deal with it? Are you in favour of a future mandatory driving exam for these seniors? What is your position on this subject? Will this study lead to concrete actions, projects or initiatives on your part?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-07-54-commissie-ic761x.u109	My colleague, the growing share of older people in the population is also reflected in accident statistics. While in 1992, only one in seven people killed on the road were 65 years of age or older, today we are almost one in five. In absolute numbers, however, the number of victims of fatal accidents among seniors is not particularly high. Several factors explain this increase on our roads: the ageing of the population, the increased mobility of older people and the emergence of new modes of travel, such as electric bicycles. The consequences of accidents are also heavier for seniors, who are more vulnerable because of their health, probably more fragile. I am not in favour of the introduction of a renewal of the driving licence for seniors or of a mandatory procedure for monitoring health status from a certain age. How can we determine without discrimination the age limit at which this type of obligation should begin? Furthermore, to date, no studies on the subject have shown that such measures would improve road safety. By introducing age-related selection as a control criterion, it is assumed that ageing is in itself a process that leads to an inability to drive. This is not the case automatically. Seniors often manage to compensate for their normal age-related functional limitations by adapting their behaviour to their personal possibilities. Among these age groups, there is a propensity to travel less during peak hours, in bad weather, on motorways or in situations requiring complicated manoeuvres. In my opinion, the problem is to convince drivers who have become unable to drive because of a medical condition, to stop driving. A step-by-step health control procedure, starting with self-checking followed by a doctor's opinion and up to a thorough examination, only for patients whose doctor doubts driving skills, would certainly make it possible to better manage the risks and actual needs of older drivers rather than compulsory age-related medical check-ups. I would add that good mobility of older people is also a public health issue and that a ban on driving rights for older people has consequences in terms of well-being and is likely to increase the risk of depression and related problems, including feelings of stress and isolation. Older drivers are more a danger to themselves than to other users. The number of accidents in which they are themselves victims is four times higher than the average. As a result, the prevention of accidents involving older people is based on three elements: - targeted awareness of the possible limits of their risk capabilities and guidance for safe travel as pedestrians, cyclists and by car according to the possible limits of their capabilities; - suitable infrastructures and signs: clear layouts at intersections, contrasting markings, lights at pedestrian crossings, intermediate islets when the carriageways are wide; - suitable vehicle equipment (panoramic rear-view mirror, blind angle detection system, anti-collision system). As far as road prevention and infrastructure development are concerned, the regions responsible for the latter are mainly concerned. With regard to the development of new vehicle-related technologies, my administration participates in the working group dealing with the regulation and timing of the implementation of these new technologies, both at UNICE level and at European level.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-07-54-commissie-ic761x.u110	Minister, for the whole of SNCB, there is a program called Prodlnfo that manages the whole issue of the dangerousness of the products purchased and includes a list of products authorized and validated by prevention advisors. It would appear that the programme has been out of order for months, as the person in charge of the update would have retired and no one would have followed up. This is, of course, a very serious problem. Imagine an accident with a product not included in this program! Who takes responsibility? The immediate leader? With what skills? Buyers have been facing the problem for months. Minister, do you confirm this information? How do you intend to remedy this?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-07-54-commissie-ic761x.u111	Dear colleague, within SNCB, a cell is in charge of coordinating and managing dangerous products. This unit is responsible for managing the information made available to workers. It is its responsibility to give a formal and final opinion on whether or not to allow a new hazardous product to enter the SNCB. To this end, this unit relies on the partial advice given by various services, namely occupational medicine, internal preventive and protective services at work, the environment and specialized laboratories, which is optional. These services contribute in order to be able to provide a reasoned opinion on the authorisation or refusal of dangerous products prior to their acquisition by SNCB. This information is made available to workers via the ProdInfo application. SNCB states that a project has been put in place to replace the ProdInfo application. Currently, a standard solution used by industry is under consideration. If there are any specific problems in the meantime, SNCB informs me that it deals with them on a case-by-case basis.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-07-54-commissie-ic761x.u112	Mr President, Minister, this statute was established at the time of the takeover in 2004. There is some uncertainty about the capacity of a number of staff of the former BIAC or DG Aviation. I refer to the addendum to the Royal Decree of 27 May 2004 on the conversion of Brussels International Airport Company to a public limited liability company governed by private law. The transposition took place while preserving the rights of all BIAC staff, both statutory and contractual. A private-law sui generis statute was established for statutory staff, stating in the Royal Decree that the continuity of the rights of statutory staff in the field of security of employment, financial status and pensions remains guaranteed. Staff are given the guarantee of being able to continue or complete their careers as if it had remained with the Regie der Airwegen. Today, however, it is not clear how this sui generis statute manifests itself in practice. Mr President, first of all, what is the status of an official who has been appointed to the Airway Administration and who is now working at BIAC? Secondly, can you tell us what the legal status of the statutory staff covered by a sui generis statute is? Thirdly, how are these people promoted? Do they still have a chance of promotion? How does that happen? What are the conditions and how does selection take place?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-07-54-commissie-ic761x.u113	Mrs De Coninck, the statutory employees of Brussels Airport Company have a statute as laid down in the Royal Decree of 27 May 2004 on the conversion of Brussels Airport Company into a public limited company of private law and on airports and installations. In concrete terms, they enjoy the same advantages as contractual workers. First of all, they are also covered by employment contracts and laws, subject to statutory exception, and other social legislation for which they fall within the scope described. In addition, they are also covered by the Labour Law, the Pay Protection Act, the Labour Regulations Act and so on. Secondly, the collective agreements, both national and sectoral, of the joint committee 315.03, of the undertakings, of the labour regulations, of the policies and so on. In addition, they enjoy additional rights and obligations as laid down in the Staff Regulations, Staff Regulations, the Staff Regulations and their so-called (?) of royal decrees and service notes laid down in the Royal Decree of 8 November 1998 establishing benefits referred to in Article 25 (1) (2) of the Royal Decree of 2 April 1998 reforming the management structures of Brussels National Airport. The evolutions of the royal decrees in question after the adoption of the decision, e.g. regarding leave of 1 June 1964 KB, do not apply to the statutory staff of Brussels Airport Company. The statutory employees of Brussels Airport Company retain at any time the elements of their career, degree and status reached at the time of the creation of BIAC. The promotional procedures with professional examinations apply to them but today these examinations are no longer issued as all statutory staff have already taken the step to the first degree through an examination and have become without object. The promotions are regulated today according to internal rules and conditions applicable to the totality of the BAC staff: enterprise-cao's on job classification, assessment and wage policy. The selection of staff shall also be carried out in accordance with internal rules applicable to the totality of the BAC staff.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-07-54-commissie-ic761x.u114	Minister, it is not a question of securing a job for those involved in the conversion of the Directorate-General to BIAC, but rather of their career prospects. That is why I am somewhat concerned at the end of your reply. Indeed, they retain their degree and status at the time of the creation of BIAC. However, this has already been done since May 2004. You reply that there are no more promotional examinations because they are without an object. I know that some grade 3 or level C staff have been frozen for 13 years. We can therefore regard them as statutory in some sort of forgetful pit. For Selor, too, they are no longer allowed to take part in promotional examinations of other public services. They are therefore still statutory with BIAC, but otherwise they no longer count as statutory. I regret that. However, our party has a clear position on statutory staff. The above is once again proof that at the time of the transfer those involved have retained their status, but that it means that they are no longer able to make any promotion. I repeat that they are now in a well of forgetfulness for me and no longer have a chance of promotion, which is a pity. It does not give the employees concerned the opportunity to make a career, which reduces the involvement of the employees. Anything that counteracts modern wage and labour policies applies to them. I know that, in your capacity as Minister, you have little to do with the situation. Nevertheless, I wanted to put my question in order to give an answer to those concerned.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-07-54-commissie-ic761x.u115	Minister, you probably remember the committee session on 3 October in which a number of colleagues, including Mr Van den Bergh, Mr Van Hecke and myself, asked questions about the future of Blue-mobility and specifically blue bikes. You replied that a loan of EUR 300 000 was granted and that a growth scenario would be developed, albeit more limited than the scenario that Blue-mobility itself put forward. You said that an increase to 55 000 users should be possible. It struck me that we here as Members of Parliament are asking questions and must read in a newspaper the next day or two days that SNCB wants to sell its 50% majority stake in Blue Mobility, for example to Cambio. I'm asking myself questions about the way things are going. If we ask the Minister responsible questions here in Parliament and get a completely different answer two days later, then I wonder what we are all doing here? Either you were fully briefed and gave an answer that wasn't really right anymore or you, like us, had been taken by the nose. I found that annoying, especially in the context of our right of scrutiny as Members of Parliament. Later in her explanatory statement, Mrs Dutordoir told Parliament that SNCB did not have the vocation to manage a fleet of bicycles and that they would be rejected. At that time I referred to the Dutch example. However, intermodality has created a growth scenario for the Dutch Railways. That is why I would like to ask you this follow-up question today. Were you aware at the time of the previous committee session that SNCB wanted to sell its majority stake? If so, why wasn't that said here? Do you share Mrs Dutordoir's view that SNCB does not have the right to manage a fleet of bicycles? Are we going effectively towards a transfer to Cambio, in which De Lijn also has an interest, or are there other possibilities? Has the Dutch example of the OV-kaart been studied with the integration of bicycles and parkings, among other things, can be integrated into our current train subscriptions?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-07-54-commissie-ic761x.u116	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, SNCB must make choices. I can only encourage the choice made by SNCB not to want to operate a bicycle park. SNCB and its branch B-Parking are indeed first and foremost committed to their core business and this does not include the management of a bicycle park. That is why SNCB wishes to withdraw from Blue Mobility. However, SNCB will continue to pay attention to maintaining a strong supply of intermodal products and services in its stations. A capital increase is one of the slopes, but other models have also been developed. There is also talk with other parties. As for any specific activity in which the commercial market is active, it is not appropriate to disclose detailed information. Opportunities for promotion and integrated tickets are being examined. Blue bike expects its customers to be able to use their MOBIB card to extract a blue bike. Customers will be able to load their train subscription, parking subscription and blue bike subscription on their card. MOBIB will thus be the ideal intermodal card.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-07-54-commissie-ic761x.u117	Mr President, I would like to thank the Minister for his reply. Mr President, on my first question, whether you knew about the majority stake on 3 October, I did not receive an answer. Whether or not we've been taken by the nose together, that's what it's always guessing about. You're talking about the core business of B-Parking. You explain the vision. However, the reasoning could be continued. In the same logic, SNCB could also dispose of all car parks or relocate them to another branch. It is, of course, positive that there will be an integrated map, including through MOBIB, which integrates pre- and post-transport.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-07-54-commissie-ic761x.u118	Mr Minister, this is again a question about statutory versus contractual matters, but now one for which you are competent and which you can do something about. As you know, the summer agreement of this federal government agreed that priority should be given to contractual recruitment, with a few exceptions. This agreement applies to new recruitments. This offers all kinds of advantages, such as greater flexibility. Contractual recruitment was already possible with the railways, but in 2016 they accounted for only 30% of the number of recruitments. Often they were employees who were not eligible for statutory appointments. In view of the fact that federal officials are now recruited on a contractual basis, it is natural that this should also be extended to the railways. More contractual recruitment on the railways would enable a more dynamic workforce policy on the railways. I have the following questions for you, Minister. Would you confirm that the agreements on contractual recruitment also apply to new recruitments on the railways? When will you make a royal decision to apply this effectively?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-07-54-commissie-ic761x.u119	Ladies and gentlemen, as you rightly said, the Council of Ministers agreed in its Summer Agreement to a thorough reform of public office. This agreement provides that this reform also applies to public undertakings and therefore to the railway group. Those who talk about reform rightly talk about the need for modernisation. The railway group must be prepared for the complete liberalisation of the rail market, which is due to arrive by 2023. Within the legal framework laid down for this purpose, it will depend only on the performance of the services provided and on the necessary modernisation, whether SNCB can remain the beneficiary of an additional period of 10 years from the direct award of its public service contracts. The modernisation of personnel policy should form part of a broader set of initiatives. This broader set of measures includes those already developed to increase productivity in order to take account of government-decided policies. These are measures designed to encourage management to recognise business processes in which the quality of service to passengers is central. In addition to the measures to improve management, other measures have been taken which contribute to the modernisation of the railway group. For example, there is my recent initiative to ensure the provision of services in the event of strikes, but also the decision to organise social elections. However, in order to come to the concrete conclusion of the Summer Agreement with the railway group, I consulted the delegated directors and the general director of HR Rail. This consultation has shown that statutory employment does not always meet the needs of a modern staff policy and that other forms of employment have proved or been appropriate in the field. Today there is already a contractual employment in the railway group. Recent figures up to mid-October show me that this year of the 1 897 recruitments 202 employees were recruited on the basis of a contract of employment. This is 10.6 %. For those functions which may be difficult to fulfil, it is therefore appropriate to examine whether the statutory conditions of employment in force are the most appropriate. For other functions, training and training may be more decisive and it may therefore be more appropriate to opt for statutory employment. Further research by the companies seems to me to be necessary here in order to arrive at the right decision. In preparation for concrete measures to implement the Summer Agreement, I have already asked the companies to compare the cost of statutory and contractual employment not only for the years of activity but also for the years of retirement. It is important to have a view of this both from the point of view of the government, of the company as an employer and of the person concerned. Where contractual employment is to be chosen, it must be a reasoned and thought-out choice. It cannot be about simply shutting down the Staff Regulations. Finally, I would like to draw attention to the fact that the Council of Ministers is clear in its decision, in particular that statutory staff will retain their status throughout their career and that this statute will continue to apply in the event of promotion or transfer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-07-54-commissie-ic761x.u120	Thank you, Minister, for your detailed reply. You confirm, as was my view, that public undertakings are also covered by the Summer Agreement and that the principle of not doing statutory recruitment is also applied to railway undertakings. If you were to come up with a royal decision, I hope this will be applied effectively, because you are also talking about other possible modernisations in the railway staff. We welcome that, but the past has taught us that these negotiations do not always go smoothly. When we wanted to implement productivity-enhancing measures, we had a lot of strikes, with a lot of chaos on the trail. You are authorized to issue your own royal decree, and I look forward to that. You also mentioned additional studies, in order to assess the cost of contractual statutes and make a well-thought-out decision. That is somewhat understandable. Nevertheless, we must not lose sight of the fact that it is only about new recruitments. So no current staff member would lose anything from his or her statute. I repeat that the N-VA sees no reason to wait a long time for all kinds of studies and for all kinds of measures that can be added. For us, the measure can be introduced as soon as possible. Thanks for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-07-54-commissie-ic761x.u121	Mr Minister, I have two follow-up questions because I find the budgetary nature of the two dossiers so striking. A first question concerns the termination of the DICE departure procedure (Departure In a Controlled Environment) following the procedure AVG (Designors Operations Done). At the last meeting, you said that EUR 11 million had already been spent for this purpose and that some 10 employees of SNCB have been working on the project in the last two years. After your last answer, of course, the question arises as to why it took so long to pull the plug. Of course, you are not responsible for that yourself, but I was hoping that you could interply with society about this. Minister, how many mixed working groups have there been between SNCB and Infrastructure? How many external consultants are involved and what was their cost? How many internal employees are involved in this? What was the participation of train escorts and train drivers, the employees on the ground? How many times was the DICE procedure discussed on the Management Committee and when? Haven't there been any signs in the meantime that procedure wouldn't work? Why have people waited so long to stop the procedure? Were there any signals before, so that the invoice would not have risen to EUR 11 million? Then I come to my other follow-up question. The new NDS (New Distribution System) ticket information system was also discontinued. The system was managed by the IT branch Ypto and would have cost as much as 30 million euros since the beginning of 2012 according to De Tijd and L'Echo. Others contradict that amount. Hence my question. It is good that the CEO in her speech in Parliament was very critical of long-term projects and that she wants results to be achieved. We agree that priority should be given to systems that benefit both travellers and staff, but how is it that this has only just come to light? Have no signals been given to the Management Committee before? First of all, when was the decision made to give the project to Ypto? Second, how many people have been working on it at Ypto? Thirdly, how much is actually spent on the NDS? What will happen to the remaining budget? Fourthly, how much and when has it been reported to the Management Committee? Fifthly, why weren't critical evaluations made earlier? Sixthly, who carried out the study or evaluation on the functioning or non-functioning of the NDS? Seventh, are there any penalty clauses for SNCB for the early termination of the project? Eight, what were the main comments of the study and what system will be used now? I know that these are very specific questions, but perhaps that will allow me to carry out my parliamentary scrutiny.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-07-54-commissie-ic761x.u122	As regards the termination of the DICE departure procedure, SNCB informs me that there was a steering committee with members of Infrabel. In addition, there were several mixed meetings between SNCB and Infrabel. Between February 2008 and June 2013, two external consultants and from then on one consultant participated in the project. The cost of this is €2.2 million. A total of 20 employees were involved at some point in time. The number of ten employees, which I gave you, was the number of employees who cooperated on a permanent basis in the project. Train escorts and train drivers have also participated, both in the risk analysis and on-site testing. The project was discussed six times in the Management Committee between 2014 and today, mainly during the past year. The shortcomings of the system have become apparent very late. DICE was only ripe to be tested in labs in the last few months and thus to have a good view of its functioning. That revealed crucial flaws in the system. That insight accompanied by an audit of the technical solutions led to the conclusion that DICE would not be reliable enough and the punctuality would deteriorate. The management of SNCB assured me that it has therefore taken its responsibility. SNCB also informs me that it is working on an alternative that can ensure the maximum safety of its passengers and train attendants and is suitable for all operating systems that can be used in the future. The possibilities envisaged will be simpler. In addition, SNCB considers it premature to estimate the additional costs of a new system. In any event, the specifications provide for the removal of grey areas. SNCB further states that the new solution will, in any case, be less complex and will also be developed in close cooperation with field staff. The duration of the development will depend on the configuration that will be chosen. The aim is to be able to test the new starting procedure in the course of 2019 and to run it at the end of the same year. In connection with the new distribution system, SNCB informs me that the concept of the new sales system was relevant when it was drawn up in 2013. However, the complexity was probably underestimated. SNCB adds that, on the other hand, information technology has evolved very strongly and the customer's digital needs are now much greater than in 2013. SNCB lets me know that it does not risk fines because there is no third party to the contract. An important element in this file was that the company SAP announced in 2016 that it will no longer support the current software modules from 2025. In the view of SNCB, it is therefore absurd to build a new sales system on a platform that will no longer be supported in a few years' time. This type of management decision belongs to the management of an autonomous public undertaking. It is also up to him to assume the consequences in full autonomy. You heard Mrs. Dutordoir calling for more autonomy. In my view, the company must be given the opportunity to make such choices. This is a choice of courage and not hidden choices. As the appropriate minister, I would like to reiterate the importance of SNCB and Infrabel applying principles of good management. It is their responsibility to manage their assets as a good father, in compliance with their commitments and the various regulations applicable to them.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-07-54-commissie-ic761x.u123	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I didn't get an answer to my specific questions about Ypto. However, I think that is precisely where the problem lies. Because I'm doing an analysis from the past. subsidiaries were set up, specifically with the aim, for example, of paying external consultants much more than the baremas in force at the time. I regret that you did not go into that aspect further, because it has been the subject of discussion for many years and several audits have been carried out. As a Member of Parliament, I still wish to exercise my right of control. The company SNCB creates subsidiaries, but if it subsequently becomes apparent that the system is not working, the invoice will be transferred back to the parent company SNCB. We do not have any control over this money, which is intended for public services. That is why I am asking you this question. I will try to find out exactly what the situation is, because I think there is a fundamental problem. I respect SNCB's decision-making autonomy; that is not what the debate is about. I think it would be a good idea for the CEO to explain that system.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-07-54-commissie-ic761x.u124	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-07-54-commissie-ic761x.u125	My question concerns the subsidiary, where the activities of which the invoice expires fail and after which the invoice is returned to SNCB.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-07-54-commissie-ic761x.u126	The incident is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-07-54-commissie-ic761x.u127	Madam President, my question No. 21181, which is very technical, I will turn into a written question. That also gives the other fellow Members the opportunity to ask their questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-07-54-commissie-ic761x.u128	Madam Chair, Minister, I will summarize my three questions about Park & Ride. Unfortunately, I do not know a French name for this structure. Louvain-la-Neuve Park & Ride is a major mobility issue for modal transfer. We know the problems of congestion around Brussels. This Park & Ride project in Louvain-la-Neuve is 2,338 places, which is huge; it is a budget of 40 million euros. There was an early opening following the problems of closing the Herrmann-Debroux viaduct. Minister, my first question concerns the necessary access ramp from the E411, highway that you are familiar with. The Louvain-la-Neuve Park & Ride project is linked to a direct connection that would pass under National 4. This is not the case today. I have some concern, but you will surely reassure me, because now you have a lot of friends in Namur. Things have moved. The revolution is in progress. On October 10, the Walloon minister in charge of the case, answering a question I had asked from one of my friends – I still have a few in the Wallonia Parliament – said: "I will do everything possible to make this work happen." Yes, but it was the press that told us that a budget of 10.7 million euros had been found and that the SPW had launched a public procurement. Minister, do you, or does the SNCB, in its autonomy, which you recall very timelyly on some occasions, have any clarifications as to whether, in early 2018, the work of the strap could, or could not, begin? My second question relates to what you perceived from the operation. I congratulate you, Minister, for doing this in a weekend, after the closure of the Herrmann-Debroux viaduct. I think the public authorities have done their job of proposing an alternative. But, minister, that didn't have a significant effect. A journalist on Monday morning in the parking lot spotted 80 cars, without even being sure that all contained people intending to take the train afterwards. There may even have been a boon effect on students a little smarter than others. We know the problem of the price of parking in Louvain-la-Neuve. This raises the question of the success of this Park & Ride. Is it becoming a new "unnecessary work"? Would there not be a need on the part of SNCB or other actors to make this modal shift better known and to promote it? Would it not be appropriate to ensure that we have, beyond the best offer via the S offer, a greater number of trains leaving regularly from Louvain-la-Neuve to Brussels, and not necessarily with a descent and a break in the load at Ottignies? My third question concerns tariffs. Some have mentioned the existence of a very preferential exclusive tariff, including for persons who do not have a transport document, which surprises me. The press quotes an amount of 2 euros per day. Is it true that a public investment of 40 million, initially intended to increase the number of train users and promote modal shift, is now becoming a system in which other categories of people benefit at reduced rates for other uses? How could he be justified? We have here an infrastructure created according to the will of modal shift. With no other elements at my disposal, I would therefore like to ask you also about the issue of tariffs. Here, minister, I tried to synthesize my three questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-07-54-commissie-ic761x.u129	Minister, I am not going to add any more, since my questions are almost identical to those asked by Mr Cheron. Like him, I welcome the opportunity that has been offered to motorists to park in the parking lot of Louvain-la-Neuve. However, one may wonder that, unfortunately, the Park & Ride has remained empty. Without drawing too early a conclusion, the question of its attractiveness can be asked. One of the problems is, of course, that posed by the famous strap that needs to be built. It has been reported to me that work could begin in 2018. Do you confirm this information? Do you have any idea the timing of the work, as my colleague has already asked? Has suitable access been provided for persons with reduced mobility who would like to park their car in the new parking lot and take the train? Finally, can you tell me what rates will be charged there?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-07-54-commissie-ic761x.u130	Colleagues, this is an important issue. Maybe I'll disappoint you in part, but I think some information will surprise you. Mr Cheron, with regard to your first question concerning access to the Park & Ride in Louvain-la-Neuve, SNCB informs me that it is not in a position to comment on the intentions of the Walloon government, with which it has not had any contact, just like me. However, I will have one in the next few minutes. It tells me that, as planned, it has built a 2,277-seat parking space reserved for commuters - the largest in the country. It has been operational since October 16. It also confirms that everything has been planned to integrate the access road to be traced by the SPW. Next, with regard to the attractiveness of Park & Ride, SNCB informs me that its low attendance in its early days is probably due to the following reasons. First of all, the habits of motorists are tenuous. The short-term closure of the Herrmann-Debroux viaduct has not led to any change in behaviour, even among users who reside next to the stations concerned: Genval, La Hulpe, Rixensart. In addition, many people had already arranged for themselves during the strike on Tuesday, 10 October, and extended them to Monday. I think it's a reality. Employers have also exceptionally authorized telework. This observation was also made on roads where the announced traffic jam disaster did not occur, either on the axis in question or on other roads. The other initiatives of our colleagues in transport companies have also been more than timidly successful. With regard to the arrangements that SNCB will make to publicize the Park & Ride, SNCB informs me that an intense press campaign has taken place around the closure of the Herrmann-Debroux viaduct. The general public was therefore aware of the existence of a parking lot at the Louvain-la-Neuve station. More targeted communication is underway in stations where parking is saturated, such as in Ottignies. On the other hand, it is convinced that the construction of the direct access road under the N4 will undoubtedly be a key element in the intermodal attractiveness of the parking lot at the Louvain-la-Neuve station. This liaison is indispensable. In addition, SNCB strengthens its train offer from 10 December. Do you know that we are adding thirteen new trains to Louvain-la-Neuve during all peak hours and that four trains per hour will travel to Ottignies instead of three at present, two of which will continue live to Brussels? This new offer will make it easier to reach both Ottignies and Brussels at the start of the new parking lot in Louvain-la-Neuve less than 30 minutes from the large belt (Etterbeek station) and 40 minutes from the European quarter (Schumann station). I can tell you that this is half the time it takes to get into Brussels at rush hour, in the morning by car. As for the possible short- and medium-term improvements in terms of attractiveness of the Louvain-la-Neuve – Brussels route, SNCB considers that the current service offered at Louvain-la-Neuve station is already satisfactory. Nevertheless, she remains attentive to the demands and expectations of commuters and tries to anticipate them, whenever possible. In the short term, an additional offer in two-wheeled parking will be offered. For your question about the Park & Ride rates in Louvain-la-Neuve, you will find in the appendix the different formulas as well as the rates charged for access to it. SNCB informs me that information on the existence of a preferential tariff, including for persons without a ticket, is incorrect. Only commuters benefit from a preferential fare on the basis of a subscription or train ticket. The rates offered to non-travellers are higher than the rates charged in the shopping centre next door. A night pass is, however, offered to the residents because the parking lot is deserted by the commuters at that time. Finally, Mr Crusnière, with regard to your questions about the work itself, the SNCB unfortunately cannot answer them because they must be carried out by the Walloon Region. At the end of June, the SPW issued the pre-information notice for the construction of access roads at Park & Ride. To date, there has not been a contract publication involving the contractor. SNCB interviewed the Brabant Wallon Roads Directorate at the end of June 2017 to obtain plans and planning for the project, but has not yet received a response.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-07-54-commissie-ic761x.u131	Minister, thank you for your answers. I note the fundamental strategic interest of this access from E411. An ecologist who wants a road is quite rare, but I think it's vital here! We're really at the heart of the modal shift. This is a major interest and I think we will relay this question to the Walloon parliamentarians to see what is really happening. If we can incorporate Mr Crusnière's request, it is fundamental in other aspects. I'm reassured about the fare. The modal shift is primarily to favour commuters, those who have a transport ticket. It must not become a boon effect for one or the other large surface that I am not going to mention. Minister, I heard that SNCB had benefited from the Herrmann-Debroux effect in terms of advertising for Park & Ride. I think we will have to reason a little more broadly, beyond more targeted campaigns, because the essential issue, as we all know, is corporate cars. One day, we will still have to ask ourselves the real and right questions about this tax advantage. I was again recently given a presentation on the basis of a graph of the geographical origin of those who benefit most from the company car system. It's enlightening! It's really the big Brabant! Minister, we can see very well what the situation is and it is not surprising that the journey to your office takes more and more time. It is therefore to help you yourself to help us promote Park & Ride!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-07-54-commissie-ic761x.u132	Minister, thank you for your answers. We obviously had no clarification of the work. Like my colleague, I will turn to my colleagues in the Walloon Region for clarification, because I think it is a crucial project in terms of attractiveness. At present, without the use of this car park, at peak hours, there are already traffic jams at the exit of Louvain-la-Neuve. If this is to work, this strap must be built as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-07-54-commissie-ic761x.u133	Don't forget one thing. The RER is not the train. The RER is the whole thing. You will have noticed that the train offer planned for December is an investment whose usefulness is likely to be reduced almost to nothing if there is no radial transport bringing people to the stations.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-07-54-commissie-ic761x.u134	Madam President, Minister, you are aware that the maintenance of rail vehicles and their components represents expertise and skilled jobs with high added value for SNCB. However, there is a fear among workshop workers that this activity will gradually disappear from the SNCB trades. Competition from countries with weaker social requirements coupled with the adoption of new European standards that promote worker mobility raise concerns about the outsourcing of workshop activities in a context of social dumping. In other words, privatization. This fear is particularly true at the Cuesmes workshop where, of course, the workload is still in the medium term but not beyond. The number of workers has declined particularly in recent years, although the quality of the work provided has never been called into question. Workers are concerned when they see investments made in other workshops, particularly in the north of the country. And the announcement by the press, in the newspaper L'Echo of this Friday 13 October, of the forthcoming arrival of a new Dutch-speaking technical director is not to reassure them. Minister, what are the government's intentions for the future of SNCB's workshops? Is the aim to retain as many qualified jobs as possible in Belgium and the SNCB? Or do you intend to encourage the outsourcing and thus the privatization of these activities? What are the long-term intentions of SNCB and the government for the Cuesmes workshop? How do you intend to ensure, in the long term, an equitable distribution of the workload between the North and the South of the country?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-07-54-commissie-ic761x.u135	Colleagues, the maintenance of rolling stock is part of SNCB's core missions and, as part of the business plan under development, a number of actions are planned to improve the performance of this activity in terms of availability, reliability of equipment and cost. The objective is to make this activity competitive with similar maintenance services offered by external companies, and to prepare SNCB for the opening of the national passenger transport market by providing it with an efficient and cost-effective maintenance service, while respecting safety requirements. It should be noted that certain specific technical contracts are concluded with original manufacturers in order to ensure the maintenance and/or repair of various equipment such as electronic components for example. The Cuesmes workshop is currently in the process of revising the M6 cars and will undertake the revision of the M5 cars from 2019 onwards. No closures are envisaged and the evolution of central workshop loads beyond 2023 will be the subject of an overall analysis taking into account the maintenance cycle of the equipment and the evolution of the park. A fair distribution of the workload between the various workshops is defined according to needs, transport plan, maintenance policy, cost-effectiveness and social aspects. For example, in the current context of economic growth, SNCB informs me that it is in the interest of maintaining workshops in different locations to facilitate recruitment. Yesterday, I visited a workshop where thirty jobs were vacant. This is the fourth call made by its officials, and only three candidates ran for the 30 seats. I hear your fear, knowing that other Members have already expressed it for many years, but Cuesmes is still there – and well there.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-07-54-commissie-ic761x.u136	Mrs Grovonius, you can reply. That's why I'm asking you the question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-07-54-commissie-ic761x.u137	Minister, thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-07-54-commissie-ic761x.u138	Mrs Caprasse's two questions Nos. 21248 and 21249 are transformed into written questions, as well as my two questions Nos. 21334 and 21341.
