ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-30-54-commissie-ic677x.u1	Mr President, Minister, on 8 May last, the RTBF website relayed information according to which all Belgian prisons would be equipped with the digital platform "Prison Cloud" by the end of 2018. Several such systems already exist in Belgian prisons at the present time and it is logical to ask questions about their use and the costs involved. So let me ask you, Minister, the following questions. What is the cost of installing and starting the platform per prison? Under what criteria did you establish the order in which prisons would be equipped? From a security point of view, do you not fear a diversion of the primary functions of the platform by the inmates?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-30-54-commissie-ic677x.u2	Mr President, Mrs Özen, as mentioned in my Justice Plan, this project, coupled with cell phone wiring, will help to lay the foundations for secure and controlled ICT services for detainees. While this will eventually lead to the integration of digital platforms in all prisons, the priority remains to provide in-cell telephones quickly to inmates. It is this stage that will be reached by the end of 2018, when all prisons have been wired and the public procurement contract has been awarded and put in place. With regard to the digital platform "Prison Cloud", it is currently equipping three establishments (Leuze-en-Hainaut, Marche-en-Famenne and Beveren), which already benefit from this cellular telephony and will therefore not be affected by this new market. The cost of installing such a platform varies depending on the size of the facility and the pre-existing computer facilities. It is therefore impossible to give an advance price per establishment. With regard to the installation of "Prison Cloud" in the above-mentioned prisons, it was primarily a matter of taking advantage of our state-of-the-art infrastructure to test such a system and see what benefits it could bring in terms of normalization of detention. A concrete schedule for a global extension has yet to be established. From a safety point of view, the system is quite reliable. Only one function had been problematic and had allowed the sending of an e-mail, but no replies could be sent to that e-mail. We have since secured this service so that access to the secure digital landscape no longer allows this type of one-way shipment. We have therefore benefited usefully from these first experiences.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-30-54-commissie-ic677x.u3	Minister, thank you. You say you do not know the exact cost, that it changes according to the state of progress of the facilities per prison, but do you have any idea of the overall cost for all prisons?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-30-54-commissie-ic677x.u4	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-30-54-commissie-ic677x.u5	Mr President, Minister, today I want to ask you about the situation of thousands of our fellow citizens who are compulsive players. Whether they are managers, workers, men, women, young people, quincagénaires or pensioners, they have fallen into the trap of gambling dependence. These situations have adverse social, economic and psychological consequences, not only for dependent people, but also for their families and children. As a mayor, I sometimes meet families, people who are suffering from this kind of situation. According to information recently published in the press, a compulsive player brought an action against the state. He claims €65,000 in damages because he was on the blacklist of the gambling commission and nevertheless had access to online games. The complainant, a 30-year-old Brusselsian, has been on the blacklist of the gambling commission since 2011. It is known that anyone on this list can no longer have access to a playroom, nor can they register on online gambling sites. The man, however, got back to playing and was able to easily access online betting sites between November 2015 and February 2016. Minister, while this person is on the blacklist of the gambling commission, how is it possible that he or she could have had access to online games? What controls are exercised on online betting sites or playrooms? How do you envisage in the future to deny compulsive players access to gambling? I'd like to understand the workings of the system. Do other public authorities manage blacklists? What staff does the gambling commission currently have to carry out its tasks? How is the coordination between the Ministry of Justice, of which you are responsible, and the gambling commission going? What cases or findings does the Game of Chance Commission keep the FPS Justice informed? In general, in addition to the checks carried out by comparing the personal data of the players on the blacklist of civil status data, what measures are being taken to limit such incidents? Finally, Minister, are you considering, with your colleagues, a campaign to raise awareness of this type of addiction among the general public?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-30-54-commissie-ic677x.u6	Mr. Chair, Mr. Kir, there are numerous controls on online and licensed betting sites. The gambling commission monitors whether the operator has physical activity in Belgium with a server on the national territory and provides transparency in the flow of money. A complainant can contact her via a single e-mail. The prohibition on compulsive players is made by computer systems. The Games of Chance Commission manages two databases. This is the EPIS bank, containing the excluded persons of the games and the E-GAME bank, containing the profiles of the online players. The EPIS bank is directly consulted by casinos and gambling rooms to verify whether or not a player can enter the establishment. The E-GAME bank is consulted to check whether or not the player can play online based on their profile. At the end of 2016, all the old games bans were checked in mass and their data adapted in the E-GAME bank. It is at the level of player profiles that fraud remains possible when false data is entered against the correct data of the EPIS database. An adaptation of the Commission's and operators' software is necessary in this respect in order to further increase the effectiveness of controls. Currently, the national registry number of new players can only be checked in packages twice a year. I envisage that the link between the national register and the application for registration will now be made immediately in real time. The gambling committee will shortly be introducing a budget file so that this objective can be achieved. An amount of EUR 80,000 per year will be required. The EPIS bank is powered by several other databases that contain data from people excluded from the game: police, data bank of persons in collective debt settlement, Ministry of Justice, justices of peace. Prohibited persons may be volunteers, persons placed in collective debt settlement, persons in respect of whom a procedure for the appointment of a provisional administrator is introduced. Interested third parties may also apply for a ban. It should be noted that police officers, magistrates, bailiffs and notaries cannot access the game, i.e. a total of almost 300,000 people. Access is only possible for players over 21 years of age for casino and playroom games, and 18 years for bets. The average number of applications for voluntary exclusion is 40 per day. They must be processed manually and entered into the computer system. The treatment of exclusions, contacts with citizens in distress, consultation with the player support centres and the holding of information sessions are carried out by a section of the secretariat dedicated to the protection of players. The coordination between my firm and the gambling commission is close. Since the issue of player identification has been on the agenda, my full support has been given to the budget authorization files. The identification is under way. Spontaneously and regularly, the gambling committee shall inform the representatives of the competent ministers of the progress of the work. Pilot projects are in the evaluation phase. The identification of Belgian players should be completed by the end of this year. In order to ensure better protection of vulnerable people and to combat money laundering, I plan to extend EPIS and E-GAME to betting operators in the near future.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-30-54-commissie-ic677x.u7	Minister, I did not have an answer to the question concerning the person concerned. He was on the Commission's blacklist at his request, but he was able to access games when he was not allowed to do so. You did not answer that question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-30-54-commissie-ic677x.u8	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-30-54-commissie-ic677x.u9	You're here to answer! I'm not going to do it for you! There must be an explanation. You handled this case with your services! Mr Geens, I am addressing you, not your collaborator! You process the file; why don't you answer the questions? You are asked a question; you may be kind enough to answer it! There's someone on the blacklist of the gambling commission, who's not allowed to play games. This person takes action against you, against the Belgian State and claims 65,000 euros. The question before you is: what control has been exercised over this situation? Or what are the elements you can give us in terms of response? If that is the whole interest you have in people who are in difficulty, I find it deplorable!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-30-54-commissie-ic677x.u10	Mr. Kir,...
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-30-54-commissie-ic677x.u11	Answer the question! If that is what you are paying attention to people who are in trouble, suffering! This person is on the blacklist. I ask you a simple question: why have the controls not been exercised in this particular case? What happened, minister? We'll come back.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-30-54-commissie-ic677x.u12	Mr President, Minister, the Belgian State has just been condemned by the European Court of Human Rights (ECHR), which had received a complaint in December 2008 for failure to investigate a case of rape. The complainant had denounced the dismissal of her complaint against her assailant for acts that would go back to 1996 and 1998. In its judgment, the Court held that - I quote - "in view of the State's obligation to conduct an effective investigation, the authorities should have used, as soon as possible, all the possibilities available to them to shed light on the facts and, where appropriate, to establish the circumstances of the alleged rape and indecent assaults, as soon as the complaint was lodged." However, the Court found that this was not the case. Finally, the Belgian State was ordered to pay the applicant the sums of EUR 20 000 for moral damage and EUR 13 000 for costs and expenses. Notwithstanding the respect for the separation of powers to which we are obviously attached and the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights, I would nevertheless like to ask you the following questions. What lessons have been learned as a result of this conviction? What measures are already in place to strengthen the handling of complaints of rape and indecent assaults? Finally, according to the information at your disposal, can you tell us whether the Belgian State is currently being tried for other comparable cases?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-30-54-commissie-ic677x.u13	Mr Calomne, as Minister of Justice, I am particularly attentive to the fight against sexual violence. The B.V. decision which gave rise to the conviction of Belgium by the European Court of Human Rights concerns facts dating back to the late 1990s. In the meantime, various measures have already been taken to improve the handling of complaints of rape and indecent assault. I am thinking in particular of recent important measures such as the Sexual Crimes Manual, which sets out a framework for police officers to deal with such complaints. Ensuring quality reception is essential for victims and for the monitoring of the complaint by the authorities. In addition, several pilot projects will be launched to improve this reception, one of which concerns the creation of three reference centres for victims: one in Flanders, one in Brussels and one in Wallonia. My objective is to improve the reception of the victim by centralizing all the services concerned within a single centre with a multidisciplinary team: medical, psychosocial, scientific, legal and police experts. The judgment is final only within three months of its delivery. We therefore have until 2 August to consider the possibility of bringing an application for referral to the Grand Chamber. In the meantime, we analyse the stoppage with all the services concerned. The Court has not referred us to comparable applications, on the understanding that we are informed only of applications which are admissible at first sight. We do not have a view of all the applications brought before the Court against Belgium. You will understand that it is not possible for me, within the time frame for answering an oral question, to request updated figures on the number of complaints and their follow-up from the College of Attorneys General or the police services. However, figures obtained from the police and prosecutors'offices have already been provided on several occasions, also with regard to the number of convictions. In this regard, I refer to the answer to Senator Anne Brusseel's written question 6-737. With regard to the resolution of the Committee on Social Emancipation and certain stumbling blocks that require legislative initiatives, I refer to the work under way in the committee responsible for the reform of the Criminal Code and the Code of Criminal Investigation. In addition, a range of measures have already been taken within the framework of the national action plan to combat all forms of gender-based violence. As part of the evaluation of this action plan, possible new strategic initiatives will be considered in the light of the recommendations of the Commission for Social Empowerment.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-30-54-commissie-ic677x.u14	I thank the Minister for his response and for the various initiatives that he has mentioned, which actually tend to meet the objective of better accompanying victims of both rape and indecent assault. We will, of course, remain attentive to the development of this particular issue. I also take note of the fact that at this stage, and according to the information in your possession, there is no other case before the European Court of Human Rights, which is rather reassuring for the state of our justice.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-30-54-commissie-ic677x.u15	Question No 18349 by Mrs Jadin is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-30-54-commissie-ic677x.u16	Minister, according to the law of 20 December 2002, supervision by the FPS Economy is limited to the so-called collection agencies and not to lawyers and bailiffs. In the event of alleged irregularities by those professions, the consumer cannot therefore turn to an independent complaint body, but must refer the consumer to the disciplinary authorities of the respective professions. Practice has shown that this does not always lead to satisfactory solutions. On 9 May, I put an oral question to Deputy Prime Minister Peeters and he replied: "The supervision of bailiffs and lawyers is governed by the Court's Code. It does not seem appropriate to me that the FPS Economy should, by way of derogation, exercise special supervision. In any event, the matter in question falls within the competence of the Minister for Justice. Mr President, first of all, are you aware of this situation? Secondly, are you considering taking initiatives in this area? Thirdly, what possibilities do you see for an independent complaint body to intervene in such cases?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-30-54-commissie-ic677x.u17	Mrs Lambrecht, I am aware of the division of competence between the Minister for Justice and the Minister for Economic Affairs. I would like to point out that a citizen who has a complaint about the conduct of a court bailiff can appeal to the disciplinary authorities of the National Court of Justice bailiffs if he considers that disciplinary sanctions would have been appropriate. The legal disciplinary body that decides on the file is indeed composed of bailiffs and externals. A complaint to the public prosecutor for the same purpose is also possible. Such complaints can, of course, only lead to disciplinary sanctions. If, in a specific case, a citizen wishes to intervene independently in his specific case because he or she has suffered a disadvantage due to the wrong conduct of the bailiff, he or she may always address the Federal Ombudsman. In addition, he can always seek first-line legal advice. Because many problems arise from ignorance of the judicial proceedings, the legal service of the National Chamber of Court Bailiffs is available to the citizen by telephone and by e-mail to answer his questions for information. In my draft law on legal professions, which I hope I will be able to submit to Parliament and the government in the autumn, I will pay particular attention to the obligation to provide information to the bailiffs and to the disciplinary proceedings.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-30-54-commissie-ic677x.u18	Thank you, Minister, for your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-30-54-commissie-ic677x.u19	Mr Minister, since the entry into force of the Family Court Act on 1 September 2014, the minor has the right to be heard by the judge in matters of concern to him, such as the exercise of parental authority, the residence regime and the right to personal contact. Minors from 12 years of age are informed by the court of their right to be heard and of the fact that they can refuse to do so. An information form shall be sent to the minor for that purpose. Minors under 12 years of age do not receive an information form, but may be heard in certain cases. Through a KB of 23 August 2014, a model of this information form was published worldwide. The OVB criticized this form that it had been drawn up in a language that was difficult to understand and as such has not been adapted. Another criticism that is sometimes heard is that the young person who wants to be heard has to tick the box. They say it might be better to opt out instead of opt-in. I recently learned that a new model of the information form would soon be published in a more understandable language for young people. There would also be an accompanying letter for the parents. Mr Minister, is it true that there is a new model of information form in the making? Was the Children's Rights Commissariat involved in the formatting of this? Or has this been prepared in cooperation with other actors? Is it true that an accompanying letter for the parents will be locked in? Will it still have to be ticked or will a different method be used?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-30-54-commissie-ic677x.u20	Mr President, Minister, I agree with Mrs Lahaye-Battheu. Indeed, your 2017 policy plan states that the Working Group on Family Law would draw up or draw up a new notice of invocation that would also be tested by minors. In an earlier question about the same time in 2016, I had already suggested that you design a uniform model that could be used in the same way in all family courts. After all, the current model or letter of call now differs from court to court. The procedure is also rather cumbersome. Now an information form is sent to the minor. The child must indicate whether or not he wishes to be heard by the juvenile or family judge. It should return the form within eight days. Only subsequently shall the minor receive a notice of call stating the date and time on which he or she will be invited and heard. That M.O. got criticized pretty quickly. You've heard that criticism, too. The working group has been started for a while. I believe that the first meeting took place on 29 February 2016. That is why I have the following questions. How were the minors' reactions to the new model of call-in letter? Will the family courts be obliged to use the new convocation model? You have already announced enlargement for children under the age of 12, which is currently not legally established. You are thinking of a legal basis. Has anything concrete been done in this area? Can you explain the content of the new model? Has it been made more uniform, as requested? Has the procedure been simplified? That will save the clerk's work and money because he or she does not have to write two letters. After all, one letter should suffice. From when is it planned to use the new call letter? Finally, has the training for magistrates also been adapted and vetted in order to improve communication with children and make them more comfortable in cases requiring a hearing right?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-30-54-commissie-ic677x.u21	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Article 1004/2 of the Code of Justice provides that the King shall establish a model of letter inviting him to be heard for children over the age of 12. Article 1004/1, Paragraph 3 of the Code provides that the minor who is 12 years old is to be informed of his right to be heard by means of a letter containing a reply form. Thus, the legal provisions relating to the hearing of minors do not explicitly require the courts to use these models. The Royal Decree of 23 August 2014 establishing the model information form referred to in Article 1004/2 of the Civil Code has already established a model form, but, as you rightly pointed out, several actors in the field wish to review its content. Indeed, the form was not adapted to the language of children and did not take into account the practices in the various districts where the information letter already provided for a call-in date to hear the child. Following these findings, the Commissioner for Children's Rights and the Délégué général aux droits de l'enfant have devised different models after hearing different children about their expectations on this subject. These drafts were discussed at several meetings of the Working Party on the Family Court. The models adapted to the comments of the Working Group were subsequently approved by the members of the Working Group and annexed to a new draft Royal Decree of 28 April 2017, which was published in the Belgian Official Journal of 22 May 2017. This royal decree will enter into force on 1 June the day after tomorrow. The new Royal Decree provides for different models of letters of invitation, the content of which varies depending on whether the court determines a date of call in the letter or not. As far as the specific content of these letters is concerned, I refer to the royal decree which has already been published. As in the previous form, the minor is asked to tick a box with his decision to refuse or accept the invitation and to return this letter to the court by post or by mail. The Royal Decree also provides for a model letter to be handed over by the minor to his parents or legal representatives. This letter explains the reasons and purposes of this interview. At the same time, the letter stresses the importance of the interview and the free choice of the minor whether or not to respond to the invitation. The new models take account of the comments made. Therefore, the judges are advised to use them, all the more so because they leave the choice to choose the model best suited to the practices in their district and, if necessary, to modulate them. The question of the presence of confidential persons at the hearing was discussed in depth at the meeting of the Working Party on Family Court. Since Article 1004/1, § 5 in principle excludes the presence of any other person, unless the court decides otherwise by reasoned decision, the presence of a confidential person cannot be imposed. I would like to point out that Article 1004/2 regulates the content of the letters of invitation. The authorization to the King therefore does not provide for the procedure for sending the letter of invitation. As I have already been able to tell you, following an earlier oral question, particularly from you, Mrs Uyttersprot, the training of magistrates already contains an important part about hearing minors. It pays due attention to the context of the various interrogations of minors and the necessary accompanying information for the minor. The judges of the family courts are familiarized with the different communication techniques and the ability to ask questions based on the age of the children. I will inform the Institute of Judicial Training of the new royal decree and invite it to examine the extent to which this part of the training needs to be adapted to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-30-54-commissie-ic677x.u22	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. I have known as a lawyer the time when only the peace judges were obliged to hear children. With the law on the family court we have taken a huge step forward, in the sense that all children from 12 years of age are now heard in disputes that concern them; or can be heard, it is not an obligation. I am very pleased with your answer, which seems to be very topical. After all, you say that the Royal Decree was published on 22 May and will enter into force the day after tomorrow, if I have listened carefully. I will look carefully at the new models that can only benefit the quality of hearing. Today there is still the misunderstanding that hearing is also deciding. Children are heard by the judge, but they do not decide: the judge decides in their interest when the parents do not agree. Finally, on the training of our magistrates. I agree that this training exists, but in practice we find that one family judge hears five minutes and another half an hour. There is a great difference in the quality of hearing in the field. The more accurate the hearing is, the more one can express oneself in the best interests of the child. I can't stress that any better. The judges must apply the law and do so in a quality manner. We, Members of Parliament, and you, Minister, cannot take their place.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-30-54-commissie-ic677x.u23	Minister, like my colleague, I would like to thank you for your reply. I remember the study of a year ago, which recognised that in Belgium there is an accessible access for minors to the administration of justice. You were right to say that this should not prevent us from constantly improving access. The family court is subject to constant evaluation. In any case, I note that the new royal decree will enter into force on 1 June. It has been co-tested with the minors and with the Working Group on Family Law. I hope it will be satisfactory on the ground. I also note that it is still not an obligation, but a choice, and that there will still be differences between the courts. As far as the training of magistrates is concerned, I know that there are compulsory training courses at the IGO for juvenile judges and family judges who belong to minors. These training courses are effective, but the question arises as to whether they are sufficient. Will the magistrates be effectively followed? It is essential that this happens.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-30-54-commissie-ic677x.u24	Mr Minister, a few weeks or months ago, I asked you about the problem of certain European nationals' requests for a declaration of Belgian nationality. As a reminder, many European citizens, particularly British citizens, working in the European institutions are the subject of negative opinions from the Attorney-General's Office. These refusal decisions are regularly reformed by the various Belgian courts on the basis of European law. As I told you, the Prosecutor's Office maintains its position despite the increasing number of judicial decisions forcing European citizens to lengthy and costly judicial proceedings. The specific problem arises for European citizens who have a permanent stay in Belgium and who, prior to obtaining such a permanent stay, were granted a special identity card. For these categories of European citizens, the Public Prosecutor's Office considers fictitiously that they did not enjoy a legal stay on Belgian soil for the period immediately preceding their application, within the meaning of Article 7a(2), (2) of the Belgian Nationality Code and the Royal Decree of 14 January 2013. In your reply dated 14 December 2016, you indicated that this issue was the subject of consultation with the other departments concerned, namely the Internal FPS, the Foreign Office and the Foreign Affairs FPS, so that, I quote, "a relaxation of the conditions of stay can be proposed". Therefore, Minister, could you please inform me of the progress of this consultation? Are you able, at this stage, to reassure many European nationals who wish to introduce a declaration of Belgian nationality?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-30-54-commissie-ic677x.u25	Mr President, following the reply I gave on 14 December 2016 to your previous question on the problem of requests by certain European nationals for declarations of Belgian nationality, on 4 January 2017 I wrote to my counterparts MM. Jambon, Reynders and Franken. The problem on which I drew their attention concerns the possibility of assigning the stay covered by the special identity card to a stay of more than three months, covered by the Act of 15 December 1980 on access to the territory to which Article 7a(2) of the Belgian Nationality Code explicitly refers. To date, I have not received all the responses requested. It is therefore difficult, at this stage, to comment on a possible relaxation of the conditions of residence until all my colleagues with competence in this field have communicated their position on the subject to me. I will certainly send them a reminder and unfortunately we will have to come back to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-30-54-commissie-ic677x.u26	Minister, thank you for your answer. I note that after five months, your colleagues have still not answered you! I can only suggest that you use the question I put to you as a reminder. If you wish, I can, for my part, ask them a parliamentary question or leave the initiative to you. Understand that since Brexit, many people (I want to call them our citizens because they have lived among them for so long) in the UK want to be able to settle in Belgium for a long time, especially since they have made their lives there, their children go to school, some of them already work in Belgium. We have here a population of people who have made the bet of European construction, who have settled in Belgium, who are employed by a European institution and who, overnight, will have to make particularly cornelian choices. Since they have been with us for a very long time and are perfectly integrated, we could ensure, if they so wish, that they have access to Belgian nationality. I find it difficult to understand that, on the part of your colleagues (it is certainly not at home that I feel that there is a lack of will) there is no clear understanding of the urgency of dealing with this problem. In any event, I thank you, Minister, for your answers that always combine clarity and sincerity. Thank you!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-30-54-commissie-ic677x.u27	Mr Brotcorne is not here. His interplay will therefore not take place.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-30-54-commissie-ic677x.u28	Minister, you had already announced several times in committee that you were working on a text on legal aid insurance. In this sense, the communication of the last two weeks and the weekend is no surprise, of course, but that this is announced as a measure within the framework of the Super-Ministership Council on Security. While in the past you have taken measures to restrict access to justice by increasing costs, arguing that too many people are too quick to appeal to the courts, I note that you are now promoting legal aid insurance, which might prompt people to sue more quickly. For the sake of clarity, Minister, as you have already concluded from my previous questions, I am certainly in favour of affordable access to justice. Furthermore, I note that there are still a lot of uncertainties, first of all as regards insurance cover. For the time being, it would only be about assistance in divorce and construction disputes, files in which people need a lawyer anyway. Perhaps it will be cheaper for those insured in those painful cases than at present, depending on the rates that still have to be laid down by law. It remains to be decided whether other subjects will be covered by the insurance scheme. There is also a lack of clarity as to the tax deductibility of the legal aid insurance premium, which people must include in order to take out legal aid insurance. We don't know how big the tax advantage will be. Mr Minister, experience in the past shows that non-compulsory insurance will only succeed in ensuring that insurance covers and is affordable. This is still unclear today. Minister, despite these uncertainties, I would have liked to have had an answer to the following questions. Firstly, annual premiums are mentioned in the newspapers between EUR 150 and EUR 300. Do these amounts make sense? Secondly, do you have any concrete commitments from insurance companies, subject to a commitment from Assuralia, to meet your objectives?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-30-54-commissie-ic677x.u29	Mr President, Minister, following the extraordinary Council of Ministers on 14 May, you announced your willingness to introduce, in the course of 2018, legal protection insurance for people who do not benefit from second-line legal aid. The project also provides a tax incentive to encourage people to subscribe to it. This proposal for defi-calisation raises questions. Without much surprise, you and your government are once again promoting the most privileged litigants by introducing this famous tax incentive whose weight will weigh on the community. Not everyone is given the opportunity to subscribe to this type of insurance: many litigants who do not qualify for legal aid do not have sufficient income to meet the costs of a trial or to subscribe to this type of insurance. After the introduction of a moderator ticket as part of front-line legal aid, the increase in registry fees or the mandatory contribution to the Legal Aid Fund, here is a new barrier to access to justice! Minister, how much will the amount of the insurance premium be? What do you plan for people who are outside legal aid but whose income does not allow them to take out this type of insurance? Will they be left on the tile? How will the future package work? Do you have an agreement with the professions concerned?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-30-54-commissie-ic677x.u30	Mr President, at the Council of Ministers on 14 May last, an agreement was reached on the arrangements for legal aid insurance. For those who are not able to rely on second-line assistance, but have insufficient resources or insufficient financial buffer to cover unforeseen legal costs, legal aid insurance may provide a solution. In doing so, it is important that citizens retain their freedom of choice and contract. The free choice of a lawyer must be respected at all times. We have already read in your policy statement that alternative dispute resolution should and will be encouraged in the design of the model policy. I have the following questions. How will alternative dispute resolution be promoted and promoted in a model policy? What tax incentive will eventually come? From when will the insured person be able to benefit effectively from this tax incentive? Will existing legal aid policies be readily converted into the tax-supported new policy or should the insured person respect his current contract term? Has it already been calculated, possibly in cooperation with Minister Van Overtveldt, how much this measure will cost the government? If so, on what parameters was that calculation made? Has it also been assessed what effect this measure will or may have on the number of legal proceedings, as suggested by my colleague? Do you have any indications that the fear of an exponential increase in the number of legal proceedings will be confirmed? You have already stated a number of times that you were engaged in intensive negotiations on the measure with desk associations and insurers. Is there already a final agreement with these actors, will you wait for such an agreement or no longer? Can an agreement with the actors, whether or not they have been reached, still affect the government's recent decision?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-30-54-commissie-ic677x.u31	Minister, much has already been said and I will confine myself to the questions I have put in this connection. What exactly is this tax incentive going to look like? Will it increase or decrease according to the premium to be paid? Is there any idea of the annual premiums that should be paid? In particular, there is talk of extending the coverage to building disputes and divorces or family disputes. Is there any other options available? What exactly does the increase in minimum guarantee ceilings mean and how much does it amount to? Is there a risk that people will fall off the boat for second-line assistance because they have too much income, and they will not be able to use this new legal aid insurance?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-30-54-commissie-ic677x.u32	This issue is part of the previous question. It is about the idea of the future publication of lawyers' fees through a nomenclature, as in the case of doctors. Lawyers should indicate whether or not they will respect agreed tariffs and the government would draw up a list of lawyers who would like to negotiate. According to the Minister, this would facilitate access to justice because the services provided can be recovered by the citizen on the new legal aid insurance to be introduced in accordance with the listed rates. When choosing a lawyer who would not comply with these rates, the citizen would have to bear the additional costs on top of the agreed rates himself. In the meantime, some lawyers have already argued that one case is not the other and even speak of conflict with European competition rules. However, for example, a gynecologist also applies a fixed rate for a childbirth, to make a comparison. Hence my questions. Firstly, what criteria will be available to establish this nomenclature? Secondly, does this nomenclature apply to all disputes? If not, why not? Which one is it, which one isn't it? Thirdly, when will the nomenclature be published and entered into force?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-30-54-commissie-ic677x.u33	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the draft royal decree setting out the conditions which a legal protection insurance contract must satisfy in order for the premium to be taken into consideration for a tax incentive is intended to help people whose incomes exceed the limits applicable to second-line legal aid to assert their rights. Our democracy must be attentive to the defence of the rights of all its citizens. By pooling risks, legal protection insurance can offer an affordable solution, such as health insurance and hospital insurance. In order for the premium of this legal protection insurance to remain payable, so that this product is more widely distributed and protects more citizens against legal risks with often serious financial consequences, a tax incentive will be organised as part of the tax of natural persons. The Council of Ministers of 14 May took a decision in principle and asked me to implement the tax incentive together with the Minister of Finance. The project will be preceded for almost two years by consultations with Assuralia, on the one hand, and the OVB and avocats.be, on the other. That consultation shows a will to make the project work, although of course it is the government's project, and I dare not say that every insurer and every lawyer will support that project; that would also be a little much to ask. From my contacts with the insurance sector, I conclude that there is sufficient interest to offer that insurance product. It is not possible today to make a ruling on the level of premiums, which will not be imposed in a regulatory manner. The exact premium will differ between insurance companies, taking into account the exact coverage offered and the actuarial calculation applied by each company. It goes without saying that the tax advantage will be limited to a maximum amount to be applied. Legal aid insurance is not compulsory. insurers are free to commercialise that product and insurers can continue to offer other legal expenses insurance in addition to that product, which will not benefit from the tax incentive. I appreciate the constructive attitude of the Bar Orders. The right to free choice of lawyer remains guaranteed, and lawyers can freely set their fees, in accordance with the principles set out in the Judicial Code and in their ethics. However, the draft Royal Decree sets out the list of benefits in an annex. The list is drawn up on the basis of the workload per benefit and includes all possible benefits in the privacy dispute. Lawyers will be able to opt for compliance with this schedule and agree. To ensure clarity and transparency vis-à-vis the client, a list of lawyers who adhere to the list will be published. The aim is to promote access to conflict resolution in a broad sense. It is for this reason that the coverage of the extra-judicial treatment of disputes, mediations, arbitration, etc. will be included among the minimum conditions, in line with my policy that not everything should be dealt with by and before a judge, but that negotiated solutions may sometimes have greater and better effects. The aim was to cover the most common risks in private life. Therefore, divorce and building disputes were added, risks that are rarely covered by the current legal expenses insurance policies. The draft will be technically refined in the coming days in consultation with the various stakeholders, as well as with the Minister of Finance for the part of the tax incentive. An entry into force is envisaged on 1 January 2018. The aim is indeed to remove as many financial and other obstacles as possible in order to ensure equal access to justice for all and thus improve our democratic rule of law.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-30-54-commissie-ic677x.u34	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. This will start on 1 January 2018. That's a pretty tight timing. Do I understand correctly that the maximum tax advantage to be applied is not yet known?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-30-54-commissie-ic677x.u35	Minister, I am quite astonished at your answer. You end by saying that you want to remove all financial barriers, to allow everyone access to justice. However, you do not give the amount of the insurance premium. It is known that with measures such as the increase in registry fees and the moderator ticket, some people are increasingly denied access to justice. You still have to have the means to subscribe to this type of insurance, of which you do not give the amount of the premium.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-30-54-commissie-ic677x.u36	Minister, the government agreement already provided for the promotion of legal aid insurance. On 1 January 2018, this will also be possible, in the best case case, to be checked. We are therefore pleased that your idea of compulsory legal aid insurance, which has been suggested for a while, is now finally abandoned. The positive thing is that alternative dispute resolution is once again on the agenda. We must indeed ensure that the broadest possible coverage can be provided, and this is also included in the planning, if I understand correctly. The issue of affordability, subject to fiscal incentives, remains so that access to justice is effectively open to all. If I understand correctly, the technical impact is still for these or the next few weeks. We look forward to the design and related royal decisions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-30-54-commissie-ic677x.u37	Thank you, Minister, for your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-30-54-commissie-ic677x.u38	Mr President, Minister, following on from my oral question of 10 May on the recognition of mosques, I read a response from Flemish Minister Homans in the press. You would have received 43 Flemish applications for recognitions for mosques, and 20 of them gave you a positive opinion. Mr Minister, why was an opinion only given for these 20 applications? How did the selection happen? What is the status of other applications for recognition? Are these under investigation, or have they already been investigated and have been decided that additional research is needed? When can we expect the advice? Secondly, Flemish minister Homans says that apparently the federal level only has money for 20 imams in Flanders. Is that statement made by your colleague correct? Thirdly, Flemish Minister Homans announced that she would withdraw the Flemish recognitions in order to examine the recognition procedure. Does this announcement affect the opinions you still have to deliver on the 23 other applications?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-30-54-commissie-ic677x.u39	Mr President, Mrs Lambrecht, in the context of the distribution of the appropriations of the interdepartmental commission on terrorism, the government decided at the beginning of 2016 to release funds for the remuneration of 80 imams first in rank. They could be appointed in the following years in 80 new mosques to be recognized by the Regions. On the basis of the priority list of the competent representative body, a positive opinion was sent to the different regions for 30 dossiers in view of the resources available for 2016, and in the light of the relevant safety assessments provided by the State Security. The other dossiers for advice will follow the procedure described in the letter of recommendation on the security of the state and the public order of the federal government in the context of the recognition procedures of local faith communities by the Regions and the German-speaking Community, to which my cabinet and other relevant Cabinets are currently finalising. I expect to be able to deliver the requested opinions later this year. Currently in Flanders 20 imams are paid by the FPS Justice, namely 12 first in rank, 2 second in rank and 6 third in rank. As previously stated, funds are provided for the payment of 80 additional imams first in rank. However, non-recognition means that these appropriations have not yet been used effectively.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-30-54-commissie-ic677x.u40	Thank you for your reply, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-30-54-commissie-ic677x.u41	Mr President, Minister, last week the daily Gazet van Antwerpen reported that certain leaders of a Cannabis Social Club (CSC) in Antwerp, named Trekt Uw Plant, were subject to criminal proceedings for violation of the Act of 24 February 1921 concerning trafficking in poisonous, soporific, astounding, psychotropic, disinfectant or antiseptic substances and substances that could be used for the illicit manufacture of narcotic and psychotropic substances, and had been issued an arrest warrant. Although CCS activity is certainly illegal, the Trekt Uw Plant association has been operating openly for more than ten years without the judicial authorities appearing to be particularly concerned about it. The criminal proceedings against these leaders and their pre-trial detention lead me to question the consistency of the criminal policy pursued when a certain tolerance seems to have been applied for many years. In addition, you are aware that the regularization of the status of CSCs has recently been part of the public debate in the light of the findings of the failure of the current cannabis policy, notably following the publication of the Cannabis book under the supervision of Professors Tytgat, De Grauwe and Decorte. Minister, what are the circumstances that warrant the prosecution now when the CSC Trekt Uw Plant has been in existence for ten years? Is the fight against drug use such as cannabis a priority of your criminal policy? If so, how do you explain this when the 2005 directive, which provides that possession of cannabis is considered to be the lowest priority of prosecution policy, remains in force?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-30-54-commissie-ic677x.u42	Mr President, Mrs Özen, the Public Prosecutor's Office of Antwerp has confirmed the opening of a criminal investigation into the ASBL Trekt Uw Plant. The secrecy of the investigation precludes the disclosure of additional information. However, your question seems to be based on several elements that are not confirmed in fact. It is, for example, inaccurate that the activities of the ASBL have been tolerated by the judicial authorities for several years. In 2006, the Minister of Justice, Ms. Onkelinx, had already answered a question from MP Stijn Bex that the Justice Circular left no doubt about the meaning of the law and the directive, that the activity of the Cannabis Social Clubs was illegal and that the lowest priority given to the possession of cannabis for personal use could not be applied to her from the moment when it comes to growing a large number of cannabis plants. Several judicial investigations have resulted in the dismantling, in Hasselt, Tournai, Liège and Namur, of clandestine plantations run by associations or the seizure of part of the production. Those responsible had been placed under arrest and not all cases had yet been finally tried. The distinction between honourable cannabis-producing organizations and criminal organizations does not appear to be valid in law or in fact. In this regard, I refer to the April 24, 2017 communiqué of the College of Attorneys General, which is clearly developing things. I quote: "The detention of cannabis by a person who is of age for his personal use, without aggravating circumstances or disturbing public order, is a violation punishable by a fine of 15 to 25 euros times eight. However, this offence is given low priority in prosecution policy. This is quite different with regard to the possession by an association of cannabis necessary for the consumption of its members. Indeed, anyone who facilitates the use of cannabis to others, regardless of the means used and whether or not to do so free of charge, is liable to imprisonment from three months to five years and a fine from 1,000 to 100,000 euros. In addition, if the offence is committed in the course of the activity of an association, it is an aggravating circumstance and the penalty is then increased to imprisonment from 10 to 15 years in addition to the fine. In respect of the leaders of such an association, the penalty shall be imprisonment from 15 to 20 years in addition to the fine. Several commentators wrongly stated that it was within the competence of the Public Prosecutor's Office to decide whether or not to authorize the establishment or operation of such associations. It was also wrong to say that the functioning of some of these associations was tolerated in some boroughs. On the contrary, the Public Prosecutor's Office wishes to point out that proceedings are currently under way in several districts." Thank you, Mr President, Mrs Özen.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-30-54-commissie-ic677x.u43	Minister, thank you for reading the scale of sentences applicable in this case. But I'll be careful about the follow-up to this case.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-30-54-commissie-ic677x.u44	Minister, one of the measures announced at the Super-Minister's Council of Ministers two weekends ago is to have shopkeepers fined thieves themselves in their case in the form of compensation of probably EUR 181, without the use of the police or the courts. The reason is that the police have better things to do than go after shoplifters. She has to deal with heavy recidivists as a matter of priority. UNIZO, among others, was already delighted. The newspapers are constantly talking about the fact that we will finally be able to deal with criminals ourselves. Avoiding minutes and whether or not to follow up through court cases is one of the key points in your policy to avoid as many judicial cases as possible through settlements. Reference is made, among other things, to the Dutch model, whereby collection agencies are also employed to collect compensation. After all, amounts of 181 euros do not always carry bad guys in their pockets. You will understand that the measure may raise a number of questions about the rights of alleged shoplifters and the safety of shopkeepers, as well as questions about the final powers of private security services, on which your colleague Mr Jambon is currently putting a draft law to the vote in the Chamber. The question can also be asked as to who can collect compensation after a theft. If, for example, a shop of a tourist shop of a city is stolen, can the municipal official demand 181 euros? The same question arises in connection with, for example, a theft in a sports club's cafeteria. Can you explain who is covered by the scheme and what a shopkeeper can and can not do, if he catches a shoplifter and no longer has to call the police? What happens if violence comes into play after the shopkeeper has claimed 181 euros in damages from the shoplifter? Should the police be brought in after all? How are the rights and safety of the alleged shoplifter and the owner of the store safeguarded if things escalate? A shopkeeper cannot look in databases to check whether or not the shoplifter is a heavy recidivist. The fact that we have to wait until the police receive the form with the friendly settlement between shopkeeper and recidivist will, of course, be wary of the recidivists. Can the shopkeeper ask for the ID card? If not, the shoplifter can simply invent another identity. In the light of the amended legislation, can private security services also be used to collect damages?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-30-54-commissie-ic677x.u45	Minister, at the recent Super-Ministery Council, the government announced a large number of new security measures. One of these is the accelerated friendly settlement between the perpetrator of a shoplifting operation and the affected trader. From now on, there would no longer be a police or a court, but traders could proceed directly to the recovery of a friendly settlement. A lick-on-piece policy in shoplifting has long been a problem for which the government is seeking a solution. In many arrondissements, especially in Antwerp, therefore, has been working with rapid law for a long time now. Those pilot projects proved useful. The coalition agreement therefore also included the extension of this and the establishment of a chamber in each district to allow a rapid judicial procedure for simple crimes. Now, however, the government is coming up with the proposal on an amicable settlement. How will the accelerated friendly settlement between the culprit of a shoplifter and the trader be worked out in concrete terms? What type of business will it cover? What cases are excluded from the new regime? For example, are market stallers included below? How will the rights of the shoplifter be safeguarded by the accelerated amicable settlement? Can it only be imposed in the act of being caught? How will that be established? What happens in the event of a dispute or violence? I imagine the shoplifter disagrees with the fact that he has to pay or pay a settlement under duress. Then where can he go? What can he do? Who can enforce the accelerated amicable settlement? Can only the manager do that or also the shopkeepers? Can the determination and handling be outsourced, for example to private security services, as Mrs Lambrecht has already done? Does the new system mean that the fast-track system for shoplifting is being reduced and everything is being put into the friendly settlement? In other words, do you refrain from the intention in the government agreement to deal with such matters more and more through the right of urgency and special chambers? Isn't the speedy law being judged positively by you, by the government or by the trade associations? Finally, it is an interesting concept, but it does not seem obvious to me. Are there any other European countries in which the system is already in place or is Belgium the first country to opt out of police and judicial action for that type of theft and place the responsibility and handling of the system in the hands of the traders themselves? It seems to me that it is interesting to know and to find out how this can be done elsewhere.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-30-54-commissie-ic677x.u46	Mr Minister, can you explain in detail to the members of the committee how everything on the new measure will work? I would also like to refer to the rapid procedure. This is what the government agreement states: "The efforts to set up specific chambers in each district to enable a rapid judicial procedure for simple crimes will be continued. Does it mean that the coalition agreement is abandoned and that this objective should no longer be achieved? Can you tell me in which arrondissements there are already rooms for rapid justice today? Have they been evaluated in the meantime, for example with regard to the number of cases dealt with?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-30-54-commissie-ic677x.u47	Minister, you announced your willingness to strengthen the security of self-employed and SMEs in the course of 2018. During the discussions, it would have been decided that a transaction could be made between traders and thieves caught in flagrante delicto, creating an amicable arrangement between the two parties and in this way motting the trader into a sort of "secret", according to the Union of Independents and SMEs. In addition, this would increase the risk for the merchant, finding himself in power with the thieves, and potentially for the entire customer, while the police forces are supposed to fulfill this role. The Supreme Council of Justice speaks of a civilization of criminal law that could lead to a kind of outsourcing of justice, rather than giving it the necessary means to function effectively. How can you guarantee the safety of traders and their customers in this kind of situation? What is the added value of such a transaction, if an amicable arrangement is already possible? What is the difference proposed? What are the terms of the transaction, including the amount and execution of the transaction? What is the planned agenda for the implementation of the transaction?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-30-54-commissie-ic677x.u48	My colleague, Mr Borsus, has made a proposal to apply a quick friendly arrangement to certain types of shoplifting. The proposal has not yet been the subject of formal consultations with the police and the public prosecutors. It is only after these discussions that the concrete conditions of such a system will become clear. In the Netherlands, the project has been in existence for several years. As a result, shoplifting with violence and band break-in will be excluded from the device. This will be limited to mere shoplifting. Police and justice should be informed of the proposed regulations, with a view to maintaining judicial control. I would like to stress that the suspect can always refuse a transaction and that we are working on the basis of mutual consent. I would point out that such a method is not unique in Belgian legal practice. For example, most road accidents are dealt with with with merely physical damage, whereas these are also crimes. Mr Borsus' proposal does not affect the commitments contained in the coalition agreement, including with regard to the rapid justice chambers. By the way, it is up to the judiciary to set up the chambers for rapid justice. The legislator already allows that. As far as the oral question is concerned, I cannot give any figures as they are not available.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-30-54-commissie-ic677x.u49	Minister, I have very little information here, and there has been a great deal of work to be done on this. I can only hope that this will change in the near future.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-30-54-commissie-ic677x.u50	Mr President, I would like to continue to look forward to its concrete implementation. You speak of certain forms. From this I conclude that the scheme does not apply to everything. It seems clear to me that consultations are still taking place. You say that it is not unique to our system and you refer to road accidents involving physical damage, which are also crimes. That is true, of course, but there is always a finding that precedes it. Either a report was made, or there's a testimony, on the basis of which the insurance company handles the case. This is what I find interesting about the suggestion, how the findings actually happen. You keep the tension in and I'm in figuratively happy expectation.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-30-54-commissie-ic677x.u51	Minister, I agree with Mrs De Wit.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-30-54-commissie-ic677x.u52	Mr President, I will say the same thing: not enough information.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-30-54-commissie-ic677x.u53	Mr President, Minister, the extraordinary Council of Ministers has announced in Val Duchesse a series of measures concerning justice and security. Among them, the safety penalty is particularly important for our group, but also for the judiciary and for associations active in the defence of human rights. The rejection seems to be unanimous: studies show that confinement is the least effective punishment. Incompressible penalties do not allow for the fight against recidivism, contradict the entire economy of the current system by undermining the competence of the court for the enforcement of sentences, and also lead to overcrowding in prisons. On the other hand, the parole system prepares the convicted person for return to society and promotes his reintegration into society. Mr Alexis Deswaef, President of the League of Human Rights, spoke of "criminal populism". Mrs Sonja Snacken spoke of a perfectly superfluous and fear-motivated measure. Minister, what is the added value of incompressible sentences in relation to our parole system? To whom will these new measures apply and from when? What will be the fate of the most dangerous detainees currently serving a prison sentence for terrorism, for example? Will structural measures be taken to improve the situation in our prisons? A staff increase of only 1.3 per cent, foreseen in the budget adjustment, does not seem sufficient and none of the 28 measures announced this Sunday aim to improve the situation in our prisons.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-30-54-commissie-ic677x.u54	Mademe Özen, before answering your questions, I would like to point out that our judicial system is already facing incompressible penalties. The law of 17 May 2016 on external legal status provides that a convicted person must be subjected to at least one third of the sentence or two thirds in case of recidivism before being able to request his release from the sentencing court. The penalty is therefore incompressible for one-third or two-thirds of its duration. I note that during the previous legislature, the March 2013 law severely tightened the time conditions for heavy convictions and serious recidivism. For example, for sentences of 30 years or life imprisonment, the minimum time requirement had been increased to 15 years or even 23 years in some cases. The draft proposed by the Council of Ministers is limited, in accordance with the Government Agreement, to a few serious offences, such as terrorist attacks, rape resulting in death, torture resulting in death, abduction of minors resulting in death, murder of certain vulnerable categories of persons. The legis ratio is a better protection against authors who have undermined the foundations of our society or targeted the weakest. It will therefore be for the trial judge, if necessary and optionally, to impose the minimum length of the sentence. This minimum will again be limited by the legislator to a legal maximum. Conditional release will remain the rule if the sentencing court decides positively on this matter, obviously after the minimum period imposed by the trial judge. I am currently working on a new Penal Enforcement Code in which early release will remain the norm, with an emphasis on reclassification and prevention of recidivism. I am planning new procedures for the execution of sentences, such as transitional homes and placements in psychiatric institutions for prisoners with mental disorders. With regard to your question concerning the improvement of prison conditions, I can confirm the following initiatives: the continued transfer of interned persons to care facilities, the implementation of the master plan on prisons with, in the short term, some extensions of existing prison capacity, the optimisation of the flow of out-patients, with priority attention to convicted persons without a right of residence, and a better filling of staff, including that of care teams and psychosocial services. In addition, implementing orders are being prepared. They must activate a number of provisions of the Law of Principles still pending entry into force.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-30-54-commissie-ic677x.u55	Minister, I will take the trouble of analysing your detailed answer, and thank you for it.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-30-54-commissie-ic677x.u56	Mr President, Minister, in your presentation to the Federal Conciliation Committee following the week of conciliation in October last year, you announced a number of measures to promote mediation. In the meantime, during the committee of 28 March, I explained my proposal on the right of access for grandparents, in which we propose, with our group, that, before starting legal proceedings, first and foremost through mediation, we try to reach an agreement. After all, it is conscience and also human that an intermediate agreement is better respected than what has been imposed by a judgment, especially when it comes to family matters. I have the following questions. Is it an option to impose an individual information session on mediation before going to court? I refer here to the example of Kortrijk. The National Action Plan against Sexual and Partner Violence states that parties must first have had a meeting with a mediator before they can go to the family court. This would be further investigated or developed in consultation with the Communities. Has this investigation been carried out and completed effectively? If so, what is the result? If not, when can we expect this?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-30-54-commissie-ic677x.u57	Mr President, Mrs Uyttersprot, it is true that during last October's week of conciliation I announced a number of concrete measures to promote conciliation. Like you, I recognize the benefits of an intermediate agreement. Let me clarify that the Kortrijk example in your first question does not relate to attending an individual information session on mediation, but to a general acquaintance with alternative forms of dispute resolution, the so-called route mediation. This type of initiative, which I very much welcome, can be incorporated into the existing legislative framework, partly thanks to the mandatory personal appearance at the opening session in family matters. It is a finding that there have been very many mediation initiatives, depending on court to court. That is why I announced in my policy paper of November 2016 to map the existing initiatives with the aim of streamlining them and developing good practice in all courts and courts. As far as your second question is concerned, the national action plan to combat gender-based violence does indeed mention two initiatives on mediation. Firstly, the section on the protection and support of children is exposed to gender-based violence, with compulsory introduction to divorce mediation, the drafting of a parental plan when divorce occurs and there are children. Secondly, the section on partner violence requires that, in the context of a review of mediation, in general, the Justice Department should also pay particular attention to the phenomenon of possible prior partner violence and/or future harassment in the context of divorce. As I have already mentioned, I would like, first of all, to encourage mediation in general. To this end, a preliminary draft was prepared allowing the court to question parties at every stage of the agreement on the way in which they attempted to resolve the dispute amicably before they brought the case and to inform them of it. The court may, even if it considers it useful, suspend the proceedings or postpone the case to a fixed date in order to allow the parties to consider whether their dispute cannot be resolved in whole or in part with kindness and to obtain all useful information for that purpose. For mediation in particular, the preliminary draft provides that the court dealing with the dispute may of its own motion impose on the parties the obligation to try to resolve their dispute by means of mediation or the follow-up of an information session. The preliminary draft is currently under discussion in the government. Once the general framework for mediation has been reformed, I will pay particular attention to the implementation of the action points mentioned and, where appropriate, consult the Communities. The intention is therefore to have the draft conciliation approved by the government before the summer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-30-54-commissie-ic677x.u58	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. You will certainly find a partner in us for everything that has to do with mediation.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-30-54-commissie-ic677x.u59	Mr Minister, the Law of 1 December 2016 amending the Judicial Code and the Bankruptcy Act of 8 August 1997 with a view to the introduction of the Central Register Solvency provides for a digital database, where bankruptcy files can be charged and stored electronically. This is a major step forward in the computerisation of justice. The aim is, of course, to save the curators, but also the courts a lot of time and money in the long term. This facilitates submission and follow-up and is clear and transparent. The potpourri IV Act postponed its entry into force until 1 April last in order to roll out the register in all departments of the courts of commerce. In the meantime, we're almost two months away. Firstly, what is the state of play regarding the roll-out of all sections of the courts of commerce? Second, has the Central Register Solvency been able to effectively enter into force as hoped and expected on 1 April 2017? Were there any problems with the start-up and, if so, has this been resolved in the meantime? Thirdly, are all target groups curators, clerks and magistrates sufficiently prepared to work with the new system?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-30-54-commissie-ic677x.u60	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, the Central Registry of Solvency would face computer problems that are detrimental to its proper functioning. Nicknamed REGSOL, this legal tool was put in place on April 1st, but technical coracs would be frequently registered, especially in the Brussels Region. Indeed, as a result of the split of the judicial district of Brussels-Hal-Vilvorde, "bottom-ups" were found between French- and Dutch-speaking files during the process of migration of databases. De facto, names of judges commissioners dedicated to one or the other bankruptcy, or the names of the trustees, have still not been transferred. According to the press judge of the French-speaking commercial court in Brussels, quoted in the media, at the end of April 357 bankruptcies were found to be without judge commissioner and 542 without curator. Minister, what are the nature and extent of the problems in the Central Register of Solvency? What are the objective causes of this situation? What steps have been taken by your services to resolve the problems at risk as soon as possible?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-30-54-commissie-ic677x.u61	Monsieur le président, Mrs Uyttersprot, Monsieur Calomne, the Central Register Solvency has indeed been rolled out in all departments of the courts of commerce since the beginning of 1 April. The entry into service of the register is as planned, taking into account some childhood diseases. At the French-speaking commercial court in Brussels, problems are actually encountered with the connection between the register and the court. Following a duplication of data during the court's 2014 split into two new courts, data from a number of pending bankruptcies were imported incompletely or incorrectly, requiring manual corrections. The details of the bankruptcies from the other language group were no longer updated because they were no longer used. When charging this information in RegSol, these specific data quality problems have emerged. This problem arises only in Brussels because of its private cause. The administrator of the register is implementing the necessary changes today and expects that these problems will be resolved in the coming weeks. Training of the target groups concerned took place before entry into service on 1 April. In addition, the administrator organises consultations at regular intervals by profession as well as a cross-cutting consultation with the different target groups.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-30-54-commissie-ic677x.u62	Minister, if I understand correctly, the problems are rather limited and localized in a limited area. We had hearings two weeks ago under the new insolvency law. We have also heard a number of people there about the start-up and they were unanimously positive about the first course of the Central Register. We will come back to this at a later evaluation after two months, perhaps it is a little early. Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-30-54-commissie-ic677x.u63	Minister, thank you for your answers. Like our colleague, we will remain attentive to the development of the dossier and to its future evaluation, even if it is still a little early.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-30-54-commissie-ic677x.u64	Interpellation No. Mr Brotcorne (S). - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by thanking the President-in-Office of the Council and the President-in-Office of the Council for the work he has done on this subject. 222. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Van Hecke's 18576 question was converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-30-54-commissie-ic677x.u65	Mr President, Minister, at the end of 2015, we heard that a third forensic psychiatric centre was planned in Hofstade near Aalst. The centre should be built and started by 2019. In this center 120 internees would be offered. On a previous question, you replied that all the details and timing had to be kept under review, since the Council of Ministers had to approve the proposal, which would be drawn up by a working party. It's been over a year now, and I have the following questions. Has the working party's proposal already been finalised and submitted to the Council of Ministers? If not, when is this planned? Can you already indicate which target group will be met in Aalst? Last time, you said that the aim of the master plan on internment is to provide an adapted infrastructure for each interned person. Previously, there was talk of inclusion in Aalst longstay patients. Is this still the case? Or will there be interned people who can flow to society? Will men and/or women be taken care of there? Was the land already purchased by the Government of the Buildings? If not, when will that be planned? Is the timing known for the start-up of this center? Have you got eyes on the opening yet?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-30-54-commissie-ic677x.u66	Mr President, Mrs Uyttersprot, Aalst's dossier is part of the Master Plan 3, which was approved by the Council of Ministers in November 2016. We had to wait for that before effectively starting the working group and starting with the concrete work. This working group was set up immediately thereafter and is aimed not only at Aalst but also at the Walloon establishments of Paifve and Waver. The working group, consisting of experts from Justice and Health, does the study work. It is a slightly more complicated concept, legal and contractual, because it is a DBFMO project. In order to do this, we will have to call on a consultant to assist us through the Government of the Buildings. The consultant's assignment is in preparation. The center of Aalst will accommodate one hundred twenty interned and they will be longstay patients. Internal research has shown that there is a need for specific reception and care of treated interns who have a persistently high risk profile. The land has not yet been purchased by the Government of the Buildings, but a technical preliminary study is being carried out, in which context you are better directed to Mr Jambon. I cannot give an exact timing, but it remains the intention, as communicated, to have the centre operational by 2022. To show you that everything is possible, I will tell you that we will open the centre in Antwerp on 29 June.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-30-54-commissie-ic677x.u67	Minister, I do not need to remind you that by the end of this legislature, it is the objective to welcome all interns to a place that they deserve and not to keep in prison. In this respect, the judgment in principle of the 2016 European Court of Justice, which gave us two more years, i.e. until September 2018, to achieve this objective effectively. I note that no land has yet been purchased, but that the assignment for the DBFM is in the making. Together with Mr Smeyers, who can follow that up much better at a local level than myself, I will certainly be able to keep that in mind so that we can effectively give this entire target group a place by the end of the legislature.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-30-54-commissie-ic677x.u68	Minister, first of all, allow me to thank you once again for the transgender bill. This has nothing to do with my question, but I take advantage of the opportunity. On May 10, the press echoed a complaint filed against you by a compulsive player. This Brusselsman, some 30 years old, demands damages of 65 000 euros, because he was able to continue playing, even though he was on the blacklist of the gambling commission. Anyone on this official list can no longer enter a games room or register on online gambling sites. Despite his presence on this blacklist, it is on the internet that this gentleman lost 65,000 euros, which he now claims from the Belgian state. The press reports that the gambling commission is aware of the problem. For example, the data of the registered individuals are not always 100% correct due to transcription errors or other inaccuracies. Their personal data does not appear completely with their names on the blacklist. The gambling commission explains that it tries to avoid this type of problem by comparing the identities of these persons with the civil status data, but that this possibility is quite costly. Minister, what would be the structural solutions that your administration, through the gambling commission, could find so that personal data is fully transcribed? Would a much more binding legislative framework be possible in order to avoid abuses in terms of player liability? Is it possible to impose on the compulsive player to retain his full responsibility if it is proved that he clearly wanted to circumvent the system put in place to protect him from himself?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-30-54-commissie-ic677x.u69	Mr Flahaux, first of all, thank you for your thanks. It is in terms of the profiles of online players that fraud is possible. Where false data are entered, in the light of the correct information, the EPIS data bank can effectively control an adaptation of the Commission's and operators' software. Integration and connection with the National Registry are required to verify the profile of online players. Operators must be given an answer to the results of the quality checks of the profile. This method has been called "E-Games Next Generation" and is currently being tested in some operators. The relationship between the National Register and the application for registration should be established immediately, in real time. The gambling committee will shortly be introducing a budget dossier to achieve this objective. An amount of EUR 80,000 per year will be required. On the other hand, as already mentioned, EPIS bank is not only fed by the list of excluded, but also by several other databases that contain information on those excluded from the game: police, data bank of persons in collective debt settlement, Ministry of Justice and justice of the peace. In particular, a player registering under a false name is liable to criminal prosecution. This track has only been very rarely followed, as some bettors or players have an addictive personality. Where there is a genuine intention to commit a forgery in order to obtain reimbursement for losses, the police may draw up a report which will be forwarded to the Public Prosecutor's Office for appropriate follow-up. In the event of a classification without further action for reasons of expediency, the gambling commission may proceed with the payment of a fine. At the civil level, without prejudice to judicial decisions, it seems to me that the principle that no one can invoke his own fault to claim damages is also applicable in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-30-54-commissie-ic677x.u70	Mr Minister, thank you for your answer, which seems to me to be quite a step in the right direction. You could also have imagined a system where you have to introduce your ID card into a card reader, as you do with the tax return. I believe, however, that we are moving in the right direction. Personally, I find it somewhat brackish that a person who has been registered and who knows how to have a big problem, plays in spite of everything and then blames the state for its own turpitudes, if I may say so.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-30-54-commissie-ic677x.u71	Question No 18692 by Mr Stéphane Crusnière is postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-30-54-commissie-ic677x.u72	Mr President, Minister, I would like to ask you about the current situation of overcrowding in the prison in Tournai. As of May 16, the facility had a prison population of 127% of the site's capacity. In addition, wing C corresponding to "entry, special measures or punishment", has 51 cells for a capacity of 56 places. Currently, seven cells in this wing are blocked due to work related to damage caused by the May 2016 strike, which reduces its capacity to 49 seats. Finally, for this wing, we come to a population of 103 prisoners for 49 actual places, an occupation of more than 200%! This fact calls upon me and undoubtedly requires a reaction from you. On the one hand, because this overcapacity leads to conditions of detention which in no way comply with the basic hygiene and health rules and, on the other hand, because such conditions of detention are likely to have a significant psychosocial burden on administrative and prison staff, which makes their work difficult and stressful. It is therefore imperative to stop the arrival of entrants who are constantly increasing the prison population at the level of wing C, which is simply becoming unmanageable. Minister, will any steps be taken to remedy this situation? Do you intend to stop this flow of entrants into the prison in Tournai? Will Wing C soon return to a reasonable level of prison population, in line with its actual capacity to accommodate?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-30-54-commissie-ic677x.u73	Mr President, Mr Delannois, yesterday, 29 May, the population of Tournai was 213 for a capacity of 179 places and a section of four places for limited detention where low security detainees can be placed. Wing C has 58 seats but is regularly overcrowded as it is a pre-trial wing. At present, four of the ten cells severely degraded during strikes remain to be renovated and two have to be completely remodelled, including capping. The renovation was requested from the Régie des Bâtiments. Two more cells are waiting for new doors currently being manufactured at Bruges Prison. With regard to the flow of detainees, I would point out that the number of detainees in a prison is more difficult to control than in a prison. In addition, the prison in Tournai was somewhat requested to receive the prisoners normally destined for the prison in Mons. The situation in Mons is being regulated, which should have an effect on the number of nuts in Tournai. With regard to matters relating to renovation and necessary work, I would refer you to my colleague Jambon, who is responsible for the Régie des Bâtiments. The renovation of the cells has been requested from the Régie but at this stage my services have not yet been scheduled. Thank you, Mr. President, Mr. Delannois.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-30-54-commissie-ic677x.u74	Mr. Chairman, Mr.Minister, you have no doubt that I cannot be satisfied with your answer. Indeed, you invited me to address Mr Jambon – what I intend to do – while noting the overcrowding in the prison in Tournai. The problems are there, and the staff keep asking me to intervene so that the federal government can decide to act. I hear that in Mons, problems are regularizing. I have no problem with the mayor of this town. But if some people are to be incarcerated in Tournai because the latter refused to be in Mons prison, I may be forced, one day, to do the same. So let's try to find solutions. However, if work is to be done, the federal government and the Régie des Bâtiments hide the truth by repelling the ball.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-30-54-commissie-ic677x.u75	Mr Minister, I have a number of written questions to which I did not receive an answer and which I have therefore turned into oral questions. In the Netherlands, the problem of the so-called loverboys has been under discussion for some time now. Girls are initially seduced by them, but soon the perpetrators completely dominate the victims. This has already been the subject of programmes. Victims are isolated, extorted from their families and sometimes even end up in prostitution. The loverboy therefore applies brutal techniques that often amount to trafficking in human beings. So he should actually be described as a teenage pimp. In our country, attention to this phenomenon seems to be more limited. What is the extent of the problem of loverboys or teenage pimps in Belgium? Do you know whether the problem is greater or smaller than in our neighbouring countries? Can you explain this? How many victims and perpetrators have been registered in the last five years, a year? Do you have any indication of how these figures relate to the dark number in this context? If you don't have any figures, how come? In your opinion, is there any improvement or deterioration in this problem? Can you explain this? Do you experience this problem as acute? What is the policy on catching the victims of loverboys? What specific concerns are there with this type of victims? Can you explain this? In what way does our country fight against this problem? Will this fight be strengthened? If so, how? What legal basis exists in our country to act against loverboys? Have you identified best practices from abroad that can also be applied in our country or which you consider appropriate to improve our approach? Can you explain this?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-30-54-commissie-ic677x.u76	Mrs Lijnen, the loverboy phenomenon is a form of trafficking in human beings in relation to minors. This phenomenon, due to its name, sometimes leads to a loss of sight that it is nothing but trafficking in human beings. In a research conducted by Child Focus on behalf of the Flemish Agency for Youth Welfare, it is recommended to use the term teenage pimps. The study indicates that it is difficult to be clear about the extent of the phenomenon. Victims and perpetrators aren't registered as such anywhere. The offence of trafficking in human beings is registered in a general manner with the Justice and Police Department, without distinction according to the method of exploitation used. Tempting a young man to exploit him or her is a technique used by human smugglers. The policies already applicable to trafficking in human beings should also be applied in this context. It concerns the National Action Plans, the Inter-departmental Coordination Cell to combat human trafficking and trafficking in human beings and the Multidisciplinary Letter of 26 February 2008 on the referral of victims. The Framework Paper Integral Security 2016-2019 provides for an integrated approach under the direction of the Flemish government in relation to the issue of teenage pimps. As far as the partial questions in which you ask me for figures are concerned, I should like to refer to my reply to the written parliamentary question No. 6-759 of 10 December 2015 by Ms Ann Brusseel. The sentencing statistics do not allow to distinguish the files in which the perpetrator is a teenage pimp from other cases of trafficking in human beings with aggravating circumstances of sexual exploitation of minors. As for your question about best practices abroad, I refer to Myria's 2015 annual report on trafficking in human beings and trafficking in human beings. It refers to the approach in the Netherlands with regard to loverboys. For example, youth care is developing an instrument for the risk assessment of sexual cross-border behavior, enabling professionals to detect potential victims of loverboys. A Dutch organisation has created a loverboy checklist, based on a number of basic questions to detect a loverboy. Initiatives such as those in the Netherlands can serve as inspiration in the development of the various instruments in Belgium on the problem of teenage pimps. The extent to which these can be used in the same way will have to be further investigated.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-30-54-commissie-ic677x.u77	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. Last year I had the pleasure of speaking with Merel van Groningen, a specialist who also worked as an expert in the Netherlands to deal with this problem. It's a good thing you're referring to that. We will continue to follow this up.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-30-54-commissie-ic677x.u78	Mr President, Minister, in 2013, the National Child Benefit Office for Workers was overloaded with messages about fraudulent e-mails about child benefit. This is the problem I raised in the Senate at the time. So the problem has existed for a while. This year, such fraud e-mails appeared at the Belgian Railways. With a message on its website, SNCB asked its customers to stay alert for fraudulent e-mails on 21 January 2016. The e-mails asked the recipients to give up personal data, in exchange for free day tickets or weekend bills. The message on the website does not mention anything about informing the CERT, the police or other relevant security services. Given the recent flares of cybercrime, this is striking. I would like to obtain some figures. How many people have already addressed this form of phishing? How many people have passed on sensitive information to criminals in the last three years? What is the most commonly used strategy of the criminals, given the targeted message and the specific target audience they want to steal from? Is it possible, for example, that they have a list of targets to mail? Can you explain this? Do you consider it necessary to mention that the problem can be reported to the competent authorities in the event of such incidents and in the associated communication to address the problem? In this way one can possibly get some insight into this problem. Can you explain why or not, and to which authorities the notifications should be made? Do you have any information on the origin of the perpetrators, or from where the e-mail messages are sent? Can you explain this?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-30-54-commissie-ic677x.u79	Mr President, Mrs Lijnen, as Minister of Justice, given the secret of the investigation, the proper conduct of criminal proceedings and the separation of powers, I cannot communicate information from a concrete criminal record. With regard to the aspects relating to the behaviour of SNCB, I am not competent. Phishing sends unsuspecting Internet users an e-mail containing a URL link from a copied website to enable the user to log on to this fake website with passwords, usernames and credit card numbers. It is possible that only by clicking the link software or malware will be installed, allowing the unsub to check which passwords are entered with the affected device. The perpetrators come to email addresses in different ways by taking over email addresses that were freely posted by the owner or third parties on the Internet, by hacking databases and so on. These e-mail addresses are both addressed and written in person, as well as in general and impersonal. The phenomenon of phishing as one of the modes of cybercrime is closely monitored and prosecuted by various prosecutors and federal prosecutors, in view of the international organised context. However, the College of Attorneys General's database does not allow the search for a specific modus operandi within the cybercrime phenomenon. No figures can therefore be provided. The College of Attorneys-General has, however, taken an initiative to create a thorough national picture of the facts on cybercrime. This will enable a global review of the facts in the future, of specific modes of operation, of victims, offenders and of legal consequences. Cybercrime findings are also included in the Integrated Police General National Database, but no specific modes of operation are included. The issue of cybercrime is also the subject of the Internal Security Paper 2016-2019 and is therefore a priority, both in terms of prevention, detection and prosecution. Natural and legal persons who are victims of phishing must always report this to the local police. As part of its mission to inform and sensitise users of information and communication systems, the Centre for Cybersecurity Belgium is currently developing an antiphishing project, which will allow Internet users to check the legitimacy of Belgian URL addresses for free. Thanks to this project, users will be sensitised and the number of successful phishing attempts can be reduced.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-30-54-commissie-ic677x.u80	Thank you, Minister, for your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-30-54-commissie-ic677x.u81	Mr President, Minister, during the hearings of the Advisory Committee on Social Emancipation some time ago, the audio-visual recordings of an interview were discussed. How many video interviews have taken place in the context of sexual violence in the last five years, each year and per county, in the case of minor victims? How many video interviews have taken place in the context of sexual violence in the last five years of the year and in the case of adult victims per province? To what extent does a video interview increase the quality of a file? Does it increase the probative value of an interrogation compared to an interrogation that isn't being filmed? Can you explain that? How do you feel about expanding the number of video interviews? Are you planning on doing this? Do you have information about the use of video interviews in this context in our neighbouring countries? Can you explain that? Can you explain how often our neighbouring countries use video interviews in this context?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-30-54-commissie-ic677x.u82	Mr President, Mrs Lijnen, I am sorry that last year's written question on data relating to video interviews in the event of sexual violence has still not been answered. However, my services have not seen the exact number of video interviews for cases of sexual violence. So I do not have the figures you asked for. However, figures on the total number of audio-visually recorded interrogations of minor victims or witnesses are available at the Federal Police Behavioural Sciences Service. Since 2004, they have been kept in an anonymous database on the basis of the data sheets "Interview with audiovisual techniques". The total number of minors questioned was 37 348. It rose from 2 466 chips in 2004 to 5 687 chips in 2013 or 15.58 per day. However, these are only minors, both victims and witnesses, and for more facts than just sexual violence. With regard to the added value of the audio-visual interview for the quality of the research, I can confirm that such interviews have multiple advantages, including that the recording can be used during the session, the emotions can be visible and the video interview can be carried out in depth at once. The DVD of the interview can also, if necessary, be analysed later by a legal expert. In the case of minors, the interview is only conducted by a trained police officer who regularly participates in further training. This also contributes to the quality of the interview. Finally, the progress of the audio-visual interview of the victim will also be improved by updating the Ministerial Letter on audiovisual recordings of the interview of minor victims or witnesses. The letter has now been evaluated and amended.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-30-54-commissie-ic677x.u83	Mr President, Minister, thank you for the figures. I'll take a closer look at them in a minute. I believe that any victim of sexual abuse, minors, of course, who is enshrined in the law, as well as adults, should be subjected to the interview audiovisually, so that they have to endure that hearing once and for all. Audio-visual interrogation should therefore be more of a general use. We will take initiatives to this end.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-30-54-commissie-ic677x.u84	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Calomne, President of the Commission. - (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Lambrecht has converted 18767 into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-30-54-commissie-ic677x.u85	Mr Minister, in the case of the sale or other transfer of a property, the seller must provide the buyer with the full information on that property. This includes the soil attestation, urban intelligence, the EPC and a certificate of electricity verification. Such searches and information are part of the seller's obligation to supply and are necessary for a sale to be legally valid. When a broker draws up the sales contract and executes the related searches, the related costs of the searches are paid to the broker and it is clear that the seller no longer has to pay the notary for the searches that the broker has already carried out. If the broker has not requested the necessary information, the search must be done at the notary office and the associated costs will be charged. On this obvious directive, the Flemish Notary has already made agreements with the CIB a long time ago. However, it turns out that some notaries still charge those costs to the seller, even though the broker has already charged them before. So that indicates a double inning. It is a practice that somewhat ignores the intention to distribute notary costs more fairly and fairly. That is why I have a suggestion, Minister. Can you ask the notary or even advise to explicitly state through their information channels the agreed way of charging such obligation-related costs, namely that either the broker or the instrumental notary will charge these costs together with the other notary costs, so that a double charge is avoided?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-30-54-commissie-ic677x.u86	Mrs Smeyers, I have already given your question to the notarial institutions, and I am sure they will do the right thing. Of course, double collection is not fair and fair and therefore unacceptable. You will no doubt know that if a citizen wishes to resolve his problem in consultation with the notary and the broker, he can always contact the independent Ombudsman for the notary. In such situations, his intervention almost always leads to a solution that provides satisfaction. For the sake of completeness, once the validity of certificates has expired and they have to be renewed according to the rules, they will have to be paid twice in such cases.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-30-54-commissie-ic677x.u87	Thank you, Minister, for your clarification. I am pleased that you have already taken action before I asked this question and that you have already answered the question of reporting it to the federation of notaries, in order to better communicate this information on their website or anywhere else. The Ombudsman does indeed exist and has his function, but if it can be avoided going to the Ombudsman, perhaps we should try to do the same. That means that there is no problem. You are right to point out that this information has a certain period of validity in order to avoid the legal blind spot. In that case, it is indeed necessary that these searches take place twice. Then too, it would be a good thing for the notary to mention this explicitly in a footnote to the invoice, so that the client does not get the wrong feeling that he is being cheated.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-30-54-commissie-ic677x.u88	The combined questions Nos 18817 by Mrs Lambrecht and 18838 by Mrs Becq have been converted into written questions and Question No 18820 by Mrs Lahaye-Battheu.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-30-54-commissie-ic677x.u89	Mr President, I would like to refer to your answer to my written question No. 1616 on the reopening of dismissed rape case files. That answer shows that there is no numerical overview of the problem. In an earlier reply, you wrote: "It is important to note that a dismissal does not mean that the case is finally closed." As long as the limitation period for criminal proceedings has not expired, a case classified without effect may always be reopened, for example if new evidence emerges. A dismissal is therefore always provisional as long as the limitation period of the criminal proceedings has not yet been reached. The same reply showed that between 2010 and 2015 there were 11 665 dismissals for such files. As a follow-up, I have the following questions. Can you explain why there is no figures available? Is it possible to make a global assessment of this? Does it often occur that a non-expired file is later reopened? Will the victim be contacted automatically? Are there certain types of files that are more or less likely to be reopened, for example when there is insufficient evidence originally? Does it often occur that a reopened file leads to a conviction? Can you describe how contact with victims is going? They are normally contacted by letter stating that their case has been dismissed. Is there much other information in addition to the reason, for example insufficient evidence? Do you see room for improvement? Can you explain that in detail? Are there best practices in our neighbouring countries that can be useful here too? Are you planning any initiative and, if so, by when?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-30-54-commissie-ic677x.u90	Mrs Lijnen, the College of Attorneys General's database does not allow an automated extraction of the files reopened following a previous decision to dismiss, for whatever reason that decision was taken. The decision to reopen a case depends on several factors, such as new facts or newly available evidence that can be used in the previously dismissed cases. It may also be the case that the public prosecutor has to establish that a suspended case has now expired or that the reasonable period has been exceeded. Therefore, each case must be assessed individually. In the absence of figures and given the complexity of some rape files in which not only scientific evidence plays an important role, but also the judicial appreciation of the lack of consent, I cannot give a global estimate of how frequently files that have been classified without result are reopened. As regards the provision of information to victims, the victim who has made a declaration of injured person in accordance with Article 5a, Prior Title of the Code of Criminal Procedure, shall be informed of the decision of the public prosecutor. Article 3 of the Prior Title of the Code of Criminal Procedure already imposes that victims of crime and their relatives should be carefully and correctly treated and provided with the necessary information, where appropriate by contacting the specialised services, and in particular with the judicial assistants. I also refer in this respect to the updated Ministerial Directive of 8 February 2017 on sexual aggression set, which draws the attention of the judicial authorities to these obligations, as well as to the possibility of recourse to the Victim Home Service to provide the victim with this information and/or to provide assistance. Thank you, Mrs Lijnen, Mr President.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-30-54-commissie-ic677x.u91	Thank you, Minister, for your reply.
