ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-14-54-commissie-ic687x.u1	Madam President, Minister, an article published last April 29 in the local press refers to the visit of two generals to the Ruquoy district in Tournai to assess its infrastructure and potential. As a reminder, €39 million has been invested in the Tournaise barracks in recent years so that the "Logistic" training of the Centre de compétence de la formation soutien can be provided under the best conditions. Minister, could you tell me what this evaluation was about? What were the objectives? Finally, what conclusions can you draw from this visit?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-14-54-commissie-ic687x.u2	Madam President, Mr Delannois, I believe and I hope it is not a surprise for you if I inform you that I do not know or control the agendas of the generals and other members of the Defence Staff. Your question is based on an article published on April 29. Following your question, I asked my services about the visit of Generals Hennes and Debaene. According to their reports, they visited Tournai on 20 and 23 March, respectively. The former is in charge of human resources, as indicated in the article, and travels through all Defence training centres, in accordance with its responsibilities. He is also responsible for training. As for General Debaene, he is in charge of infrastructure matters, but he is also the oldest logistics officer in Defence. Perhaps you know – because this information is well known – that the latter is the DG of material resources. It was in this capacity that he went to Tournai. In this way, he also found that the City of Tournai was carrying out illegal actions on our sites.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-14-54-commissie-ic687x.u3	Minister, the City of Tournai is doing things on your land illegally?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-14-54-commissie-ic687x.u4	Trees are planted for which there has been no prior notification or permit.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-14-54-commissie-ic687x.u5	Minister, you're saying anything. But, anything! I hope you manage your files better than the one you're referring to because the City of Tournai never illegally occupied National Defence land. We're not telling you anything. You're lying, either because you want it, or because you're being given bad information. You answer my question with another question. On the other hand, to my real question, as to what relationship your two officers in charge of the infrastructure may have made to you, you are not answering. As I said in my question, 39 million euros have been invested in these buildings. These are impeccable. Now, at the bottom of your head, you want to liquidate them. It is above all about this that I wanted to question you. Now, if you have proof that the City of Tournai is occupying certain places illegally, file a complaint! I'm officially asking you to file a complaint against the City of Tournai. This way, you may know your file a little better. You're talking nonsense!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-14-54-commissie-ic687x.u6	To answer your question, I have not received a report and I will file a complaint if necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-14-54-commissie-ic687x.u7	Minister, I do not hope anything happens to you, I tell you right away. But if anything happens to you, I think you should be stuffed because we won't do anything like you anymore!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-14-54-commissie-ic687x.u8	Madam President, I note that this question was linked to a number of other questions relating to the ADIV, the military intelligence service, which we were able to hear today in the press. If I may, I would like to ask a brief supplementary question. At the end of April, the government approved a new version of the Memorandum of Understanding with NATO on cyber defence cooperation. The Prime Minister also announced the approval of the National Cyber Emergency Plan. Cyber safety is an important part of the safety strategy. I have a number of questions about this. Perhaps you will say that I should address some of the questions to the Prime Minister, but I am taking the risk of asking them to you. To what extent does NATO benefit our cyber security? What kind of help will our country get through this agreement? What is expected of us? Can you cite examples from the past where this cooperation has proved its worth? Then I have two more questions about the cyber-emergency plan, perhaps earlier questions for the Prime Minister. Can you explain the objectives of the approved National Cyber Emergency Plan, the what and the how? What concrete projects have already been planned or launched to achieve these objectives? How will the effectiveness of the plan be assessed and how will Parliament be informed? Cases like Wikileaks and Snowden have shown that people working in vital sectors are usually the weakest link. Citizens are becoming increasingly victims of cyber attacks. Think of malware via e-mails, but evil also happens via other channels such as websites and social media. Unfortunately, hardly any action is being taken. Will the National Cyber Emergency Plan bring relief to these areas or will it require anything else? What do you think is needed to mitigate the increasing security risks? Furthermore, we were told today that eight ADIV Commissioners have complained about internal competition, incorrect flow of information, confusion among domestic and foreign partners, mistrust between departments. Therefore, they are not actually tender for the operation of the ADIV. Apparently, this is a letter dated December. There was supposed to be an investigation. It refers to the years of underinvestment for which you are of course not responsible. A catch-up operation would be necessary. I would have liked to know if you could give any response to this at this stage.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-14-54-commissie-ic687x.u9	The combined demand becomes a unique question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-14-54-commissie-ic687x.u10	Madam President, Mr Buysrogge, the aim of the MoU with NATO is twofold: on the one hand, the exchange of information, on the other hand, the possibility of calling for NATO's support to resolve a cyber incident. The exchange of information is of course important in order to compile the intelligence image in the cyber domain and to correctly assess specific cyber threats. The cooperation for the exchange of information, which has become official with this MoU, has been unofficially useful in the past, but especially with regard to our knowledge about techniques, tactics and procedures of cyber actors, and increasing that knowledge. NATO's support for solving a cyber incident has never been invoked to this day, to my knowledge. As far as your questions on the National Cyber Emergency Plan are concerned, I am sorry to inform you that this is the prime minister's responsibility. If so, you can address your questions to him. The fact is that this government takes cybersecurity seriously, very seriously. In this context, it has already taken a large number of measures. Today, among other things, the Cybersecurity Centre is being raided. As you know, the director of the centre comes from our services. As regards your questions about the article that was published today in De Standaard, I can tell you first and foremost that as Minister of Defence, I am absolutely not set up to continue to make internal communication public. It is quite clear that this information is correct and that a letter was sent by a number of people in the department of CI in December to the Minister of Defence and to the Chief of Defence. I can tell you for myself that I have listened to these people and that I have taken note of their complaints. I have asked those responsible to do what is possible for the time being. In this context, I can say that, for example, in the field of recruitment, major steps are being taken and there are heavy accents being placed. What is not possible, however, is that an analyst is recruited within a department of the ADIV today and can be deployed tomorrow. There are a few procedures ahead of that. It is in any case a fact, as has been pointed out on several occasions, that we have certainly taken great steps forward in terms of the elimination of the understaff. At the same time, this is what I did. If I get a complaint from several people within a particular service, then I must, as a minister first and foremost, I think, be somewhat reluctant. As a minister, I cannot replace the relevant department or administration. That is why I have also looked at my options, first and foremost to clarify the merits and the background of the complaints. In this context, I asked the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection to examine the operation of the CI section. In fact, I expect a result from this in the short term.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-14-54-commissie-ic687x.u11	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. With regard to the first part of your answer on cybersecurity, I think that, with regard to platforms set up at national level and internationally, through NATO and other channels, it is interesting that our country can play a tractor role as much as possible. I understand that you refer to the Prime Minister for all the specific questions relating to the National Cyber Emergency Plan and the operation of the Cyber Security Centre. I shall therefore continue to take that up with him. With regard to the last part of your reply, I thank you for your willingness to respond. It is indeed annoying that there have been a number of leaks from the Defense Department in recent years. I do understand your reluctance. As a member of the advisory committee of the Committee I, I will not fail to request further information so that we can also follow up on this dossier.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-14-54-commissie-ic687x.u12	Debates of the European Parliament 18399 by Mrs Fonck and 18438 by Mr De Vriendt are converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-14-54-commissie-ic687x.u13	The next item is questions put by Mr Top, Mr De Vriendt and Mr Buysrogge, but only Mr Buysrogge is present.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-14-54-commissie-ic687x.u14	Mr Minister, on Wednesday 17 May, around 7.00 a.m., three military vehicles almost at the same time fell silent on the Flemish motorways: two vehicles in the Kennedy tunnel, one in the direction of Antwerp and one in the direction of Ghent, and one on the Brussels ring, near the Viaduct of Vilvoorde. The result was heavy traffic pollution, in which even a pile-up of some trucks near the Kennedy tunnel occurred. Meanwhile, a number of articles have been published in the press and rumours have been made that it would not be bad luck but would be a trade union action. Mr Housen of the ACMP did not entirely deny that. He also suspected that it might have something to do with the "hopeless" antiquated material. Therefore, it would be interesting to clarify. In an initial press response, you certainly indicated that you would investigate the case. What caused the breakdown of the three vehicles? Is there indeed a coincidence of circumstances or is there a trade union action? If it was a syndicated action, was it announced? Why did the action go on? Was it an individual action or an action supported by the military trade unions? What are the consequences?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-14-54-commissie-ic687x.u15	Madam President, Mr Buysrogge, every year, the Defense Department carries out millions of kilometres of movements with its vehicle fleet. The chance of simultaneous breakdowns is therefore not really imaginary. In relation to your specific questions, first and foremost the following. I asked for this to be investigated on the merits, especially after Mr Housen's remarks and suspicions, retired, and a number of other adjectives, colonel of our department. I'll give you the facts of the standstill first. The first incident, on the Kennedy tunnel towards Ghent, involved a truck type Volvo of the battalion artillery from Brasschaat, which apparently had an air filter problem. The second incident, on the Kennedy tunnel towards the Netherlands, involved a car of the type Opel Combo of the Belgian Pipeline Organisation. Apparently, the civilian military had a mild heart attack. He was transferred to the hospital by medical services. His vehicle was dragged away by depannage services. The third incident, near the Viaduct of Vilvoorde, involved a camionette of the type Fiat Ducato of the second battalion command. The cause of the breakdown seemed to be an overheated clutch. After cooling off that clutch, the military can continue to drive. I confirm that I have no indications today that there would be any intent on doing so. It is true that Mr Housen, who has just been mentioned, has made innuendo that raises doubts. That's why I asked you to find out all the way to the bone. I can tell you that a number of other trade unions have meanwhile distanced themselves from any active intervention of the military involved, but the ACMP has not done so.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-14-54-commissie-ic687x.u16	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. Indeed, it was striking that these three vehicles would have stopped at the same time. Either there was a confluence of circumstances and they all broke down because the material was outdated, or it was effectively a protest action. I believe that the analysis you are carrying out shows that it was indeed, unfortunately, a confluence of circumstances: on the one hand, due to the faults of the vehicles, namely the coupling and the air filter, on the other hand, due to that mild heart attack. In the meantime, I hope that the military in question will be on a better footing. So Colonel Housen's remarks were at least inappropriate. It is a good thing that the other trade unions distance themselves from that. I hope that the person concerned will come to his senses on a beautiful day, and today is a beautiful day.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-14-54-commissie-ic687x.u17	In the meantime, Mr De Vriendt has arrived. He's entitled to a reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-14-54-commissie-ic687x.u18	Madam President, I was just in time to hear the Minister's reply. I'm sorry I couldn't ask my question because I was on another committee. I believe, Minister, that you must not ignore what has happened. I believe this should alert you, that this is a symptom of military displeasure over a number of issues that have not been resolved. There is the discussion about the retirement age for soldiers, about the absence of a barracks plan worthy of that name, and there is the pressure you continue to put on the operationality of the units by Operation Vigilant Guardian. I think that this is an alarm signal so that you really do work on those files and, in full consultation, arrive at a good solution with the broadest possible support, including from the military themselves. We know that military forces must not stop, but it is logical that they should look for ways to express their displeasure. I say this without wishing to comment on this action, assuming it would be a conscious action. It is logical, however, that, if there is displeasure, we want to express it, whether we like it or not. It's just an additional signal for you to make real work of some pressing problems and hot irons at Defense.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-14-54-commissie-ic687x.u19	Mr De Vriendt, you may have heard my answer in which I said that I have no leads today. There were Mr Housen's statements on television, which gave the impression of a coordinated or uncoordinated action, but I did not get any demands from anyone. Let's get that straight. In addition, if those involved have taken coordinated action, they have not done so on behalf of the trade union. They were responsible for a traffic jam and subsequent accident in that traffic jam, for which they could be held responsible as appropriate. They were responsible, because of the traffic jams, for opening another tunnel free of charge, and there is also a price tag of EUR 42 000. So those involved must be very well aware of the fact that they are military. I can also refer you to the reactions of the military themselves via the social media the day itself, which completely reject this type of action. In view of the context, should we continue with the fact that this was a coordinated action? As far as your comments are concerned, firstly, on the firehouse plan, I wonder who would like to close barracks anyway. I don't think so. Secondly, with regard to pensions, solutions are being worked out. It is not always bad when negotiations and seeking solutions take a little longer. Thirdly, as regards the Vigilant Guardian operation, the three vehicles concerned were not part of the Vigilant Guardian operation. They were all people with a specific logistics task at the time.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-14-54-commissie-ic687x.u20	Minister, you say you have not received demands from the trade unions. You know very well what the concerns are, not only of the trade unions but also of the military themselves.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-14-54-commissie-ic687x.u21	That is why we see the unions every Friday morning to discuss their concerns and to look for solutions. No solutions will be found by causing traffic jams and accidents and by pushing the State for additional costs. That's not gonna happen.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-14-54-commissie-ic687x.u22	You said you didn't get any demands here, but the concerns of the military, of the unions, are well known to you. So there are no excuses in that respect. I agree with you that we should completely reject the action that would have been taken if it had already been an action. That is, of course, irresponsible. I do understand the displeasure of the military about those files and the closing of barracks. The problem is, there's just no clarity. You should not close barracks at all, but take away the uncertainty about that. You won't. That lingers in the thin air and that has caused a lot of uncertainty for years. The rumor stream is being fed, we all know that. That doesn't help the stability of the Defense Department at all.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-14-54-commissie-ic687x.u23	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, the Defence budget is regularly discussed. On the one hand, the outsourcing of certain Defence tasks is being prepared to allow for more savings. On the other hand, it is envisaged that the budget will be increased to 1.3% of Belgian GDP by 2030. It is a great and good goal, which I will support. However, in order for the Belgian army to function perfectly, an impeccable administration is necessary. According to my information, the Central Defence Administration, located in Evere, is a fairly important department. Minister, how many people are engaged at Evere Headquarters? What is the proportion of the Defence budget allocated to the Evere neighbourhood, including operating and personnel costs? What are the tasks of this administration? Will they also be partly outsourced?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-14-54-commissie-ic687x.u24	Madam President, Ms Jadin, the various central departments, directorates-general and headquarters in the Queen Elizabeth district in Evere, excluding the Department of the Intelligence and Security Staff (ACOS IS), have a total of 2,526 personnel, namely 2,213 military personnel and 313 civilian personnel. This means that approximately 10% of the Defence budget is allocated to the personnel and operating costs of the Queen Elizabeth Quarter. Apart from custody and horeca service, I am not considering outsourcing administration services to Evere.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-14-54-commissie-ic687x.u25	Minister, thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-14-54-commissie-ic687x.u26	Madam President, Minister, over the past few years, debates have taken place on several occasions on ammunition and weapons tests at the Lager Elsenborn. The tests that probably made the most noise were those of the MECAR shell manufacturer. But since then, silence has hovered on this subject as the residents continue to hear suspicious shots from time to time. While it is quite normal for the Belgian army to operate in Elsenborn, it has happened to me that the federal police also undertake fire training there. Minister, can you tell me if any private companies are taking ammunition or other tests at the Lager Elsenborn? If so, are foreign companies among them? If not, which public services are allowed to operate there?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-14-54-commissie-ic687x.u27	Madam President, Mrs Jadin, there is no longer any civilian company that carries out munitions and weapons tests privately at the Elsenborn camp. Under existing contracts, Belgian or foreign civil firms may be present during tests of Belgian Defence equipment, in particular in the case of a possible call for guarantee. The police, the State Security, customs, the Department of Nature and Forests of the Wallonia Public Service and, under the cover of it, the Crown Hunts have a State permit for the use of the military domain.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-14-54-commissie-ic687x.u28	Minister, thank you for the clarity of your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-14-54-commissie-ic687x.u29	Mr De Vriendt, you have your questions No. have 18315 and 18438 converted into written questions. I call Mrs Jadin.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-14-54-commissie-ic687x.u30	Minister, part of our army is currently deployed to Lithuania in multinational forces under the aegis of NATO. The establishment of this military arrangement was decided almost a year ago at the last NATO summit in July 2016 in Warsaw. Our soldiers are thus engaged in a vast project aimed at demonstrating NATO's response capabilities to the Russian Federation through a series of military operations. In the article published on May 5, the newspaper La Libre Belgique states that our soldiers will soon participate in the installation of the American-British forces in northeastern Poland. Minister, for how long will this part of our army remain mobilized in Lithuania? Is the sending of new men to Lithuania planned? Is the participation of our army in the installation of the British-American forces in Poland verified? Can the recent statements by US President Donald Trump about NATO have an impact on this mission? This question dates from 5 May, so I already have some answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-14-54-commissie-ic687x.u31	Ms Jadin, Belgium has been participating in NATO's Enhanced Forward Presence with logistical transport capacity since the end of January 2017 until the end of December 2017. The detachment has about 100 soldiers raised every three and a half months, but the number of posts will decrease by about ten from July 2017, following the resumption of some missions by a Luxembourg transport detachment. There are currently no plans to increase our participation during the period mentioned above. So far, our detachment has carried out its missions only in the Baltic States and has therefore not provided support for the installation of United States or British units in Poland. As for President Trump's recent statements, it is premature to predict the consequences for this mission.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-14-54-commissie-ic687x.u32	Madam President, Minister, at the Security Super-Minister's Council of 14 May 2017, there was once again no white smoke for the military who have been waiting more than seven months for their pension scheme to be clarified. However, the government confirmed earlier that the envelope for the heavy-duty functions will amount to 39 million euros in total from 2019. Those who will be included are still for discussion. I have already had a number of debates on this with the Minister for Pensions. Meanwhile, there is understandably a great deal of concern and rumours among the military are increasing. I refer to the previous debate we had on the action or not with defective vehicles. Minister, I have three questions for you. Firstly, is there any clarity about the timing of the pension reform for the military, about the transitional measures, about who would get the status of a heavy occupation and about the budgetary impact of raising the retirement age? Is there any idea of how the strategic vision will have to be adapted to the increase in retirement age, in terms of budget distribution, influx, keeping the army young and so on? Secondly, why does a decision remain undecided? Thirdly, was the DOD involved in discussing the envelope for heavy-duty professions and fixing it at EUR 39 million? In what way? What was the input and what were the demands of the Defense Department in this respect?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-14-54-commissie-ic687x.u33	Madam President, Mr De Vriendt, it is of course a little difficult for you to translate a question and I refer to that in my answer to the next question, but I will try to answer it. The extra Council of Ministers of 14 May dealt with internal security. I can confirm, as has so often been confirmed, that neither the retirement age adjustment nor the defence budget have ever been the subject of any agenda or draft agenda of that meeting. As regards pensions, as already asked in answers to several parliamentary questions, it was agreed with the trade unions that they would submit a memorandum early in 2017 with all their questions regarding pension reform. This memorandum was discussed with them twice. That has given us the opportunity, the Pensions Cabinet and the Defence Office........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ In the meantime, there has been further work on transition measures at both technical and political levels. These, of course, have an impact both on the budgetary aspect of the dossier and on the qualitative and quantitative aspect, namely the evolution of the effectives of Defence. As far as the heavy-duty professions are concerned, I would like to reiterate that the reform of the military's preferential pension system is accompanied by the introduction of the new pension system, which will have to take account of the gravity of the profession. For the latter, the government will take a position, but only after the proposal of the National Pension Committee, whose composition you are undoubtedly aware of. So this is happening under the authority of the Minister of Pensions, and Defence does not sit at the table with that. Both the military trade unions and the military representation have provided text and explanations on the precise content of the military appeal in the National Pension Committee. As far as the impact on the strategic vision is concerned, this is, of course, dependent on what will ultimately be determined as a transitional measure. Today, it is difficult to answer specifically. I have repeatedly said that the strategic vision provides for a number of investments that are absolutely necessary. Also in the field of recruitment and the like, a number of measures are announced which are being converted into implementation schedules and so on today. In the context of the rejuvenation of our defense, there can be no reduction in recruitment.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-14-54-commissie-ic687x.u34	Minister, the big problem is, of course, that the government has decided to raise the retirement age without any compensation for the heavy professions such as those of the military. As Minister of Defense, you will have to knock on the table with the Minister of Pensions to defend the interests of the military. That's actually your job. The consultation on determining the functions of the heavy-duty professions is being conducted, but you have released an envelope of €39 million from 2019, which is also the completely reversed world. I asked what compensation could be granted with an envelope of EUR 39 million. The answer of the Minister of Pensions was appalling: "The government is based on a scenario in which only heavy career years can be compensated from 2018 onwards. That's a complete ridicul because for a soldier who is now 40 or 50 years old, the tough career years would only count from 2018. Moreover, the government also assumed that 20 years of heavy occupation could be compensated by one year of early retirement. That means that someone who is a nurse for 20 years could retire at 66 years instead of 67 years. I think it is impossible to regard military as a normal profession in which one should be able to continue working for up to 67 years. I can't. We are counting on you to support that vision.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-14-54-commissie-ic687x.u35	Mr De Vriendt, if you always complain that there is a great deal of uncertainty and displeasure and that the rumor circuits are spreading, you should read your reply. A new scheme will only apply when the new scheme has been adopted. Anything that applied to that new scheme is considered to be acquired. This is a guarantee given from day one, both to the military themselves through an infoflash as well as to the trade unions. If one wants to pour a sauce of uncertainty about it, then so be it. However, let me be very clear: until a new system is in operation, all rights as they are acquired and built up today have been acquired. Period. They'll be preserved. I will not go into the answer given by the Minister for Pensions because, as I have said, these heavy professions are not within my competence. I have said very clearly for a long time that military is a very specific profession. It is a very specific profession, on the basis of which we are today guaranteeing that everything people have gathered today in terms of seniority, amount of pension and all matters relating to the composition of the pension until the new scheme enters into service, is acquired and continues to be acquired for the future. The new system will only be able to be built up when the new system enters into force. I understand your concern about the feelings of the military and how they see changes coming effectively, but please give a correct interpretation. There is no question of a retirement age of 66 or 67 today. The notification of October last year was very clear about where we should end up. Today we are working hard on transition systems and measures. We also hope to achieve a result with the representatives of our soldiers which, although it will never be enough, can be to some extent satisfactory. The secret of success at such a level is, of course, that there is some confidentiality about it.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-14-54-commissie-ic687x.u36	Excuse me, Minister, but you are entirely responsible for these problems. It is not Green that the retirement age has increased without providing for an exception for heavy professions or for the occupation of military. It's the government that did that. It was also not Green that committed a budget envelope of 39 million euros from 2019. You're part of the government. We didn't decide that. It's a much too thin envelope that doesn't compensate enough. So I am not based on rumours, I am based on government decisions to say that these decisions are bad for the heavy professions and also for the military. Many things have already been decided without any regard for the legitimate concerns of the military themselves. That's the world upside down.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-14-54-commissie-ic687x.u37	Madam President, Minister, the German army is shaken by the discovery of Nazi symbols as well as ultranationalists in its ranks. The scandal came to light two weeks ago when an officer adherent to the ultra-nationalist and xenophobic theses was arrested and the excavations of his barracks made it possible to discover relics of the Wehrmacht stored in a public hall. Although these facts are taking place in Germany, they raise questions and questions about the possibility of similar radicalisation in our barracks. Minister, since 2012, has there been similar radicalization in our barracks, of course radicalization of all kinds? What prevention programs are in place by your department to prevent such incidents?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-14-54-commissie-ic687x.u38	Minister, a right-wing extremist network was unveiled in German defence. Currently 275 suspicious incidents are being investigated by the German military secret service. I believe that this is a very worrying situation. In Belgium, we have also experienced extremism in our army in recent years. These were mainly radically Islamic ideas, extreme right-wing ideas and criminal motorcycle gangs. Following a newspaper article on a Committee I report, you said, in response to my question of 9 December 2015, that the army is already working with trusted people who can detect radicalisation prematurely, and therefore preventively. In addition, you indicated that you would consult with the General Intelligence and Security Service, and that you would also have a discussion with the Chairman of the Committee I, to see how this problem could be dealt with internally. I have the following questions for you. Firstly, how many cases of extremism were involved in the years 2013 to 2017? What analysis do you make on the basis of these figures? Secondly, how many ex-military are known to be radicalized? In what way? Thirdly, what follow-up was given by the ADIV and by the Committee I to the Committee I report at the end of 2015? What services are still involved in this problem? Fourthly, what concrete measures are being taken to actively look for radicalised elements in the Belgian armed forces? Is there a screening in the recruitment and/or training of new recruits and staff? Is there also a screening of activities outside the workplace? Fifth, have these measures been adapted compared to previous years? If so, in what sense? Sixth and finally, what sanctions are provided for in the case of extremism or radicalisation?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-14-54-commissie-ic687x.u39	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the Defence does not have any information suggesting that events of a magnitude comparable to the case which recently broke out in Germany would have taken place in Belgium. Preventive measures include screening military candidates and promoting Defence values to all military personnel. Guidelines for signs of radicalization have also been issued to all units. With regard to the number of cases of extremism, I can tell you that the ADIV follows about 60 members of the Defense Department, who may be in a radicalised, religious environment. I emphasise the use of adjectives and adverbs in this sentence. There are about 60 Members who may be in a radicalised environment. In addition to the file of Blood, Soil, Honor and Trouw of 2006, the file of the Soldiers of Odin, published in the press in 2016, is also known about the extreme right. The rapid detection and internal communication within Defense has had a dissuasive effect on potential new recruits. The military involved have since distanced themselves from the organizations concerned. The extreme leftist philosophy, in particular anarchism and antimilitarism, is by nature a rather external threat. At present, there is only one dossier in that domain that is ongoing and therefore no further information can be provided. For criminal motorcycle gangs, some 30 members of the Defense Department are currently being followed, possibly involved. This is once again a question of possible involvement in the process of restructuring. Moreover, an annual evaluation based solely on figures is not relevant, since there are annual files and files are closed without result either because of lack of basis or because the person concerned has since left Defence. Moreover, there are soldiers who only temporarily explore a certain idea and also leave permanently. We have already had the debate on this in committee. It's not because of a thought that someone can simply be banned from the DOD. It's about actions, among other things. To indicate what is worth a thought, I can tell you that there are even cases of individuals switching extreme ideas from one to another. About thirty individuals, who in the past were the subject of an investigation by the Defense Department, have since left Defense. As regards the follow-up to the Committee I report of the end of 2015, I would like to point out that a specific service has already been established in 2012 with the aim of preventing, deterring and, where appropriate, removing personnel from Defence. Due to the lack of a legal definition of the terms radicalism and radicalisation, the ADIV relies in its operation on the Radicalism Action Plan. The specific service responsible for monitoring the radicalism files follows the activities of individuals who may have links with the environment of radical Islam, extreme right, extreme left, anarchism and antimilitarism. Adherence to such ideas could lead to terrorist activities, sabotage, subversion or crime that harm the Defense or its orders. The competent department conducts its investigations in the greatest discretion, both on a charge and on a charge basis, with all legal means and under the control of the Committee I. Moreover, the ADIV works closely with both Belgian and foreign partner services in these cases. All candidate military, civilian personnel and firms whose personnel have access to Defence installations have been subject to systematic security screening since 2013. Defence personnel engaged in operations or carrying out a mission on national territory shall be subject to screening as provided for in the Law of 11 December 1998 on classification and security clearances. The measures in force have not been adapted in recent years as screening is taking place at the time of recruitment and, in fact, a first study has already been carried out proactively. The measures and sanctions are set out in detailed instructions. As soon as the competent authority finds that possible crimes have taken place, the judicial authorities shall be immediately informed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-14-54-commissie-ic687x.u40	Madam Chair, I thank the minister for his even more comprehensive response than I expected. This is probably due to the fact that my colleague Yüksel has asked specific questions about the different types of radicalism that exist. It is very interesting and reassuring to know that the Defence ensures that these monitored persons cannot exceed their prerogatives. I heard they were being watched very closely.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-14-54-commissie-ic687x.u41	Thank you, Minister, for your detailed reply on the various forms of extremism. In this context, continuous follow-up is important. Screening in recruitment is, of course, very important in order to prevent people joining the defense from following an extremist approach. You say that since 2013 systematic checks have been carried out and that the measures that have been in force since then remain in place. On the basis of the incident in Germany, I warn against underestimating the guidance on the workplace. There too, we must look for ways to prevent people from following extremist ideas or joining organizations in this sense.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-14-54-commissie-ic687x.u42	Madam President, Minister, I would like to ask you about the NATO Summit but about a very specific point. During the Alliance Summit in Brussels, the allies decided to bring NATO into the coalition against Daesh. So far, although NATO has made surveillance aircraft available to the coalition, it had no say. In practical terms, it would appear that this decision will allow NATO to increase its level of participation on the ground by participating in training and training missions of local security forces in Iraq, although, obviously - I hope you will confirm this - there would be no question at this stage of sending combat troops to the ground. Minister, what was Belgium's position on this issue when it came to the agenda? What will be the operational, diplomatic and political consequences of this decision to bring NATO into the coalition against Daesh?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-14-54-commissie-ic687x.u43	Madam President, Mr Crusnière, at the Summit on 25 May 2017, the Alliance approved an action plan for a greater contribution to the fight against terrorism. Thus, NATO will become a full member of the international coalition in which the twenty-nine allies already participate. This will enable NATO to participate in political deliberations, including in the coordination of training and capacity building. The Alliance will increase its support to the coalition by providing AWACS surveillance aircraft to improve airspace management. A concrete contribution from the Alliance will focus in particular on the post-conflict phase, particularly in the area of training and training of Iraqi security troops. In addition, a Terrorism Intelligence Unit will be established to facilitate the sharing of information among allies, particularly with regard to the threat posed by foreign fighters. Belgium has not opposed NATO's participation in the coalition because not only is this participation a logical follow-up to the effective participation of the twenty-nine states, but it will also improve our mutual coordination and strengthen our partnership with the European Union in the fight against terrorism, since the European Union has already been a member of the coalition for a long time.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-14-54-commissie-ic687x.u44	Minister, thank you for that clarification. I hear there was indeed a request. I can understand that the Alliance is taking part. This will allow him, as you say, to be also present at coordination. I imagine that this participation may, at some point, lead to an additional request for Belgium under NATO. In this regard, I would like to recall what I said earlier. I reiterate the request that, if the scope and type of action envisaged by our Government are changed, the debate also take place in this Parliament, as the resolution provides.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-14-54-commissie-ic687x.u45	Madam President, Minister, the written press has echoed the work of our units on Iraqi soil, particularly around Mosul. In addition to observation of special units through the use of drones, Belgium supports the coalition with its F-16s and its Special Operations Surgical Team. In the future, our forces should be reinforced by 14 units of armoured vehicles. Minister, have our units ever been attacked, for example, with drones from the Islamic State? Will our soldiers be exposed in the event of the fall of Mosul and the flight of Daesh troops? How many Belgian military personnel does Belgium intend to send? How many are currently present?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-14-54-commissie-ic687x.u46	Minister, I agree with Mr Jadin's question. We have also discussed the possible extension of the mission in Iraq and Syria in the course of the work. In the middle of May, the government was asked by the United States to be active longer in the mission. This was also confirmed by the members of the government present at the Joint Defence and External Relations Commission on 23 May. The Prime Minister then noted that the government was prepared to consider the extent to which it was possible to respond to that request and that the deployment was not included in the operational planning for Defence. Meanwhile, the Netherlands has stated that it will not take over from our Defence on 1 July. During that joint committee, you also had your personal cards looked at in relation to your attitude to the United States' question. So my question is actually a follow-up question. Has the government already given an answer to the United States? If so, what was the Government's response? If not, what is the time frame for making that decision, given that our mission ends in theory on 30 June? If our defense were to continue on the mission, what would be the cost and with what budgets could that be financed? Will the Netherlands be able to contribute to this? Is it taken into account in the planning during the summer months to allow the participating air force units to take some leave? Finally, at the Council of Ministers on 2 June it was decided to extend the land forces deployed in the international coalition. In what way will they be expanded? What tasks will they be assigned to? What is the cost and timing of this?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-14-54-commissie-ic687x.u47	Mrs Jadin, mijnheer Buysrogge, first of all, I would like to point out that all the data concerning this operation are regularly communicated to the Committee on Monitoring Operations Abroad. Our troops operate from positions held by the Kurdish army in the Kurdish zone. The probability of Belgians encountering members of the fleeing Daesh is very low. At present, some 10 Belgian military personnel are in Baghdad, where they provide training to Iraqi military personnel, while some 20 of them operate from northern Iraq, where, in close cooperation with their Dutch counterparts, they assist and advise Iraqi and Kurdish units in their fight against Daesh. The situation in Iraq is changing very rapidly. Iraqi troops must now advance in reconquered areas that have not yet been cleared of mines, unexploded ordnance or improvised devices. Currently, our troops in Iraq have civilian armoured vehicles. To provide our troops with maximum passive protection, it was decided to deploy Dingo military armoured vehicles. The commitment of these vehicles does not change the risk mitigation and operational control measures that are already applicable in this operation. Since 4 June 2017, the Belgian contribution mentioned above has therefore been reinforced by around 14 military personnel and these armoured vehicles. The total cost of this extension is estimated at EUR 1 202 555. This is reflected in the internal changes in the Defence budget. Mr Buysrogge, the extension of the F-16s against ISIS is currently under discussion in the government. I hope that we will be able to take a decision on this in the Council of Ministers in the next week. A reply to the United States will of course be given after the decision. The total cost of extending the deployment of our F-16 debt instruments under certain conditions is estimated at 23 076 550 euros gross and 16 975 703 euros net. The planned compensations of the Netherlands include the delivery of the corresponding detachment Force Protection and, among other things, the acquisition of the Benelux-QRA turn-over until the end of this year. Other possible consideration will be examined, for example the acquisition by the Netherlands of the turn role in ODF for the full year 2018. A financial concession from the Netherlands is not common in such operations and I do not know whether there are any legal grounds for that. In any case, it is being continued. In the Netherlands a cabinet is currently being formed and how it is going is the subject of media coverage. However, the fact that the Netherlands is in the cabinet-building procedure means that very concrete agreements and decisions are more difficult today. In the short term, however, the Dutch no longer have to make decisions. I can tell you that during the summer months, Defense is working on flexible planning, so that short rotations of personnel can take place, thus minimising the impact on summer leave for the military and their families.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-14-54-commissie-ic687x.u48	Thank you for your reply, Minister. I understand from your reply that the government is likely to take a decision in the next week, which will be unforgiving. I also understand that, in the summer months, that is important for our military services, family planning is being taken into account and that this will be followed up flexibly. You have listed budgets which, I suspect, were not originally registered, since they were not provided for. I believe that it is good to consider everything, with a view to an important decision, especially in view of the fact that the next six months will be crucial in the fight against IS. It is important that we in the international coalition, which is now also supported by NATO, make every effort to defeat IS.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-14-54-commissie-ic687x.u49	Minister, in order to fully integrate into the Single European Sky programme, civilian and military air control will be gathered at the Belgocontrol site in Steenokkerzeel. This programme requires greater cooperation between the various actors involved in air transport. The move would be planned for 2019 while the whole process would end around 2030 with savings of around 50 to 60 million euros and a sharing of knowledge and experience leading to better synergy. Minister, what is the timetable for the full implementation of the Single European Sky programme in Belgium? In concrete terms, what will be the benefits of this collaboration? How does your department welcome the implementation of this programme?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-14-54-commissie-ic687x.u50	Mevrouw de voorzitster, Mrs Jadin, the Single European Sky project is still under way. We are still waiting for new regulations. We can expect the implementation of the project to continue well after 2030. Defence follows and complies with this European regulation. Close cooperation with Belgocontrol will have several advantages, both in terms of staff and budget. In the area of operations, air traffic control services will be co-located and will initially work side by side. The services will be gradually integrated into an entity composed of civilians and military personnel. As regards the meteorological service, joint and centralised activities in support of aviation will also be integrated. In both areas, a gradual integration of staff training is also planned. The integration of the various operational units will further strengthen existing technical cooperation. The establishment of the Single European Sky programme is welcomed by the Defence, as it is a standardisation of aeronautical rules in European airspace.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-14-54-commissie-ic687x.u51	Minister, thank you for these answers. I understand that things are getting serious, even if the full implementation will only take place well beyond 2030.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-14-54-commissie-ic687x.u52	As Mrs Vanheste has not informed us, her question No. 18918.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-14-54-commissie-ic687x.u53	Madam President, Minister, this May 29, the double "bang" characteristic of an aircraft exceeding the sound wall was heard on a vast area covering the Hainaut and Walloon Brabant. The press relays the fears and emotions of people surprised by this detonation. In the ears of uninitiated people, this sudden noise can be considered an explosion. In the current context of understandable fear of attacks, this powerful noise can be traumatic. The shock wave shakes the glazing of the houses. Minister, could you confirm to me that it was one of our military aircraft that produced this detonation? If so, is it within the framework of a Quick Reaction Alert (QRA)? If so, what were the requirements and conditions that led to this QRA? Could you recall what conditions permit the exceedance of Mach 1, or even more, for Belgian Air Force aircraft? Thank you for your answers and the follow-up you will give to this file.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-14-54-commissie-ic687x.u54	Mr Flahaux, thank you for your question. I can confirm that on May 29, 2017, a Belgian F-16 crossed the sound barrier. Existing regulations have been complied with. I have already explained this regulation several times. This was also the case when I answered your colleague Mr Georges Dallemagne's oral question No 9816 of 1 March 2016. In this case, it was not an ARQ but a test. It is well specified in the regulations that these tests are carried out at more than 36,000 feet after extensive maintenance. The rules are clear and you can find them in my answer to Mr Dallemagne's question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-14-54-commissie-ic687x.u55	Madam President, I thank the Minister for his full answer and I will consult with interest the answer given to my colleague, Mr Dallemagne.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-14-54-commissie-ic687x.u56	Madam President, Minister, as I said earlier, I tabled a motion for a resolution on the advertising of missions abroad and, at a previous committee meeting, I asked for your opinion on this. More than a month and a half has passed, so I have allowed myself to put a question so that you can let us know your point of view and we can move on to that point in committee. I would therefore like to ask you one more time about the overview of Belgian missions abroad and the systematic transmission to our Assembly of the plan of military operations for the coming year at the time of the budgetary debates, as you did for the 2017 budget at the request of my group. It is in this sense that I have drafted, together with my colleagues, a very clear motion for a resolution that takes into account all the necessary security rules for our Defence and our military. It must be noted that it seems difficult to obtain your opinion on the matter, despite the promises made in committee. Meanwhile, the Defence site remains very weak and, above all, out of step with ongoing missions. I recall that, according to the site, we are still present in Antarctica while it has been a long time since we left it. Minister, would you agree to publish all of the public information in the Operations Plan provided to the House on the Defence website in the overview of our military operations and exercises around the world and to update this information whenever it is relevant? Would the publication that was made at your request – and I thank you for it – during the previous budgetary debate in the House's Annals be unconstitutional, as some of my colleagues have mentioned, invoking a derogation from Article 167 of the Constitution? Do you intend to make a commitment to systematically attach to your policy note the military operations plan for the coming year and to notify the House when it becomes necessary to update the data contained in this plan?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-14-54-commissie-ic687x.u57	Madam President, Mr Crusnière, Defence communicates its ongoing operations monthly via a press briefing. As a result, a document with a map of the world showing visually all current operations and summarizing all ongoing operations and highlights is published on the Defence website. In the past, Defence organized this press briefing on a weekly basis. As the interest of the press diminished, the staff decided to organize it only on a monthly basis. Article 167 of the Constitution stipulates that the King shall command the armed forces and shall observe the state of war and the end of hostilities. It shall inform the Chambers as soon as the interest and the State Security permit by attaching appropriate communications. As Minister of Defence, I can inform the current or planned Chamber of Defence Operations when deemed appropriate. By systematically and structurally linking the operational plan for the coming year to the policy note, this amendment is coercive in nature, which, in my view, cannot be the objective. The policy note must in fact be voted on by 5 December of the year at the latest. The operational plan is a document with a different dynamic. It must not be ready at the same time as the political note and, moreover, it is not a competence of the House or Parliament to vote on the plan of operations, this having in mind Article 167 of the Constitution. However, Mr. Crusnière, as Minister of Defence, I pledge to the extent possible to bring to the attention of the House the plan of operations for the coming year in the margins of the discussion of the political note. I am of good will. When the plan is finished and approved by the government, nothing will stop me from bringing it to the House.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-14-54-commissie-ic687x.u58	Minister, thank you. You reassured me on several points, and first of all on your availability to communicate the documents. Symbolically, this is important, and you have done so as part of the discussions for the 2017 budget. We had already welcomed this gesture on several occasions, and the latter led to this motion for a resolution. Once again, thank you. You also reassure me on the point concerning Article 167. You can, of course, do it. I've always been in your opinion. During the panel discussions, members of your group and the CD&V began to challenge this possibility and even to say that it was not constitutional. It was still quite disturbing when you made this publication. It is therefore important to make this clarification today in the context of this question. I request, Madam President, that this text be put on the agenda as soon as possible, since we now have the Minister's opinion. We learned that the minister was in favour of it, and that it was not contrary to the Constitution. Thus, all the arguments that had been raised in committee are now being scrutinized. I therefore ask you to put this matter back on the agenda as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-14-54-commissie-ic687x.u59	Before we move on to Mr Yüksel's question on bullet-proof vests, I would like to ask if anyone can replace me. It's just about four more questions, but I really need to go to an appointment. That's annoying. Mr Van Mechelen, you must go to the Conference of Presidents. Mr. Crusnière, can you replace me? It is Mr Yüksel who must now ask a question. Would you mind replacing me for a second? Then Mr Yüksel can replace you when you ask a question. That way we're out of trouble. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-14-54-commissie-ic687x.u60	Minister, the increased level of terror and military deployment in the context of Operation Vigilant Guardian means that Defense is in short supply of bulletproof vests. More than 1 000 soldiers have to wear a vest every day to guard strategic locations and buildings in our country. Because of the shortage, the vests that the military wear are often not in the right size, incomplete or dirty. As a result, more and more soldiers buy their own equipment. As bulletproof vests are part of a military's basic protective equipment, it is necessary for the Defence Department to take the necessary measures in this respect. I have the following questions for you. Firstly, what is the shortage of bulletproof vests, given the current deployment in the Vigilant Guardian operation? Secondly, General Marc Thys of the land component has already indicated that an initial order has been placed and that 12 000 additional vests will be delivered. At what time will these additional vests be delivered? Is the order all right? If not, do you provide additional orders? Thirdly, are there other parts of the basic equipment that are not or are not in sufficient stock? If so, do you also provide for additional purchases? Fourthly, how are the quality requirements of bulletproof vests guaranteed? After all, military people buy them themselves on the internet or in certain things. So how is the protection of the military that bought the vest itself guaranteed?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-14-54-commissie-ic687x.u61	Mr Yüksel, the shortages of bulletproof vests that occurred after the attacks, when Defense was deployed with over 1 800 soldiers in support of the police, were covered by cooperation with the Americans. Those American vests are still in our possession today, but are only used as a reserve stock. Therefore, only people with specifically approved bulletproof vests supplied by the Belgian Defence Department are on the streets. Important to know is that a bulletproof vest consists of two undervests, in which ballistic protection is placed. One is worn, the other serves as a reserve. Because of the size distribution, the margin is limited. Investors should also be passed on. In addition, it could be that not everyone always has the right size. However, protection is always guaranteed, but sometimes at the expense of comfort. That was a known problem and in order to remedy it, an order of 12 000 additional undervests were placed that have already been ordered for a while and are expected in the second half of 2017. This will allow everyone to have the right size of an undercoat. In 2016, additional orders were already placed from the combat shirt, a long-sleeved T-shirt that is worn under ballistic protection and provides a better heat drain than the classic T-shirt. A large part of the supply was apparently carried out last week, so that the distribution, which had been temporarily closed by a deficit in certain sizes, could be resumed in the course of June. The balance of delivery is scheduled for the third quarter of 2017, after which all deficits will be resolved. However, I would like to stress, Mr Yüksel, that the use of self-purchased bulletproof equipment is, in principle, prohibited and certainly not recommended. Defence can only guarantee the quality of the equipment it has tested, purchased and distributed to its staff. It is a task of the military hierarchy to ensure, through supervision at all levels, that people do not leave with materials of questionable quality.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-14-54-commissie-ic687x.u62	Minister, I am pleased to hear that the 12 000 investors will be delivered in the second half of this year. You say in your last reply that the use of self-purchased vests or equipment is not permitted by the Defense Department. Your general of the land component says this is a common practice. Let me quote how he recognizes the problem: 'Generally, the equipment has really improved for the infantry soldier, but in my time as a lieutenant I also had my own tent and sleeping bag simply because they were better than what Defence gave us'. There are two negative elements in my view. First of all, you say that one should not actually use it. In the example given by the general, it is about a tent, but you say that we can only guarantee the quality of our own, inspected, equipment. Secondly, it is said here that what one buys outside, in the private sphere, is often of better quality than what one gets from Defence. That's what a general of the land component says. Then I guess something's not right.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-14-54-commissie-ic687x.u63	Mr Yüksel, first of all I would like to say that I am not the inventor of the famous concept of pooling and sharing. Throughout my strategic vision and in every action I take today, I am in favour of each individual military having the equipment he needs to perform his job properly and safely. Pooling and sharing is not my invention, especially as regards individual safety equipment. Secondly, I should like to point out that, for example, I, too, have a telephone from the cabinet and I myself choose the cover for that phone. These are, of course, matters that each professional does for himself in one way or another. Now, the examples you quoted and also the examples that General Thys quoted in the interview in question are very clear. Mr Yüksel, I think we both agree that a tent or a sleeping bag is quite different from basic safety equipment such as bulletproof or shaving-proof vests. I do not know the equipment of those people, who were mentioned earlier by the former colonel with many other adjectives. I don't know if those vests are the same or at least suitable for putting in the ballistic plates we need. I would like to draw your attention to that. It's about undervesting, not about complete systems, because in that case there are problems. I say again that Defence can only vouch for its personnel if its personnel work with equipment that has been inspected, purchased and offered by the Defence Department to its staff.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-14-54-commissie-ic687x.u64	Mr. Yüksel, for the last word?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-14-54-commissie-ic687x.u65	Minister, I think we are saying the same thing. For important equipment, basic equipment, in any situation, I assume that our personnel will receive protection and equipment from Defence itself. So it is completely out of the question that people would spend private money for that. The article covers amounts of up to EUR 3 000. That's absolutely impossible. If that happens, I think there is a fundamental structural problem. I find it somewhat strange that you include the element of pooling and sharing. In my view, that has nothing to do with this.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-14-54-commissie-ic687x.u66	All right.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-14-54-commissie-ic687x.u67	I find it bizarre that the commander of the land component simply says that it was the same in his time. I think that points to a clearly structural, serious problem. Just as our soldiers are carrying out protection orders on the street, they have to buy their own protective equipment.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-14-54-commissie-ic687x.u68	Mr President, I would like to correct that. Mr Yüksel, pooling and sharing means that we are purchasing just enough material to be operational. Based on this, there were some shady vests available within the system, but not enough to demonstrate the operationality that should be shown. That's pooling and sharing, and that's where we're bumping into the boundaries of that system. You once again make it appear as if staff members are obliged to buy their own equipment, which I absolutely wish to contest. Our people get everything they need to do their job. I still did my military service. The place I had to sleep in wasn't really waterproof. If it was bad weather, it wasn't very nice. The sleeping bag I had, I sweated too much in the summer and had cold in the winter. That one bought one's own equipment at that time, I can imagine. However, I can also tell you that the equipment made available by the Defence Department to the military is today of a more than acceptable quality. For some, it'll never be enough. There are also people who just believe in their job and do something more from there. There are also companies today that make a basic computer available, but if one wants something more, one can fix something and then one gets a better computer. Those are things that happen. People who believe in their jobs are willing to invest in them. I absolutely want to deny that it would be a necessity for people to purchase equipment that they absolutely need for the safe execution of their jobs. That is not the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-14-54-commissie-ic687x.u69	Mr Minister, I am only going to continue with what I have read in the press. I'd like to make another quote. This is a testimonial, I quote: 'In my unit, up to half of the boys who are standing on the premises will have bought themselves a vest.' They are also just better, especially if you have to stand on the street for hours. I'm gonna go back to what you just said. It is prohibited to use their own equipment. You just said that. I'm talking about safety equipment, about vests. I'm not talking about tents and sleeping bags or anything. When it comes to vests, I believe that military personnel must have the equipment that has been inspected, labelled and purchased by the Defense Department. There are soldiers who use their own purchased vests and they go into the error according to your reasoning. You also believe that action should be taken against this. My point is that defense soldiers should always be able to get the equipment they need. When people take initiatives themselves, things go wrong somewhere. This testimony proves that.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-14-54-commissie-ic687x.u70	Mr.President, Minister, in the government agreement on "The Strategic Vision for Defence 2030", concluded in 2016, the issue is the purchase of armed drones. The use of such lethal tactical weapons in conflicts is becoming more widespread. The surveillance and combat drones of the Predator and Raptor family, developed by General Atomics, are among the most used in the world, mainly by the various branches of the American army, but also by France, the United Kingdom, Italy and the Netherlands. However, according to the media, the various European countries that have these weapons could use them only where the United States would allow them to do so. It would be more a rental of technology with US personnel than a purchase. These countries would therefore be subject to the strategic and geopolitical choices of the United States. Europe, for its part, is trying to catch up with Israel – very early; I was able to see it – and with the United States by developing its own technology. Minister, have you already launched the bidding procedures for the model and the manufacturer of armed drones as part of this strategic vision of our Defence? Can you confirm this information relayed by the press that the United States would retain the choice of war zones for the use of drones manufactured by General Atomics? What is your opinion on the perceived lack of freedom for European countries in this matter? What would be the economic benefits that Belgium could negotiate if it chose General Atomics? As a member of the European Union, in terms of economic benefits in particular, would the choice of a European model not be wise, even if it would have to be delayed?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-14-54-commissie-ic687x.u71	Mr. Flahaux, the staff is currently exploring the market. As a result, no tender was issued for the purchase of Remotely Piloted Aircarft Systems armed. The problem of economic benefits is a competence of the SPF Economy. The strategic vision provides for the purchase of MALE-type drones (medium altitude, long endurance) in two phases. The first phase provides for the delivery of two MALE systems from 2021 onwards to replace the obsolete B-Hunter system. Postponing the first phase until a European system is in place will probably not take place until 2025. This will mean that Belgium will no longer have this capacity by 2020 and that the current expertise at the fourth UAV will be lost. The purchase of European drones will be evaluated in the second phase and their delivery scheduled for 2029 - 2030. In this context, Belgium currently has observer status in the European MALE programme within the OCAR.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-14-54-commissie-ic687x.u72	Minister, I realize through your response that we are only at the beginning of the process as you are referring to the exchanges of 2025 and 2030. I imagine that by then the technology will have evolved considerably. We're doing some kind of catch-up. Thank you for your answer, which demonstrates your interest in this technology.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-14-54-commissie-ic687x.u73	Minister, in the RFGP for the replacement of our F-16s, 10% of the points are reserved for the protection of the so-called essential security interests. In your strategic vision, you explicitly state that you want maximum economic return for our business. However, the Finance Inspectorate has a lot of doubts about this. Economic compensation is no longer permitted by the European Union, except through a strict definition of the essential security interests through Article 346 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. This does not seem to be the case here; this exception does not seem to apply here. The Treasury Inspectorate is talking about legal risk derivatives. The European Commission issued the Defence Procurement Directive in 2009 for a reason. In order to invoke Article 346, only safety arguments should be used, not economic arguments. Since 2009, this interpretation has only become stricter. It is quite simple: calling for economic compensation in Article 346 is simply no longer allowed. Even if the Defense Procurement Directive does not apply, for example in the case of government-to-government contracts, the restrictive interpretation of Article 346 shall continue to apply. Moreover, the Finance Inspectorate says that false expectations are being created about the scale of the economic compensation. After all, the development of fighter aircraft is already advanced, so the benefits for our companies will not be great. Firstly, has the government tested the RFGP and the implementation of the essential security interests in the European Union? If so, when exactly and with whom? What was the European opinion in the file? I would like to have a copy of all the documents, correspondence and minutes, which show that there has been a contact with the EU on this issue. If there hasn't been any contact, will you? Secondly, how do you respond to the advice of the Treasury Inspectorate? Why did the government ignore that advice?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-14-54-commissie-ic687x.u74	Mr De Vriendt, neither European directives nor Belgian legislation require prior consultation of the European Union in order to invoke Article 346 of the Treaty. The government implements the coalition agreement within the contours permitted by European legislation. I believe that the decisions taken in the file are perfectly justifiable. Secondly, as far as the opinion of the Finance Inspector is concerned, it is good that documents made available behind closed doors are brought out by any means. I take note again of the fact that it is difficult to treat a number of matters confidentially. I would like to remind you that the opinion of the Finance Inspector on the RFGP was very positive. You make it appear that the Finance Inspector has given me an opinion in which he has to write me back, as I have to read in the newspaper. I have more and more confidence in the price of the newspapers. I can only inform you that, with a positive opinion from the Finance Inspector, the government has taken the decision to send out the RFP, as it has been sent out.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-14-54-commissie-ic687x.u75	Mr Minister, you say that consultation with Europe on Article 346 is not mandatory, but has this consultation been carried out by the Belgian Government?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-14-54-commissie-ic687x.u76	Not by my services.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-14-54-commissie-ic687x.u77	Not by your services? That's not serious.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-14-54-commissie-ic687x.u78	I mentioned this earlier today, Mr De Vriendt.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-14-54-commissie-ic687x.u79	Who would do that except for your services?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-14-54-commissie-ic687x.u80	My services are the services of Defence, which, according to European regulations, first and foremost want to have a new capacity in the future. When we talk about the share of protecting our security interests, we are talking about a specific contribution from the FPS Economy. That is why I say that there has been no contact with the European Commission or any European service from the ACAP team as far as I know. I do not exclude that the FPS Economy or the people responsible for this within the FPS Economy have ever had contact with Europe on that basis. I can only imagine that they can verify the accuracy of the things that are being put forward in every way possible. In any case, I say that there has been no formal contact, in my view.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-14-54-commissie-ic687x.u81	Well, then it's up to us to ask that further. I note that there has been no contact from the Defence Department with the European Union about the interpretation of Article 346, although you do call for the RFGP to be drawn up, especially on the grounds that 10% of essential security interests are involved in the government award, and that award is still with you. You're authorized to handle the purchase file, aren't you? If you, as Minister, decide to register in the award procedure that this concerns 10% of essential security interests, you say that you did not test that out in the European Union. That's what you said.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-14-54-commissie-ic687x.u82	Indeed, I did not test that out in the European Union. I'd just like to know the following from you. In the same newspaper we see on one page that 10% is far too little and on another page that 10% is far too much. I'd like to know your opinion. I would like to know whether you think that our own industry and technology should be allowed to make such important investments or not. Be clear about that. Last week, your colleagues from the PS voted against a purchase file that is very important for our Belgian industry. Well, be clear. Is 10 % too much or too little? Or is it perhaps an acceptable whole, legal for Europe, and at the same time perhaps just not enough for what we want? I would also like to draw attention to the fact that we are talking about 10% of the items allocated. We are not talking about 10% of the value of the contract amount or 10% of the value of the life-cycle cost. We are talking about 10% of the points allocated in the context of the various elements which will form part of the evaluation of the tenders.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-14-54-commissie-ic687x.u83	Minister, the fact is that you have, of course, promised economic compensation, but the Finance Inspectorate says that you will not be able to deliver them.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-14-54-commissie-ic687x.u84	Is it too little or too much?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-14-54-commissie-ic687x.u85	That is what she says, firstly because there is a problem with the implementation of essential security interests and, secondly, because it is very likely that the return will ultimately be very limited. We have no problem with our companies taking advantage of a foreign order. Only you have to be able to live up to it. We warn against the artificial delivery of such a foreign order on the basis of economic compensation, because this has already led in the past to, among other things, pumped up price tags and orders that are not optimal in terms of price-quality.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-14-54-commissie-ic687x.u86	Chairperson: Peter Buysrogge. On the advice of the Treasury Inspectorate, you say it was positive. That's right. The overall opinion was positive, but the Treasury Inspectorate did formulate critical comments.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-14-54-commissie-ic687x.u87	Let me make it clear that it is the task of the Finance Inspectorate to give critical advice.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-14-54-commissie-ic687x.u88	Yes, but the Treasury Inspectorate could also deliver a 100 percent positive opinion, without any critical comments. The question here is what you have done with these critical remarks. Apparently, you didn't do anything about it, you just did it and formulated the RFGP as you wanted it to be. We are also learning here today that you did not test that out in the European Union either.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-14-54-commissie-ic687x.u89	Question No 1, by Mr De Pasquale (H-l 19261, 19262 and 19263 Mr Calomne's 19264 were converted into written questions or postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-14-54-commissie-ic687x.u90	Minister, on the margins of the current Princely Economic Mission to Korea, your Foreign Affairs colleague met in Seoul with the Commander-in-Chief of the United States Forces in South Korea, General Vincent Brooks. According to the press, he spoke with him about the possibility of Belgian participation "symbolic but useful" in certain American-UN exercises on the peninsula, to improve Belgian military intelligence on the conflict and to push the path of dialogue. Minister, has a decision ever been made on such a potential UN mission at the government level? What would potentially be the human and material means that could be deployed within this UN framework by our army? Would such an operation be possible in the context of your 2017 budget?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-14-54-commissie-ic687x.u91	Mr President, Mr Crusnière, to date no such request or proposal has been received. If that were to be the case, the Defence would of course consider both the opportunity and the feasibility of such an initiative. In addition, this type of activity in this region of the world is not included in the 2017 Operations Plan. It is therefore not budgeted.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-14-54-commissie-ic687x.u92	I thank the minister for his answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-14-54-commissie-ic687x.u93	Mr President, Minister, on 8 May Reuters issued a press release after it had been able to look at a confidential report from the German Ministry of Defence stating that technical problems at Airbus could lead to a delay in the delivery of the A400Ms ordered. The report indicates that Airbus does not have sufficient resources to make the necessary improvements to the transport aircraft. Last week we also received the message that the Belgian C-130 transport aircraft must remain on the ground due to technical malfunctions. Mr Minister, could you explain a little more about the reasons why the C-130 dynamometers should remain on the ground? When could they be operational again? Are you aware of the report of the German Ministry of Defence on the A400M? What's your assessment of that report? Can you indicate whether this will jeopardise the delivery period of the A400Mphs intended for Belgium? Is such a scenario envisaged to compensate for the cost of exceeding the prescribed delivery periods? Have you been able to establish agreements with Airbus on this matter? What consequences would a possible delay in the delivery of the A400Mphs mean for the use of the C-130 devices? Do you foresee any extension of the use of the C-130s and an approach to the technical problems of the aircraft? What budgetary impact will a possible extension of the use of the C-130 debt instruments entail?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-14-54-commissie-ic687x.u94	Mr President, Mr Yüksel, following a series of incidents involving several C-130 aircraft, the C-130 fleet has been kept on the ground as a precaution for two weeks to carry out an in-depth investigation. In cooperation with industrial partners, all parts of the flight control propulsion systems are examined closely. The necessary corrective actions shall be carried out on the entire fleet in order to make it operational as soon as possible. As I have already answered a parliamentary question from Mr Hellings earlier this year, the existing A400M fleet last year had a problem with transmission or shipment. Tests are currently being carried out to address the specific problem with an adapted transmission. That would not affect the delivery time of the aircraft, which is foreseen for our Defense within a few years. Also in an answer to questions from Mr Hellings but also from Mr Nollet, I can say that the contractual delivery period of the A400M is not currently being changed. Negotiations with Airbus on a possible adjustment of the deadline are ongoing. According to the latest information available to me, delivery could still start in 2019, but would spread over a longer period. A new payment schedule will therefore have to be discussed together with the adjusted planning, taking into account compensation for the delays incurred. The transition plans for the transition from the C-130 to the A400M therefore take into account possible shifts from the delivery date of the A400M. So this is not about the start but about shifts in delivery time. As we do not know the delivery schedule today, it is impossible to complete the study on the maintenance, or the lifetime extension, of the C-130.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-14-54-commissie-ic687x.u95	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I have two more questions. Firstly, on the investigation of the parts of the C-130. When do you think this investigation will be completed and the C-130 devices will be able to be operational again? Secondly, I understand from your reply that the start of the delivery of the A400Mís will not be compromised, but that the roll-out may take longer. Does this not affect the longer maintenance of the C-130 dynamometers? Do you expect trouble there, or not? I don't know when the last C-130s will be taken out of rotation. The first one in 2018, but the last four years or so later, I seem to remember. If the delivery of the new A400MFs is delayed, could we continue working with the C130MFs?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-14-54-commissie-ic687x.u96	As far as your first question is concerned, it would be unwise today to set a date for the completion of the review. As you know, there is no risk of safety in aircraft. It would be unwise, of anyone, to stick deadlines on them and, for the sake of achieving those deadlines, to take unnecessary risks. We have all read that the problems would have to do with a new type of oil which, although approved by the manufacturer, apparently had an impact on the appliance itself. The whole impact of this needs to be looked at. Secondly, with regard to the extension of the lifetime of the C-130, there are different scenarios on the table, but the extent of these can of course only be determined when we get a look at the final delivery schedule. In concrete terms, a number of large and small maintenance operations are foreseen in the planning of the C-130 dynamometers. The C-130 dynamometers that we would dispose of in the long term should no longer be under major maintenance, because they no longer need flight hours. If we know in what way the A400M will be delivered, we can also see to what extent we might still have a large maintenance service that has a specific name, but let me call it "to do so," which of course has an impact on the resale value of the device. We must maintain a capacity and maintaining a capacity always costs money. This is the same with a car: if one wishes to drive it longer, then the car will still cost money. So we really do need this capacity for the various tasks we have. If we still have to invest, that would not really be a tragedy, because it increases the resale value of the appliance. However, it is still under study and can only be completed if we know what Airbus will come up with.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-14-54-commissie-ic687x.u97	Thank you, Minister, for your reply.
