ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-21-54-commissie-ic601x.u1	Mr President, Minister, in a previous question about the practical implementation of the mechanism of joint and several liability in the case of tax and social debts, I was very surprised at the manner in which the ONSS engaged the responsibility of the various contractors, first taking into account those who had to pay the highest bills without making the deductions imposed by law. During our exchange on this subject, I told you of my scepticism about this process which, in my view, lacks logic. Some companies would be affected by 100% of the amount of their withholding tax, while others that have failed to do so in the same case would not be affected at all or would be affected by proportionately lower amounts. Mr Minister, I think it is essential to reflect on an amendment to this mechanism whereby ONSS takes over contractors in the event of tax and social debts. It seems to me that all the undertakings concerned - i.e. not having made the required legal deductions - should be affected proportionately in the same way. In addition, I find it unacceptable for the administration to take advantage of this mechanism to recover much larger amounts due (interest, miscellaneous costs than those originally due) from the mechanism of joint and several liability, i.e. the balance of the bankrupt subcontractor. In the case I explained to you earlier, ONSS claimed a total amount of EUR 129 000 to five different companies, whereas the bankrupt company initially owed only EUR 76 000. In my view, a fair and equitable application of the mechanism of joint and several liability would only allow the administration to claim EUR 76 000, not EUR 129 000. In addition, all participating companies must be impacted in proportion to the debt owed to the debtor. Minister, do you intend to take any steps to change these two elements, the cascade mechanism and the costs that increase the amount claimed? Thank you in advance for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-21-54-commissie-ic601x.u2	Dear colleague, thank you for your question. You are well aware that the joint and several liability of contractors for tax and social debts already dates back to 1978. The Civil Code contains the applicable articles, of which article 1203 implies that the ONSS may make the free choice of debtors to recover the amount of the debt without the benefit of the division being objected to. This is where the problem with your question lies. In concrete terms, my inspection services often use this article and more precisely because it is an indispensable tool in the fight against social and tax fraud. This article was introduced in order to combat the fraudulent practices of labour providers. It shall apply in particular in the construction sector. The Civil Code and its various articles make it possible to create a mechanism in which joint and several liability for social debts can be applied only in cases where the subcontractor has social debts at the time of payment of all or part of the work and if the obligation of withholding on invoice is not properly fulfilled. If an audit has been done before, there is normally no concern. But in the case you're referring to, it wasn't done. I stress that these practices and articles are important to my inspection services in the fight against social fraud and social dumping, and this is increasingly happening. In the case of social dumping, this article is used to trace a number of situations which may be subject to inspection and investigation, thus eliminating a number of frauds. If there are any adjustments to be implemented, we must first consult with two or three other ministers – we are talking about the Civil Code. Secondly, it must be borne in mind that these articles are truly indispensable in the fight against social fraud. As a result, we must pay attention to what can be done because they are essential to my services in order to stop social dumping or fraud. The important thing is to explain to entrepreneurs and SMEs the rules applicable to avoid such a situation. This is why we are developing a "correct entrepreneurs" application to be able to verify the rules applicable in particular in the construction sector more easily.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-21-54-commissie-ic601x.u3	Mr Secretary of State, I am not questioning the mechanism. I know that it is important and that it makes it possible to recover amounts from unscrupulous companies. My point is to treat in a different way those companies which have committed the same fault, in this case, not having withheld the amounts of their debts from the payment of their subcontractors. In the end, ONSS will seize the entire debt in one company and nothing in another. There is therefore discrimination and, in the case of concern to us, five companies were concerned for an amount of EUR 76,000. It would have been wiser to recover this amount proportionally from each of the five companies and not to seize all of it from the first and the second and less from the others. I see unequal treatment for a company and that this mechanism is used to add to it the costs of other debts to be recovered that are not initially covered by joint and several liability. The total amount to be recovered is therefore increased. I can, rigorously, abandon this second element, but it is discriminatory to treat in a different way two companies that have committed the same fault. Moreover, even if it is an interesting practice to combat dumping, if two companies do this, why would ONSS recover the debt from one company and not from the other? I am aware that the mechanism is complicated, but I think it would be interesting to think about removing the mechanism as a cascade and turning it into a more equitable mechanism for the various companies that have forgotten to pay their debts. I do not know if you are going to contact the other ministers to study this issue or if you are not going to respond to my request, but I find the situation a little unfair.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-21-54-commissie-ic601x.u4	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, one of the points of action in the plan for fair competition in the transport sector, signed at the beginning of February, is to increase the number of checks on vehicles of less than 3.5 tonnes. These vehicles often remain under the radar because they do not have to comply with a series of obligations such as tachographs, transport permits,... Your reply to my written question in autumn 2016 shows that no distinction can be made in the statistics concerning the checks on vehicles of less than 3.5 tonnes and more than 3.5 tonnes and therefore it is not possible to check whether the measure in question is being implemented in the action plan. So I would like to ask you two questions today. Will you ask the inspection services to make this division possible in future, or have you already asked for it? The figures available show that the FPS Mobility Inspection Services carried out significantly more controls in 2016 than the relevant social inspection services, where such an increase was not established immediately. That doesn't have to be a big problem, but I wonder what the explanation for that difference is?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-21-54-commissie-ic601x.u5	Mr President, Mr Raskin, statistics so far do not distinguish between heavy goods vehicles and lorries of less than 3.5 tonnes. We see a shift in the sector towards more transport via smaller and lighter vans. I instructed SIOD, as provided for in one of the pathways we set out in the reform, to make this division so that we could have a better view of it. We do a lot more road checks. In the past, seat controls were mostly carried out, and today we do a lot more road checks. As far as your second question is concerned, I have asked for at least 400 common controls to be carried out every year. We were well above that last year, with 550 checks. We have noted that something was found in 16% of the cases. It is just those mixed checks carried out by various inspection services in the field that produce results and can stop fraud at source. On the basis of reinforced data mining, there can also be a more targeted search. We have also given the transport sector access to the Fair Competition Communication Point. So there we have some additional information that we can use. For example, in the case of inspections on Waberer's holidays around the Christmas holidays, we have not only been on the spot but we have also carried out checks on the road afterwards. Those checks on the road are the ones which, in my opinion, are the ones that prevent fraud, which still exists in the transport sector, in the most rigorous way. Looking at the figures for the whole of 2016 it is noted that more checks have taken place in the area of mixed inspection than planned. When I look at the figures for the whole of 2015 and 2016, not only for the first two semesters, they are in the same order of magnitude. We are absolutely continuing the fight against social dumping in the transport sector. That's what results are. You probably saw the communication of the transport sector yourself a few weeks ago. They claimed that she sees a number of companies that are back on the flag and that they are also expecting 5 000 new Belgian jobs in the transport sector in the coming years. So that's just good news. There was also an explicit reference to the increased fight against social fraud.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-21-54-commissie-ic601x.u6	Thank you for your answer. Indeed, a lot of things are happening for the better. The sector indicates that there is a problem and you will deal with it. Of course, you have the support of the majority, because these targeted road checks through data mining are a good thing. You know that more mixed controls are an important story for us. Efficiency is the key word there. The results show that this is also an added value here. If the sector is indeed saying that the measures taken by this government, this Secretary of State, are looking forward to the revival or growth of the sector, then these are good things. I also assume that this has led to more checks on vehicles being carried out in the action plan measures. Let us say that important steps have been taken that we also support, but we must not forget to continue to encourage the services.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-21-54-commissie-ic601x.u7	Mr President, Secretary of State, the lack of information on workers and self-employed workers posted to our country is an important obstacle to the fight against social dumping. Therefore, an evaluation of the Limosa notification is one of the Action Lines of the Construction Sector Fair Competition Plan. We have already had oral questions on this subject in this committee. In your reply, you were able to tell me at the time that negotiations were under way with the European Commission, and with the competent Cabinets and Administrations, to take the necessary steps. You hoped to reach an agreement before the summer recess, so that the necessary adjustments can be made. The budget has already been provided for. I have four specific questions. Have the negotiations with the European Commission been concluded? If not, what is the reason for the delay? What is the outcome of the negotiations? How will the Limosa declaration be adapted and extended? When will the adjustments be possible? What's the timing? What budget was allocated for this purpose? Thank you in advance for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-21-54-commissie-ic601x.u8	Mr Secretary of State, I have a question that fits in with this. Apparently, the number of Limosa notifications has doubled over the last five years. At the same time, the number of secondments to construction has apparently been reduced by 7 000. I read these numbers. My questions are simple. What is your evaluation of these figures? What will you do at national and European level to prevent any further abuse of secondment? I have to read my questions or they will not be included in the report. That's the way it works in this room. I'm gonna send a note to the chairman about this. If I were to refer to my question, this would appear to be the case in the report. If I were to ask you to close the door, this is also in the report. Everything I have said now is included in the report. I think people who read questions are absurd, because I assume you have read those questions as well.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-21-54-commissie-ic601x.u9	Mr President, I shall read out the answers and at least we shall be on an equal footing.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-21-54-commissie-ic601x.u10	We come to Parliament to debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-21-54-commissie-ic601x.u11	Mr President, we may need to ask Lernout & Hauspie for advice to work with speech recognition. There are a number of things I would like to distinguish from each other, because the questions show that there is some confusion in this area. Firstly, in the Fair Competition Plan in the construction sector, we have listed a number of cases. However, a number of adjustments call for changes to the regulatory framework. We are making progress in other areas. The "correct enterprise" app, for example, is in full development. At present, there is also a draft from KB before the National Labour Council which includes the additional introduction of the nature of the services and the various sectors, the approval number of the temporary employment agency, the foreign premium, similar to loyalty stamps, and the liaison person of the construction sector in the country of origin. That will give us some more information. Secondly, there is the European part of the story, which I myself know better. We are looking at how we can make specific agreements with DG GROW on reporting obligations for self-employed workers, as a judgment was delivered in 2012 which presents difficulties. Together with the Borsus cabinet, we are in full discussion with the European Commission to see how, for example, transport can be included in the list. That's the biggest problem right now. We see that in a number of sectors, such as the transport sector, more and more foreign companies are working. It is important to continue to address the risk sectors, as you mentioned in your previous question. The discussion with DG GROW was constructive. If we make further progress, I will be able to report on this. As far as timing is concerned, the texts must first be drawn up. After that, several stages, including in Parliament, have to be completed. We are looking at how we can make the necessary budgets available, but in principle everything should be completed in the coming months. It is important that we engage fully in the debate with Europe in order to continue to apply the necessary controls to the risk sectors that are important to us. The figures to which you referred, Mr Van Quickenborne, are also important enough to give. We are indeed seeing an increase in the number of postings over the last five or even ten years, but we certainly should not throw everything into a pile. I have read a number of things in recent weeks, which could lead to the conclusion that all these people are working full-time here and that they are always pushing Belgian jobs off the market. Nothing could be further from the truth. At the moment one arrives in Limosa, one may have worked one day, but perhaps also longer. If we look at where these people come from, we see that almost two thirds of them come from neighbouring countries. That's a significant figure. Cases such as labour costs are less important to them than those from Eastern Europe. Due to increased controls, a revival of the economy and reductions in charges, the number of Limosa notifications, specifically for construction, has fallen by 7 000. There we see a tendency to give Belgian construction a little more space again. The National Bank also points out that over 2 200 jobs were added to the construction sector last year. That turn of events has been put in place. Hopefully, she'll go through the next few years. I would also like to point out that in this discussion we must be very careful not to throw the child away with the bath water. There are also 100 000 Belgians posted abroad. They also need adequate protection and, preferably, companies that can use light administrative procedures, with no red tape. However, we must do everything we can to tackle social dumping and social fraud. Companies that use the Posting Rules in a rogue way must be dealt with hard. That is what I am doing at European level. For example, we already have more than 500 AE attestations that we contest at European level, while my predecessor had 15 or 20. There too, we are taking steps forward to ensure that at the same time we can safeguard the small open economy that Belgium is, and give our businesses every opportunity, but also allow foreign companies to respond very quickly to needs in our labour market. On the other hand, we are also stepping up the fight against social fraud against companies which do not follow the rules of the game and who are really trying to make use of the legislation on posting.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-21-54-commissie-ic601x.u12	Thank you for your reply, Mr Secretary of State. You've put it in a broader context for a moment. Allow me to respond briefly. You read that these people always take all the jobs, but I've read it a little more nuanced. In terms of numbers of our neighbouring countries sending people here, take the Netherlands, for example. Ten thousand of the people from the Netherlands actually come from third countries, including three thousand Poles. Just to talk about the substance of the case. You are absolutely right, Mr Secretary of State: a great deal of ambition has already been achieved of the plan you have drawn up with the construction sector. We see for a reason that the number of posted workers has already fallen by seven thousand. There's definitely good points in that plan. On the other hand, the figures are rising significantly. They also continue to rise significantly for years. So the question is: The rise is there. Then where are the people involved? Which sectors are the most problematic? In this sense, a reform of the Limosa declaration is obviously not an unnecessary luxury. We are also broadly on the same lines at this point. I hear the conversations are running. In the coming months there would be some insight into the timing and the budget. We are waiting patiently for that. After all, the elephant should not be released into the porcelain shop either. I also follow you with the necessary caution, referring to the 2012 judgment, with which we took the flight ahead a little too quickly. Nevertheless, it remains an important yard for the current government.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-21-54-commissie-ic601x.u13	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, we can only hope that things will progress at European level. As always with Europe, things are slow. In Kortrijk things are moving fast; in Brussels things are slowing down and in Europe things are not likely to be slow. The European Commissioner has now announced a plan. Has there been any progress on that?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-21-54-commissie-ic601x.u14	Mr President, Mr Van Quickenborne, this has not yet been achieved, because the European Council is completely divided. You will also remember the yellow card, which has been there, of 11 Member States which block everything and thus de facto separate the labour law section. We have now also received a second proposal from Mrs Thyssen on everything relating to social security. It also retains everything that exists today, including the comments I have read, so that social security can be paid here, where everything is much safer. That's not how it works. The debate should also focus on better controls there. That is why, during my visit to Mrs Thyssen, I also advocated the creation of a European database, the digitization of this and the authentication of the A1 attestations, so that the inspection services can consult these documents in all the languages they want. That seems to me to be a logical step forward. All the other solutions I have heard lead to a huge administrative burden. If we want the 28 contribution systems of the different Member States to be collected in Belgium, this means that either all SMEs are obliged to know those 28 systems or I am obliged to recruit additional officials to apply all 28 systems. I am in favour of job creation, preferably in the private sector and not in favour of shifting paperwork, but in order to get things moving effectively. That's one element. The second element is that it is either de facto taxed or labour taxed again. That is something I, the current government and the current coalition are absolutely trying to avoid. I hope and believe that every member of the current majority will support this.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-21-54-commissie-ic601x.u15	Mr President, Secretary of State, spend the system on Google. Within the year, there will be a database. However, you do not. So it'll probably be another 15 years. Put the file out to the private principal. You will have your database immediately.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-21-54-commissie-ic601x.u16	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, my question dates from 27 October. At that time, we were still in the status of the task force which led to a government decision. You set up this task force, Mr Secretary of State, prior to the decision to tackle the fragmentation and make the social inspection much more efficient. A decision was, of course, taken and steps were taken. I do not ask about the discussions on reform, as in my initial question, but about the current state of affairs, after the government's decision.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-21-54-commissie-ic601x.u17	Mr Secretary of State, the reform of the social inspection services has been approved by the Council of Ministers. While I do not wish to go back to the substance of the reform at all, I am nevertheless deeply concerned about the interests of the employer and the employee in the German-speaking Community. According to my information, within the social inspectorates would work one to two agents able to speak German, respectively. At present, however, correspondence is only in French because the place where the protocol is established determines the protocol language, to the detriment of German-speaking employers and employees. If you didn't know, I'm from Eupen. These are questions that are redundant when I talk about my region, but it is very important, you will understand it! Mr Secretary of State, would it not be possible to regroup the various German-speaking agents into a social inspectorate in the German-speaking Community? If such a proposal is not feasible, would there not be another solution for the social inspection services to correspond in German with German-speaking employers and employees, as is supposed to be done, should we recall?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-21-54-commissie-ic601x.u18	Mr Secretary of State, in the context of the redesignation, the Finance Inspectorate had been very clear and had indicated in its opinion that it was wise to post it pending the audit report of the Court of Auditors. That is how we know that there is an audit report from the Court of Auditors that has to have fallen since, I imagine. In the meantime, you have decided not to wait for this audit report from the Court of Auditors as suggested by the Finance Inspectorate and have this redesign approved by the Council of Ministers on 10 November 2016. I'm interested in knowing where this audit report is and where it is, quite simply.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-21-54-commissie-ic601x.u19	Mr President, first of all I would like to give a general state of play on the reform of the social inspection services. This decision was taken by the Council of Ministers on 10 November last year. On 18 November, a week after the decision, a first task force came together with all inspection services to launch the various reform pathways. On 9 February, we again took stock of the situation in the SIOD's strategic committee. We have looked in particular at the legal and budgetary implementation. It's mostly been executed. The new structure around the RSZ, the Social Inspectorate, the RSVZ and the other inspection services is also in full swing. Seminars have already taken place and project groups have been set up. This integration is therefore in full swing and to everyone's satisfaction. The recruitment of 100 additional inspectors is also under way. At present, about 30 people are already employed and the rest are recruited in the coming weeks. We are working on the additional profiles of the SIOD and normally they will come out in the next few days. We have also worked on voluntary mobility for thirty-nine posts. On the ten improvement projects included in the reform, a working group has already been set up to examine the modernisation of social security systems and has met several times. For SIOD, the two structural consultation committees were also set up, one for employees and the other for the self-employed. At present they are chaired by Michel Aseglio, pending the appointment of a full-time manager. The SIOD Strategic Committee came together on 9 February and already approved the Action Plan on Social Fraud for 2017. This should be submitted to the Ministerial Committee on the fight against tax and social fraud on 17 March and, normally, to the Council of Ministers on 24 March. You will therefore find that everything we have agreed on this reform is now whether it is in progress or has been partially implemented, or will be implemented for a long time. The deadline set for 1 July is likely to be met, or indeed will be met. A second question concerns the Court of Auditors. As I said in committee a few weeks ago, the audit carried out by the Court of Auditors did not concern the reform of the Social Inspectorate. The official report is then due in March. We will then see what the issues of the Court of Auditors will be, but it is clear that the reform is under way, that several avenues are being considered and that certain recommendations will form part of the Court of Auditors' document in the context of the ten reforms under consideration. In summary, the Court of Auditors' report does not concern the reform of the Social Inspectorate; the report is due next March and we will see what it contains. The third point concerns the regrouping of German-speaking inspectors to this Community. Following the reform, the grouping did not take place according to the language of the various inspectors. The aim of the reform was to improve the organization of inspection services, with greater rigour and expertise in the field. Ms Jadin, I understand your concerns, but within the scope of my powers, I must also comply with language legislation and the division of competences. I therefore have little room for manoeuvre, particularly on the problem of federal jurisdiction over certain inspection services in relation to the Regions. Indeed, you know that we have implemented inspection procedures at the regional level, where we consult very regularly, but we have not yet been able to take account of the grouping of German-speaking inspectors because, given my skills, I cannot intervene.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-21-54-commissie-ic601x.u20	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for the answer. The discussion was held in committee, hearings took place and the Council of Ministers took a decision. You list a number of concrete steps that have already been taken. I also hear that we are on schedule, and that is a good thing. You are now giving an opportunity to the commitment that was made at the time and after a year we will carry out an evaluation.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-21-54-commissie-ic601x.u21	Secretary of State, I asked two questions. The first was to ask you if grouping was possible. Indeed, it is not possible at the moment, because we are not in a periclation of competence, nor are we in the context of these matters, nor are we in the context of the announced reform. It is nevertheless true, Mr Secretary of State, that for any service, including a federal service, you are aware that it must be able to be rendered for the citizens and all citizens of this country, including (sorry!) German speakers. If the service is defective or cannot be fully provided, the problem should be addressed. I am sure that there are solutions, including in the reform you are considering and for which I wish you success.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-21-54-commissie-ic601x.u22	Minister, I will not go back to the choice that has been made in its time. Personally, I am convinced that social inspection can only be efficient if it is a tripod. You have chosen to cut yourself off from a weapon and a terrible lever, the police and the labour auditorate. In addition, in terms of method, you have chosen muscular and uncoordinated integration. Moreover, you claim that the audit of the Court of Auditors has nothing to do with it! But of course only on the contrary! The audit of the Court of Auditors is related to social inspection. As a result, making the choice to redraw the social inspection without having waited, as you recalled, neither the Financial Inspectorate nor the audit of the Court of Auditors, is far from being Goed Bestuur! You are announcing this report for the month of March. Do I have to conclude that this is currently at the stage of consultation of the services concerned with regard to the observations of the Court of Auditors, since the procedure provides for possible responses at the level of the structures? I would point out that after these replies and the final conclusions of the Court of Auditors, priority is given to Parliament. I hope we will then be able, Mr President, to examine this report carefully. I will be, and I imagine you too, very interested in perhaps finding that it would have been better to wait for this audit before any haste. I dare to hope for you and your government that there will be no major element that could undermine your choice. To my colleague Kattrin Jadin, whose question I have heard, I can understand some elements, but I think it could have been managed upstream by the government.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-21-54-commissie-ic601x.u23	Mr President, I am very sensitive to Mrs Jadin's question. Yes, it is true that the services of the Social Inspectorate must also be able to communicate in German with companies and with workers, in a normal way, if possible, if necessary, and if the citizens so request. There's nothing to worry about. We promise you that we will examine what we can do. Then there are some strange remarks. We have always had positive opinions from the Finance Inspectorate, on all the elements, on all the parts of the reform. This is clearly stated in the reform, and we have begun, including holding some meetings with the auditorates and the police. There, I found that this was sometimes the first time that the various services had talked to each other in a number of years. I believe that this is one of the priorities that must be clearly addressed by the reform of the Social Inspectorate: improving cooperation between the Justice, the Police and the Social Inspectorate. This priority is one of those clearly identified in one of the ten tracks of the reform. Finally, I know that there is a report from the Court of Auditors. The latter is a very important element, but it has always said, even publicly, that it is not an issue related to the reform of the Social Inspectorate. Clearly, there are elements that need to be improved in the Inspectorate's services, but I think that we have already often discussed these elements in this committee. I suggest you look at the fourth chapter of the reform. You will find a lot of things that we want to improve, and I hope we will make those improvements in the coming months.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-21-54-commissie-ic601x.u24	Mr Secretary of State, are you explaining that the Finance Inspectorate did not indicate that it would be wise to wait for the audit of the Court of Auditors? You added that everything was not always well or that everything was positive. So you are saying that this remark, saying that we had to wait for the Court of Auditors, was not included in the Financial Inspectorate's report?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-21-54-commissie-ic601x.u25	You said we had a negative opinion from the Finance Inspectorate. You said that and I said it wasn't true.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-21-54-commissie-ic601x.u26	No, I didn't say that. I said the Finance Inspectorate had asked to post the redesign.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-21-54-commissie-ic601x.u27	You said the Finance Inspectorate gave a negative opinion. That's not true, she gave a positive opinion! I also said that the Court of Auditors explained that the report it was drafting was not about the reform of the Social Inspectorate. These are the two things I wanted to point out to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-21-54-commissie-ic601x.u28	I continue and I sign: first, the Finance Inspectorate did tell you that we had to wait for the audit of the Court of Auditors and post the redesign. Then the Court of Auditors conducts an audit of the Social Inspectorate! Finally, I cannot let you say that the Social Inspectorate, the police and the labour auditorate were not talking and were not working together before your reform! That's really bullshit! It is even particularly offensive for the actors involved!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-21-54-commissie-ic601x.u29	Mr Secretary of State, I have a question about your announcement concerning the fight against residence fraud by the unemployed. You want to ensure the automatic exchange of residence data between police and social services, which would require a district agent to automatically report any removal of an unemployed person to the RVA. From 2018, this approach should generate €5 million per year. I have two specific questions. How's the automatic exchange of residence records coming along? Is there only a co-operation between the police and the RVA or does the police also pass on data to other services such as RIZIV and Famifed? So how's this cooperation going?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-21-54-commissie-ic601x.u30	Mr Secretary of State, in the budgetary format for 2017, you said that you would focus on a better exchange of information between the police and the Social Inspectorate. The checks carried out by the RVA between January and September 2016 showed that 20 000 checks on unemployment benefits did not cover 5 000, i.e. a fourth. I assume that these 20 000 are, of course, a steel which is suspected of having a problem with it. It is not possible to infer from this that an unemployed person out of four is cheating. I think this would be a little too strong a conclusion. In doing so, you have recovered EUR 16 million in tax evasion, for which I congratulate you most warmly. An automatic exchange of data would enable the inspection to recover EUR 5 million annually. I suppose the 5 million euros would be supplementary. Mr Secretary of State, as you know, I am accumulating in this House. I am not only a member of the Chamber but also mayor, and I am learning something from that, for example, that my police services have very relevant information. There is a lot of cooperation today between the local police and the urban teams, prevention and territorial activity, for example in the case of automatic removal from the population register, something that we are very active in. As a cumulativeist, I therefore welcome further cooperation with the Social Inspectorate. I have a few questions about this. What's the status of the file? Secondly, has there been any decision as to how the exchange of information will actually work? Will the weather be done with paper and faxes as so often happens with the inspection services and also with the local police, I will not hide that from you? Will there be a contact person at the Social Inspectorate with whom local police can contact directly? As mayor, I work very well with Sefor, the DVZ's department, to show people off? We have a local contact for the province of West Flanders. I am very pleased with that. Finally, is there a simple digital way of enabling this data exchange?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-21-54-commissie-ic601x.u31	Mr President, Mr Raskin, thank you for these questions, which are very much in line with the end of the previous question. There is a lot of work being done on improvements between the police, justice and social services. At the end of 2016, a working group was set up in my cabinet, in which, together with Justice, Home Affairs and the relevant administrations, namely the RVA, the RIZIV, the RSZ and the police services, we examine how we can further step up the fight against residence fraud. Work is still under way. The aim is therefore not only to co-operate between the police and the RVA, but also to exchange information between other administrations which, in the context of their statutory tasks, are confronted with or can contribute to the fight against residence fraud. We are looking at how we can organise the exchange of data between the RVA, the RIZIV, Famifed, the OCMWFs and the other police and judicial services. Of course, these services are already working together today. In some areas they work well together, but often not directly. Because there is a very often an employee hearing officer in between. The current cooperation is based on a letter from the College of Attorneys General. In this context, each social security institution has designated a spoc responsible for the exchange of information, e.g. the OCMWFs, with the intervention of the Social Integration PPS, the RVA, with the intervention of the Central Audit Service, the RIZIV, with the intervention of the Administrative Control and Famifed Department, with the intervention of the Social Fraud Cell. So you can see that there are a lot of elements involved. We are now looking at ways of further optimising cooperation between the police and the judicial authorities on the one hand and the inspection services on the other. Administrations may request additional home visits in the context of their own audit investigations and through the intervention of the labour inspector. This can be done today, but if they have doubts about the address of the person concerned, they can also contact the local police forces again. Finally, by means of a so-called press release, the auditor himself can also request additional elements. So there are already a number of elements on the table. The aim is to integrate them more closely and better than today and to formalise the exchange channels. That must of course be done, and I agree with you on this, Mr President, as digitally as possible. We must avoid as much paperwork as possible. The first contacts have already been established for this purpose. Two inspectors will be authorised per police area and access to the digital platform. The flow of information can be regulated much better digitally. At the same time, this is also important for my other jurisdiction and all regulations on privacy will absolutely be followed. There, the role of SIOD will be very important to manage coordination between spoc, police and other services and to ensure that there are protocols and mechanisms to ensure that the exchange can take place in a very smooth and digital way. It is therefore an improved path which has many priorities and which, hopefully, will produce the necessary results in practice.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-21-54-commissie-ic601x.u32	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I would like to refer once again to what the President said as an expert in his capacity as an executive officer of a not insignificant city. That's the fact that there's a lot of relevant information in the police department. So I fully support the improvement process that is going on today and to which you seem to give priority. We are looking at how the collaboration can be optimized, in 2017 of course digitally. I'm rounding up. We are in joyous expectation. This is a very interesting yard that you are apparently very active in. I would like to hear the follow-up story in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-21-54-commissie-ic601x.u33	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, I have nothing more to add.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-21-54-commissie-ic601x.u34	Mr Geerts and Mr Vercamer are absent. Debates of the European Parliament 16225 and No. Mr Geerts (Commission); Mr Geerts; Mr Geerts; Mr Geerts; Mr Geerts; Mr Geerts; Mr Geerts; Mr Geerts; Mr Geerts; Mr Geerts; Mr
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-21-54-commissie-ic601x.u35	Mr Secretary of State, you mentioned a few weeks ago the possibility that the flexi-job system could be extended to pensioners, if I understood correctly. I had expressed myself at the time on the principle of flexi-jobs. I understand the scope and we have spoken and will continue to talk about the effects. I think that an unmarked flexi-job system presents certain risks. In particular, it encourages precarious contracts by reducing social security contributions and creates internal competition with "classical" employment. We refer here to pensioners. This is one more step in the reflection on the status of the pensioner. Your measure would legitimize the fact that pensioners have to make side benefits in order to survive in a system that reduces the first pillar of the pension plan and affects the purchasing power of pensioners. The index jump, the increase in VAT on electricity and other reforms do not affect pensioners positively. On the contrary, we believe that the goal of our pension system is to enable our seniors to enjoy a decent income, to live in dignity and not to have to work to survive. Your idea is a false one against our philosophy in this area. Secretary of State, what makes you think that horeca is an attractive sector for pensioners? Have you received any such requests or conducted any analysis on the subject? Can you explain why you are proposing such an extension of flexi-jobs to our seniors? Horeca is a sector where workers have to perform tasks at a steady pace for long hours. Therefore, what kind of function can a pensioner aspire to in the Horeca if your measure is implemented? Do you have a pre-assessment of the impact of your measure on the work of young people (i.e. non-pensioners) in this sector? What is your economic reasoning for saying that your measure benefits society as a whole? Finally, has this been done in consultation with the Minister of Employment?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-21-54-commissie-ic601x.u36	Mr Secretary of State, I said in committee two weeks ago that flexi jobs are one of the most successful job plans in recent years: zero euro subsidy, very simple for employers and a great success. The figures are known: 20 000. I understand that for someone who works two hours a week, it also counts as one flexi job.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-21-54-commissie-ic601x.u37	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-21-54-commissie-ic601x.u38	So it could be in one or two hours. We should not give the impression that we are talking about 20 000 full-time jobs. It's 5 500 employers. I don't know how many employers there are in the hospitality industry, but that's quite a percentage. It does not seem to be at the expense of the fixed jobs, of which you have also published the figures. Some critics say that these figures are still too limited to draw any conclusions. I'll tell you what the critics tell me. You say that other accompanying measures in the hospitality sector are not yet sufficiently exploited. There are even people who do a round of Flanders to determine that. When will the promised evaluation of flexi-jobs take place? This has been announced by the government with a lot of poeha. It was supposed to be there before the end of 2016, but we haven't seen it yet. Why is that? It may be that a lot of work is being done in the government, which does not succeed, but I see that draft laws are being made in a few days' time, including in connection with the discussion on remuneration. I remember my time as a minister. If it had to be quick, it could be done in a few days, but the will must be there. Is there a problem there, Mr Secretary of State? You mentioned other accompanying measures. What measures are we talking about? Can we change things so that it can be done? I recall that your predecessor had already mentioned overtime and duty to state reasons. He said back then, "We have to fix that." We're way ahead now. How are you gonna fix that? What are you gonna do about it? Is it realistic to expect adjustments in the short term? I will not ask questions about the expansion of the flexi-job. As you know, I am absolutely in favour of this. I know that the bakers, the butchers, even people who have a PS membership card are for that too. That's the difference between the elite and the base. I support the base, not the elite. I'll ask that question another time. I shall now confine myself to these questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-21-54-commissie-ic601x.u39	Mr President, I will briefly outline the fact that the flexi-jobs system after its introduction does provide clear figures. Indeed, there are more than 20,000 flexi jobs. On average, a flexi-jobber earns about 200 euros net extra per month. A large part of the people who do these flexi jobs today in the hospitality industry already work in the catering industry. So it's really extra merit. We have also seen that it is not at the expense of permanent employment, which was also a fear of some, but the figures clearly do not show this. The flexi-job was first created in the horeca sector to allow it to hire additional staff in a flexible but also payable way. The idea was also to eliminate work in the dark. This is why the flexi-jobs system has been introduced with a profit for the companies but also for the workers; in fact, one pays a contribution, one is in order and one continues to contribute. You also have to have at least one more job up to 80% of the time. We didn't create burgers jobs like they say. A more flexible and payable system has been created which also benefits flexi-job workers. I have introduced this proposal because a number of requests have been received. Pensioners, who work in a fixed job or in the casual work system, asked me the question: "Why can't this flexi-job be used? We have contributed to the system for forty years but now we are excluded from flexi-jobs." People are already working in other systems. I think we really need to eliminate this vision that a 60- or 65-year-old is no longer able to work in the labour market. I do not agree with that. I believe that it is even necessary to insist that people, if they want it – it is a decision they have to make themselves – stay active in different sectors. Today, we are talking about flexi-jobs that have been introduced into the horeca sector. Why not start with an extension of this system for pensioners in the horeca sector? We're not going to complicate things, but that's one of the proposals I'm making. That wasn't the only proposal I made. I have also noted that we have been calling for an evaluation for some time. For that, several ministers and cabinets are needed around the table, but I have noted that the evaluation has not yet been possible due to the absence of a few. On 17 March, the evaluation of the Catering Policy will be on the agenda of the Interministerial Anti-Fraud Committee. I've already listed a number of things for myself. One of these elements is that there is a great deal of demand for flexi-jobs among pensioners. However, there is the fact that a number of accompanying measures for the catering sector have not yet been taken into account in the field. It is, of course, a great pity if we introduce the white register and notify the sector, with a number of measures to encourage flexibility and affordability, that these measures cannot reach the premises of the small catering company. We have also noted that the system of gross and net overtime, linked to the use of the white register, is today underutilized, because today the system is very uncertain and a number of people refuse to use it or do not dare to use it. We must therefore remove legal uncertainty and, in fact, grant the system de facto automatically. A RSZ discount has also been granted to people using a white cash register. There we also note that its administrative use is relatively heavy and that many of the funds that are included in the budget cannot be used to give the catering industry some oxygen. There too, we must consider what we can do in the field for small catering companies to simplify their use and thereby improve it. This is already a number of elements which I would like to mention before the final evaluation of the use of flexi-jobs and the catering measures at the interministerial committee on 17 March.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-21-54-commissie-ic601x.u40	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for these points of answer. We're not on the same wavelength. I can join you when you approach flexi-jobs as a way to eliminate work in the dark. You propose a formula with a base at 4/5 times. But, as I have already said, I would have liked to add beacons per worker and by employer to avoid drifts. This has an effect on other jobs. When we do not mark things up, we create dumping between the different jobs and between conventional contract work and this kind of contract. Here I did not see any guidance for non-pensioned workers. Is there any for pensioners or could this take the form of a full-time flexi-job supplement to their pension? There's a real risk of drift. This is my main concern beyond the fact that you also allow your colleague to reduce the legal pension tomorrow, since it will now be possible to compensate for occasional work which, in reality, would become a necessity to survive.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-21-54-commissie-ic601x.u41	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for your answer. An inter-ministerial conference is scheduled for 17 March. Will the evaluation then be completed or will you decide to evaluate it?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-21-54-commissie-ic601x.u42	I refer to all the elements I have just listed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-21-54-commissie-ic601x.u43	The evaluation of flexi-jobs will also have to be completed by then. Very good. As far as overtime is concerned, I propose that we do what so many parties in Parliament ask: the automation of social rights. You know that to get, they say: automate. Well, automate that, too. I ask you to automate social rights in general. The right to overtime for those who wish to do so seems to me to be a social right. That's a suggestion for March 17th. I wonder what the other parties will say.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-21-54-commissie-ic601x.u44	Secretary of State, it is always interesting to look at what members of the government post on their website. I therefore read carefully on Friday 3 February that you had met Commissioner Marianne Thyssen. So far, no problem. On your website, you posted an article entitled Europese databank voor meer eerlijke Europese arbeidsmarkt, which was published on 3 February 2017. My questions, quite specific, are obviously related to what you wrote on your site. In your post, you quote 500 files of conflicts between Belgium and, you say, the countries of Eastern and Southern Europe. Which countries are mainly affected by the 500 cases mentioned in your post? Above all, can you identify the countries with which collaboration is least effective? This is, of course, the priority of priorities. You are referring to the fact that you yourself have argued for the establishment of a European database of secondees. How can you combine your desire to set up a European data bank for fairer competition on the labour market with the EESSI electronic exchange system, resulting from the implementation of European coordination regulations? I imagine you know this system. The European Commission is in the process of setting up this trading system. How will your European data bank relate to this system? In your post, you quote the example of Limosa. The Limosa was the subject of a judgment by the European Court of Justice on the ground of failure to fulfil its obligations under the "temporarily independent" procedure. Has the Commission already given its opinion on the compliance proposed by Belgium? Then you refer to decision A1. In this respect, I would like to know how and since when Belgium has applied Decision A1 (Decision adopted by the Administrative Commission for the Coordination of Social Security Systems establishing a dialogue and conciliation procedure when a Member State raises doubts as to the validity of portable A1 documents issued by the institution of another Member State). Has the opinion of the Court of Auditors in its audit report (this is the 2013 Social Security Book) been followed in this respect? In 2017, I think I'm right to ask the question. Do the competent Belgian institutions (ONSS and INASTI) apply the recovery of cross-border claims for social security contributions, as provided for in Regulation 987 - 09 in its Articles 75 et seq.? Can you give me any figures in this regard? As far as bilateral agreements are concerned, I cannot help but quote your post: "Vooral de bilaterale aanpak van Belgié is uniek in Europa." I would like to know whether the bilateral conventions to which you refer are treaties within the meaning of public international law? What is their binding force and can you make them available to Parliament? This little decoding work is interesting compared to your post. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-21-54-commissie-ic601x.u45	Mrs Fonck, thank you for your question. With regard to A1, I note that my databases contain only figures for 2014. At that time, only 15 files were in phase 2 and none were in phase 3 at European level. I have asked, like my predecessor, for more use to be made of existing procedures. That's what we're doing. We have 500 cases currently under way at European level, of which 341 are in phase 1. This phase of dialogue with the institutions is the first step in the event of a problem with an A1. Half of the cases concern Poland, 10% concern Slovakia, 10% concern Portugal, 6% concern Romania and 4% concern Hungary. In phase 2, out of 153 cases, 34% concerned Portugal, 16% Poland and 15% Slovakia. Phase 3 consists of an administrative review panel. Of the five current cases, three concern Poland, one concern Romania and one concern Great Britain. These are the exact figures that I have now. These problems concern both Western and Eastern Europe. But in the figures, it is clear that some countries are quoted much more than others. That is why I am a supporter of a European data bank. A1s are sometimes a real problem and there is no way to control them. For this reason, you mentioned the EESSI, the solution proposed by the European Commission. It is a database for the exchange of electronic data between the competent institutions in order to systematically notify posted workers and the relevant periods. But the comparison of the Limosa system applied in Belgium shows that the latter includes more useful data in the fight against social dumping and social fraud. For example, Limosa can see who comes to work in our territory. This is not the case with ESSI. There's still a difference. That is why I pleaded with Mrs Thyssen to use the Limosa system. I also have this discussion with all the ministers I meet to negotiate bilateral agreements and I stress that the system we use in Belgium works very well, is not administratively cumbersome and helps us in the fight against social dumping. On the issue of Limosa and the extension for the self-employed, we are currently negotiating with the European Commission. DG Growth suggested that it could agree with the following risk areas: construction in the broad sense, industry and meat processing and cleaning. But the transport sector remains problematic, particularly on cabotage. I am fighting to include transport and cabotage in this list, because you know very well that, in the transport sector, work remains to be done. We need that databank. With regard to recovery, ONSS provided support to other EU Member States on the basis of Article 75. But, again, we have seen that ONSS receives and responds to inquiries. A better organization is in place. In addition, the ONSS may have to rely on foreign bodies for the recovery of ONSS judgments, especially in the event of the debtor moving to another Member State of the European Union. For this reason, I am very much in favour of even closer cooperation between the different inspection services, the different Member States concerned, because this type of information is not always available. That is why I will continue to work and conclude bilateral agreements at various levels. For example, Belgium has already concluded an agreement with the Netherlands, France and Luxembourg. International treaties on combating social fraud have followed the full ratification procedure. Belgium also has contracts with various European countries, with a view to deepening cooperation in the fight against social dumping. It is often a memorandum of understanding or a political declaration. But, very clearly, the monitoring of these processes is to put the different inspection services around the table not only to get to know each other but to improve collaboration between the different services, to establish a much faster and more direct exchange of information than is the case now. It is therefore a very strong signal both politically and operationally. As Secretary of State, I am helping my inspection services to combat social dumping. For this, we work at different levels. There are the Benelux Treaty, the Treaties with the Netherlands and France, but also memorandums of understanding and political declarations with different countries. For example, I can already tell you that different inspection services from Poland will come to Belgium to conclude an agreement and thus improve cooperation and the exchange of information to fight together against social dumping.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-21-54-commissie-ic601x.u46	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for your answers. These are complex and technical subjects but it is important to decode what you have communicated on your website. You focus on the countries of the South and the countries of the East. Of course, these countries are concerned – there are a large number of cases for Portugal – but they are not the only ones. In fact, the worst pupils in cooperation are France, the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg and the Netherlands. But you don't say a word about it! According to my information, cooperation with France is catastrophic! We don't get an answer. And when one obtains it, that is months or years later, the companies concerned have disappeared (judicial liquidation, bankruptcy, etc.). and that makes it impossible to recover anything. You're talking about the data bank. EESSI is not you, since this electronic exchange of data is the result of European coordination regulations. You didn't wear this part. I find that the creation of a data bank does not make much sense since the European Commission is in the process of setting up the EESSI system. I would like to point out that this is also what will allow the optimal exchange and in particular automatic notifications to Belgium of all situations of secondment. It should also be noted that the Limosa declaration was the subject of a judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union in breach of a State. The Commission clearly does not appear to be satisfied with the compliance proposed by Belgium. I would like to say that we must be diligent first and foremost in order to resolve these points. Belgium does not apply the A1 decision correctly and has only used this procedure since 2015, but, Mr Secretary of State, it should be pointed out that ONSS does not use this decision, contrary to what the Court of Auditors called for in its audit report. Since 2013, four years have passed - you have been in the government for two and a half years - and I find it unacceptable that today you realize that ONSS does not apply this measure. None of the competent Belgian institutions, ONSS or INASTI, apply the recovery of cross-border claims on social security contributions. In this context, we realize that Belgium does not apply the provisions of Regulation 987.09. What is the point, as you do, of requiring the institutions and competent authorities of the other Member States to withdraw portable A1 documents, if not to claim the payment of social security contributions in Belgium? I don't think that's serious! Finally, I would like to address the bilateral conventions that you are talking about in your post by saying that this is a unique thing in Europe. Only the previous government has entered into real agreements allowing massive cross-checking of data, profiling or data mining or data maching. But what did your government do? What you talk about by glorifying yourself in this post on Facebook is not treaties within the meaning of public international law but common letters of intent or MOUs. They are non-binding instruments that do not commit to anything. The agreements you are talking about have not been published in the Belgian Moniteur and, as a parliamentarian - I hope I will be followed by the chairman of the committee - I believe that we must demand that you produce these agreements which are not even available to Parliament, which is not acceptable. I would allow myself to make a very small political conclusion. These are complex and technical materials. It is therefore difficult for everyone to check your statements on the Internet. That's why I did the exercise, with experts, to decode everything you wrote about your post in Dutch. And when you decode what you say, that is not correct because, Mr. Secretary of State, in the words you write on Facebook, there are clearly approximations and things that are oriented – I will not repeat examples, you have heard them – things that are stoned and some are even really truncated. Even when one deals with technical matters, even when everyone is not able to verify it, he is not responsible for a secretary of state to write things so truncated on his website. I find this regrettable.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-21-54-commissie-ic601x.u47	Mrs Fonck, every word in this press release is correct. Every word! You accuse me of saying that there are things that are not correct or even that I'm lying. That's not fair. If you read the bilateral agreements that we concluded when I was with Mrs Thyssen, she said, as the President said, that Europe is moving slowly. These agreements allow for closer and stronger cooperation between inspection services. Did I mention in this press release that these are international agreements or treaties? No. I said that I have entered into agreements whereby the various inspection services can work better together and allow for a much faster exchange of information than now. That is what the European regulation asks us to do. We need to do such things because we need to improve the contact and exchange of information between the different inspection services. Secondly, I understand very well that you are ridiculing and even removing the Limosa system. There are two aspects here. Firstly, the Limosa system has much more information than the EESSI system currently proposed at European level. I wish to have this information in order to better combat social dumping. Second, there is a problematic aspect concerning Limosa for the self-employed. Here too, we are communicating with the European Commission because I know very well that Limosa for the self-employed is a key element in the fight against, for example, the fictitious statutes. These are things I need. With different inspection services doing their best to combat social dumping at European level, we are trying to organise ourselves better. Thirdly, there is also, as the President has said, a whole debate which is now taking place at European level to review all the regulations not only as regards work but also as regards social security. It is a process that is quite difficult. You know very well that there are countries that do not want to change anything and that do not cooperate, even within the framework of existing regulations. My point is always the same. We must first implement all the regulations and needs that we have now and that are already set out in the current legislation, and then we can discuss them. We are very supportive of Mrs Thyssen in improving European regulation. These are the three steps for which elements are currently on the table. We're trying to do the best we can in the field. Recovery was one of the elements that I have explicitly mentioned in the reform of the trajectories inspections to be improved because I know very well that on some aspects, there is not enough data on recovery. I saw this during the various discussions, particularly in the task force. Several meetings have been held on this subject to improve this aspect of recovery. This is one of the key elements for objectiveising the debate on the functioning of inspection services, on gaps in collaboration with certain countries and on the adoption of measures to improve this exchange of information and thus to better combat social dumping. That is my goal and I hope that it is an objective that we share. That is why we are trying to improve, through the various processes and with the various inspections, both at Belgian and European level, the exchange of information and to strengthen this very important struggle.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-21-54-commissie-ic601x.u48	Mr Secretary of State, first of all, I ask you to officially produce the bilateral conventions. Then you glorify the supposed uniqueness of this system in Europe. But you know very well that these are obviously not binding instruments. Moreover, you also know that, under the previous government, real agreements had the force of law. It is therefore a little easy to present you as having set up a "one-size-fits-all system in Europe", when it is clearly a step backwards from what had been agreed before. With regard to Limosa and EESSI, you say you want an additional device. I am sorry, but first of all, I would like to ask you to settle your case with regard to the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union in breach of a State. You need to find a way to bring yourself into compliance. Is debt collection effective today? No. On the other hand, I read on your website that you are teaching the other Member States, even though you are not ensuring this recovery. I'm not going to list all the examples again. I just wanted to get you the next message. You gargle a lot on your website, line after line, in any case with regard to this file. I find that, from time to time, doing fact checking with ministers – especially when we use and abuse this type of communication – is also our role. In fact, Parliament's mission is also to control the government and not to accept it saying things that are farfetched.
