ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic580x.u1	Minister, recently, the Boston Consulting Group conducted a study, at the request of Google, demonstrating that the digital sector could create 300,000 jobs by 2020 in Belgium. The Boston Consulting Group also argued that GDP would increase by $45 billion, from 1.6% today to 3.2% in 2020. A previous study carried out by the McKinsey Global Institute estimated the impact of digital technology on the Belgian economy at an increase in GDP of between 45 and 60 billion euros, i.e. an increase of 6 to 8% in active employment and would generate between 250,000 and 320,000 jobs by 2025. These are, therefore, substantially similar figures. Minister, do you think these figures from the Boston Consulting Group are credible? Has the department conducted an in-house study to verify these figures? What short- and long-term measures do you intend to put in place to strengthen the digitalisation of Belgium? Do you think the Digital Belgium plan is sufficient to meet the need for the digital sector in Belgium?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic580x.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the experts agree that the digital economy offers favourable prospects for employment. It is one of the main drivers of economic growth, innovation and job creation. The figures put forward by the Boston Consulting Group seem credible to me as they have been calculated on the basis of a robust economic model, but they are based on very optimistic assumptions involving both a full implementation of the Digital Single Market in the Member States and the creation of the most favourable conditions for the development of the digital competitiveness of economies in terms of innovation, entrepreneurship, access to finance, regulation and digital skills. According to the study of the Higher Council for Employment on the impact of digitisation of the economy on the labour market in Belgium, employment in the information and communication technology sector accounted for 3.8% of total employment in Belgium in 2014, and employment growth in the high-tech professions was significantly higher than that in total employment between 2001 and 2011. In addition, econometric estimates have shown that every new job created in the high-tech sector has resulted in the creation of 3.1 jobs in other sectors, demonstrating the effect of this sector. Most computer-related occupations are experiencing a significant labour shortage. This is confirmed by Agoria's figure, which estimates that there were 14,000 vacancies for computer specialists in Belgium in 2015. In addition, according to the 2016 edition of the Information Society Barometer, 46% of companies who recruited or tried to recruit staff for jobs requiring ICT specialists experienced difficulties filling these positions in Belgium in 2015, compared with 38% at EU level. This figure increased by 8 per cent compared to 2014. As part of Digital Belgium, a series of measures have been and will be taken to create an ecosystem conducive to the development of our digital economy. These measures are part of five priorities: digital infrastructure, the digital economy, trust and security, skills and jobs, and digital government. Secondly, I would like to mention the alliance for digital skills and jobs, which I actively support and which is led by our digital champion, Saskia Van Uffelen. This alliance brings together actors from government, education and the private sector and aims to take initiatives so that every person who lives in Belgium – from child to adult – can acquire and improve digital skills. I would also like to mention the Digital Skills Fund that I announced a few weeks ago. Its budget will be six million for a period of three years. Through this, we will see how to finance projects in terms of digital skills and education, while knowing that collaborations still need to be established with the Communities. I think there is a lot of negativism when it comes to the effects of technology on employment. I think it's wrong. Too often, the man is opposed to the machine. It never happened like that. In general, it is man and machine – one being complementary to the other. The thought that I think should be given is to examine this complementarity. If we live in a period of machine running, we have to ask ourselves what tasks a machine will never be able to perform, and therefore what are the more man-specific capabilities that should take our attention more. Yes, I think we need to bring technology to individuals and to school, but it is also important to focus more on creativity and innovation as well as on the emotional dimension, where complementarity between man and technology is central.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic580x.u3	Minister, thank you for your response and your profession of faith.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic580x.u4	Mr. Chair, Mr.Minister, I bring together my two joint questions for the sake of efficiency. I would like to make a small retroact in relation to this inquisitive case, concerning employment and the relocation of employment to bpost. On November 14, the press echoed a possible 80% move of the bpost IT service to India. This relocation would involve 200 jobs in Belgium. The company responded by stating that no decision had been taken at this stage. In the language of communication, for us, this meant that this project was clearly under consideration. On Tuesday, 22 November, in the Committee on Infrastructure, I asked you about these announcements. You told me that "the IT section of bpost includes 202 internal and 221 external collaborators, the latter from over 100 Belgian IT service providers. As part of the long-term bpost strategy, it was decided to entrust the operational IT to a more limited number of actors. These suppliers will replace the external collaborators who are now carrying out bpost missions. Only the bpost control room will disappear completely, resulting in the loss of seven employees and two managers. There is no outsourcing of activities to low-wage countries." Your answer was clear in relation to the possible relocation of bpost that you categorically denied. On 13 January, the press announced that contracts had been signed by bpost with Indian service companies IT, Infosys and Tata Consultancy to relocate 200 consultancy jobs to India, a country with an average monthly wage of 128 euros, which we call a low-wage country. Minister, why did you say in committee on November 22 that bpost did not intend to relocate part of its IT service since on January 13 we were learning the opposite? At 128 euros per month of average wage, we can only consider India as a low-wage country, in any case which has much lower social and environmental conditions than those practised in Belgium. My next question was about the very fact of moving to a country like India. For a public company as a bpost, which can, moreover, be regarded as performing, do you find that relocation for purely financial reasons is a positive example for the whole of the business world in Belgium? The nature of these reasons was commented on following the announcement of January 13. On this occasion, we heard that these were clearly wage costs, and therefore to relocate to a country where wage costs are lower. There are also other reasons, which are the subject of another of my questions. In particular, it is claimed that bpost would not find enough IT profiles on the Belgian market. That's what the company said. This is quite surprising when you know the labour market in Belgium. What is your reaction, as the minister responsible, to this bpost behaviour and to this reaction following the announcement of the relocation in the press? Finally, of the 221 external employees currently in the process of being replaced by the bpost IT service, how many came from Belgian companies and how many were employed under Belgian employment contracts? Indeed, a part is already outsourced but a priori not to low-wage countries.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic580x.u5	Mr President, Mr Deputy Prime Minister, in committee on 22 November, you said, on bpost: "There is no outsourcing of activities to low-wage countries." Today, just two months later, we learn that the public company, which was going to put 2.5 billion euros on the table to buy PostNL, is about to return to the game of social dumping by outsourcing part of its IT activity in India and eliminating 200 jobs in Belgium. As a reminder, the average monthly wage in India is around $128. Vice-Prime Minister, as we have always said, public companies have a responsibility and an exemplary responsibility that goes beyond their accounting balance sheet. It is up to the government to monitor compliance with bpost's social obligations. It must be noted that at this level, the government has created the conditions for its own failure by depriving itself entirely of corporate management. We had already denounced it at the time: the law passed at the end of 2015 not only allowed the government to privatize bpost and Proximus, but also, on the one hand, removed several mechanisms of control over the management of autonomous public enterprises (EPA) that the government had at its disposal and, on the other hand, allowed bpost and Proximus to make unlimited use of subcontracting. From that point on, the calculation of bpost became only more predictable, since the Michel government plunged these two public companies into a single market logic, far from any social or environmental consideration. Your remarks in committee are no less intriguing, since you have stated to the representatives of the Nation exactly the opposite of what has been decided. Mr Deputy Prime Minister, why did you say in committee on 22 November that bpost would not outsource activities to low-wage countries? Did you question bpost management in this regard? If so, what did she say? Since the law came into force, do you still have legal instruments allowing you to oppose such a decision? Do you intend to take steps to ensure that such decisions are no longer possible without government approval? What will be the fate of the 200 workers involved? As you may know, I am very attentive to your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic580x.u6	Mr President, Minister, the press of this 13 January revealed that bpost would do without the services of 200 computer scientists. They are independents subcontracted to bpost by the company AGS. bpost announced that the contract would cease in the following days. As of 16 January, all IT tasks were transferred to Infosys and Tata Consultancy, two companies located in India. As for the 200 internal computer specialists at bpost, they received external tasks. Management's decision is justified by two arguments: the reduction of costs and the need to be able to manage the future digital economy. As a result of this decision, trade unions have made various criticisms. They note that, still recently, bpost tried to acquire the Dutch item for 2.55 billion euros, and that in 2016, 307 million euros of dividends were paid. Despite its profits, bpost justifies its decision by the need to reduce costs. On the other hand, management has always argued that rumours about outsourcing information technology services are premature. However, one of the external tasks now assigned to internal computer scientists is precisely to educate Indian computer scientists. The know-how is therefore present in Belgium. As the first justification has been criticized, it can therefore be criticized. Outsourcing information technology services carries risks, including slow response to computer or security problems. Minister, do you agree with the fact that a public enterprise, whose role can be expected as an example, is shifting its important tasks to low-cost countries? Do you agree with the practices of bpost management in this case, specifically about the speed at which the decision was put in place and about the denial until the last moment of making this decision? As the minister responsible for the company, what measures do you intend to take? Has your reform of bpost governance opened the door to such decisions harmful to the Belgian economy?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic580x.u7	As my colleagues have pointed out, the press relayed the news that bpost was going to separate 200 IT consultants and relocate their jobs to India as soon as next month. This information would come from an internal communication of the group. The head of the department would have explained that this measure was "necessary to manage costs". Rumors had been circulating on this relocation for some time, but the management had always denied them. However, it appears that the contracts have been signed with the Indian companies lnfosys and Tata Consultancy, so that they develop all the new applications. I don't understand how a profitable public company – since it can make an offer of 2.55 billion euros on the Dutch post – is moving its ICT department to a low-wage country to "manage its costs"! Minister, do you confirm this information? What is your position on this information? Do you find it normal for a company that can afford to make an offer of 2.55 billion euros on the Dutch post office to relocate a department to a low-wage country in order to "manage its costs"?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic580x.u8	Minister, I was spotted in November, and not from India for the record, that bpost would outsource a number of activities. Since I had doubts as to whether that could be true, I asked you a question about this at the committee meeting of 22 November 2016, to which my fellow Members have already referred. We find it a remarkable step that, despite the importance of activation, the need to keep our social security healthy and the impact of digitalisation on our economy, a public sector agency with 202 permanent employees and 221 external employees decides to cancel. The employees involved were even asked to train the new people, after which they will say goodbye to who they trained and to their own job, not to mention some cynicism. Surely that cannot be the intention, was the message of people from bpost to me. In reply to my question on this subject, you answered very sincerely that only cooperation with external staff would be terminated and that there was no externalisation of activities to low-wage countries. But since November 22nd, nothing has changed. Worse still, a number of steps were accelerated. It seems to be considered internally that, now that the political world is aware of this and has been reported in the newspapers, it is necessary to proceed with the outsourcing plans. I have surfed a few times to the Infanion website, the company that will drive in the activities that are being outsourced, and found that there has been an outsourcing in the past. I would therefore like to ask you the following very specific questions in order to give us an idea of the way in which the decision was taken. How many of the 202 permanent employees will keep their jobs at bpost? Will the cooperation with all 221 external employees be terminated? Why was it chosen to end the cooperation? What is the status of external staff? Is a trajectory being developed to guide them to new assignments? What exactly does it mean that there will be outsourcing to "suppliers of a limited number of market players"? Which market players are they? Where are they located? On 22 November, we raised the issue here. What actions have you taken since then to avoid outsourcing? Do you think it is logical that, as part of the notion of corporate governance, companies in which the government is an important partner for the sake of profit maximization, do outsourcing and thereby increase unemployment?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic580x.u9	Deputy Prime Minister, it is quite rare for nine different parliamentarians to ask a question on the same subject. It is also a sign that this is a problem. When we come to this kind of situation – in terms of cooperation it may be good, but it goes so counter-influenced by the Post Office's objective – that is an issue for us. This makes us think a bit of a Liegeese company that comes to buy a Nice-Matin newspaper or in Corsica, which has nothing to do with the objective of society. Asked by the unions that had been hit to see 200 jobs go to India, which they consider to be a camouflage to the employees of the company – IT consultants who previously worked for the company – the management explained that for questions of speed and cost, this solution was the best! They are all the more apprehensive as the company was still on a bonus this year and is not in a difficult situation. It recently attempted to acquire its Dutch neighbour for the sum of EUR 2.55 billion. Deputy Prime Minister, can you inform us about bpost's wage policy? Can you inform us about the nature of the contract? How do you appreciate that a company whose capital is largely public does not support the government's employment policy by recruiting Belgians trained in Belgium with Belgian money? It probably didn't suddenly appear to the company that she would need these positions to carry out her entrepreneurial policy. How does it explain its need to recruit abroad in order to meet a rapid need in this area? How much is the difference in cost between recruitment in Belgium and recruitment in India? Does this justify this choice? This is all the more challenging because Belgium is known for the quality and number of its computer scientists. Are we now in short supply in this industry? If this is not the case, will our computer scientists have to go abroad to find a job? Should they go to India? What did you ask bpost about these issues? How are you going to make this file evolve?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic580x.u10	Mr President, I believe that the problem has been sufficiently addressed by the previous speakers. bpost has plans to outsource a large part of the ICT work, including to India. It goes without saying that public enterprises have a social role and an exemplary role. In addition, they must be responsible for anyone who works directly or indirectly for them. You will notice that I make a link to Proximus, also a public company. Such practice has been going on there for a while. How many Indians are employed in Bpost by subcontracting in Belgium and India respectively? What is the expectation for the coming years? How many Indians are employed at Proximus by subcontracting in Belgium and India respectively? What is the expectation there for the coming years? How does bpost monitor wage and working conditions in the case of subcontracting? Do bpost contracts provide for sanctions and checks on wage and working conditions? Is the contract broken in the event of possible infringements? How does Proximus monitor wage and working conditions in subcontracting? Does Proximus' contracts provide for sanctions and checks on wage and working conditions? Is the contract broken in the event of infringements here, too? How many checks took place at Proximus? Have sanctions already been imposed and pronounced? Over the past five years have there been surveys of the labour inspectorate at bpost, Proximus or one of their subcontractors with regard to wage and working conditions? Finally, what is the state of the social dialogue at bpost with regard to outsourcing? The decision on outsourcing did not arrive properly with the trade unions and the staff.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic580x.u11	Colleagues, in a constantly changing world, technology is changing so rapidly that companies must continually review their business models to be in line with today's digital economy. Regardless of the company, the ICT department plays a crucial role in this regard. These services must foster innovation, but also ensure operational excellence and continuity. The challenges that departments face include cybersecurity, privacy data protection, e-commerce, mobile applications, cloud and other developments in the IT field. The IT department of bpost faces enormous challenges today. Bpost claims that the organisation of the IT department mortgaged the achievement of the strategic IT objectives. bpost works with 202 own IT employees and on top of that with more than a hundred companies, who supply more than two hundred external employees or freelancers. The course of the freelancers was very large. Half stayed on board for less than a year at the expense of efficiency and innovation. It became increasingly difficult to achieve the desired results with this way of working. Due to the acute shortage of IT personnel in Belgium, it became increasingly difficult for bpost to find replacements for the many movers. In the previous question I mentioned: Agoria estimates that in our country there are 13 to 14 000 vacancies for IT professionals, of which more than 3 000 are in the Brussels region. Anyone who believes that there is no problem, given the unemployment in Belgium, is obviously not that simple a solution. There is a huge shortage of IT staff in our country. This also applies to the whole of Europe. It clearly indicates a lack of reactivity and training in our labour market. All companies in our country have a huge difficulty in finding IT professionals, so much so that the IT employees they find have also become very choosy. For example, they say they want to carry out certain activities themselves, because they are interesting and pay well. However, for the more repetitive IT activities, which may be less challenging, it becomes impossible to find IT service providers. This applies to bpost and Proximus, but also to most of our banks. In particular, this applies to our SMEs. They often find it much more difficult to bring in IT service providers, as they have to compete with large companies. bpost has therefore decided to replace more than 100 suppliers with two stable partners who have the necessary IT skills and knowledge to carry out more operational tasks and support activities. Activities that are crucial to the company's strategy and future continue to be carried out within the ICT bpost department. I announced in November that no activity would be outsourced to countries at very low wage costs. This statement was based on the information that bpost provided to me. A few weeks ago, I learned from the press that bpost was starting cooperation with two Indian companies. The bpost information on which I relied in November to inform you was therefore clearly misleading. I asked bpost about this and I received the following explanation. bpost said that it had never had the intention or strategy to outsource activities to low-wage countries. In July 2016, bpost published a public procurement contract, in accordance with public procurement legislation, in the European Official Journal and in the Procurement Bulletin, for the subcontracting of the development, maintenance, integration and support of IT applications. Following this public procurement procedure, in which each company could participate, the contract was awarded to two companies, Infusys Limited ( headquartered in Frankfurt) and Tata Consultancy Services Belgium (headquartered in Zaventem). These are well-known players who already work for large Belgian companies such as Delhaize, Cora, BNP Paribas Fortis, ENGIE, Bekaert and Telenet. In addition, they invest in European capacity. One of these companies employs nearly 1,200 people in Europe, including France, Switzerland and Belgium. Both companies are therefore European companies whose parent company is based in India. The work they will do for bpost will also take place in India. bpost follows a trend that has been going on for years, namely the outsourcing by many Belgian and European companies of executive activities to other countries, sometimes indeed to India. For the sake of completeness, bpost spends like each company a number of clearly defined and limited projects in size. These are projects in which a specific contract has to be carried out at a predetermined price. Companies that participate in these projects, especially when it comes to IT companies, often have branches all over the world. The companies themselves decide in which country the contract is to be executed. Often there is both domestic and foreign input. I do not need to remind you that bpost's operational and strategic management is entirely in the hands of management and the board of directors. The government doesn't intervene in this. No permanent staff will be made redundant in Bpost's ICT department. In addition, the phase-out of current suppliers is gradually taking place, with December 2017 as the intended deadline, so that current suppliers in the tight Belgian IT market can also ensure new contracts for their freelancers. The 200 freelancers to whom bpost says goodbye should therefore not immediately fear that they will fall without orders, given the huge shortage of IT service providers. With regard to Mr Yüksel's question on the number of Indians employed, I received the following information from bpost and Proximus. There are currently 13 nationalities other than the Belgian ones present in the ICT department of bpost, including the Indian. The outsourcing we are discussing in the context of the questions is about a capacity of about 160 employees, of which bpost does not know nationality now. bpost expects half of them to work in bpost's premises for the first few years. The number of Indians employed by subcontracting at Proximus is about 500 in Belgium and nine hundred in India, respectively. In addition, Proximus employs 650 mainly local contractors on a temporary basis to carry out his projects. Proximus does not expect any fundamental changes in the short term. A light shift from employees in Belgium to India cannot be ruled out. As regards the monitoring of wages and working conditions, the agreements concluded with external IT partners provide for all necessary contractual guarantees for implementation in compliance with Belgian social legislation. bpost has not so far had any study of foreign workers by the Social Inspectorate. Bpost cannot, of course, comment on the possible actions of the Social Inspectorate with outsourcing partners. There was a social inspection on the premises of Proximus, concerning the outsourcing of computer services. Proximus was not the subject of the inspection. Social consultation was carried out according to the teams in the competent consultation bodies of bpost. It is totally wrong to say that outsourcing leads to additional unemployment in our country. In the ICT sector, there is an absolute shortage. I have also explained the difficulties involved in keeping the staff who carried out the outsourced tasks up and running. Today, demand in the ICT sector is much higher than supply and it has become very difficult for most companies to carry out the tasks in our country. The fact that the activities are being carried out does, however, create secondary jobs. In a previous question, I explained that the derivative employment for each ICT job is about 3.1 other jobs. If one fails to carry out the ICT activities, those jobs will also be lost. The very big difficulty was to be able to find employees for that kind of ICT jobs in our country. In the end, the decision was taken to outsource these tasks. Failure to perform such ICT functions will have a very large impact on a different type of activity. It is therefore wrong to say that the outsourcing of these tasks creates more unemployment.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic580x.u12	Mr President, I thank the Minister for his answers, which I do not think are extremely convincing and on which I would like to return, point by point. With regard to the procedure and the different information at your disposal between 22 November and 13 January, it is inquiring that bpost communicates to you elements on 22 November which lead you not to want to relocate to low-wage countries and that then, on the basis of other information, concerning two Indian companies profitable for our public company, you change your mind, thus mocking the world and demonstrating an inefficient way of communication. We regret your attitude. Looking at the bottom of the case, you tell us that there will be no dry dismissal. Of course, but if this is not about employees but about 221 external collaborators, these 221 people lose their jobs, even if it is not about bpost. They will be replaced by external consultants from Infosys and Tata Consultancy. Where will these consultants be employed, in Belgium or India? Will they all benefit from Belgian employment contracts? In this context, the nationality of consultants is of little importance, especially in terms of where they will be based and with what type of contract. Indeed, if the contracts are concluded abroad, in forms other than those related to our legislation, there is a relocation! Words should not be played, and that should be considered. I also asked you, of the 221 external employees of the IT service, how many are based in Belgium, under contract of employment subject to Belgian legislation? You also say that in Belgium, we would not find enough experienced IT collaborators. You cited the numbers of Agoria, but the day after the announcement of bpost, you denounced this justification! I didn't find the dispatch, but I'm convinced. I could find her later. You said, "How is that possible?" This is not just the labour market in terms of unemployment rates which amazes - even if, at least, bpost must make the effort to find consultants in Belgium - but for this type of work it is astonished that a successful public company does not set an example. It's a matter of concern and, in our opinion, it's even serious. To reply to us that we can't find profiles in Belgium is very unbelievable. Profiles are available in Brussels, Wallonia and Flanders. This excuse hides another one that is cost reduction and reflects a short-term vision. We're going to cut costs to the maximum, and we're going to use companies that outsource in low-wage countries. That's why. That is how we interpret it. We believe that this is contrary to a company's public service tasks as a bpost. That is therefore absolutely regrettable. This decision will really have to be reconsidered because we have the impression, here, that it is something normal. If you are listened to, bpost has only respected market and international competition rules. No, it's not. Public service tasks are not fulfilled, for a company that, I repeat, is efficient and has to lead by example. This is a very regrettable situation. And you can't even say "you have to do this to save bpost," that's not true! The last point I would have liked to hear from you, minister, is your opinion, as the appropriate minister. What is your political view of a company as a bpost using this type of outsourced contract? I think it's important to have the government's opinion, the appropriate minister's opinion, on what happened. You didn't give it.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic580x.u13	Mr. President, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, do you feel unease? Do you feel the problem? Mr Flahaux, a prominent member of the MR, responsible for the international relations of the only French-speaking party in the government - your Francophone ally, I dare say, your French-speaking brother - says that "nine parliamentarians on the same subject is that there is a problem". Today, there is a political problem. You're telling us here that you've been deceived. I use your words: "The information I received was misleading." On 22 November, you actually told us that there would be nothing like this. And that has been done. Then, as my colleague Vanden Burre says, what do you think? We know we don't share some ideas. But I'm worried about this "everything private" and I'm opposed to it. You have put in place legislation that allows this. I ask the question: what do you think? What does your government think? This law was passed, but I did not have an answer to my question on that occasion. What is still in your hands to oppose this type of decision? What do you think? If you have not been informed beforehand, as you say today, I imagine that as the minister responsible, you said to yourself: "But what have they been doing there? I'm going to have to legitimize this." Or do you think, "Perfect! The free trade system is fully functioning. Our companies are companies like others, it's normal." You are putting forward the idea of a shortage of computer scientists willing to perform systematic tasks. I can hear him. But today, you are deputy prime minister, minister responsible, you are not informed and you feel wrong. What do you really intend to do about this decision and the government's involvement in it? I can't let that go, it's impossible. Mr President, I therefore raise a motion asking the government for certain things, given its ambition to create 50,000 jobs in the digital sector, and given the decision to relocate 200 qualified jobs directly related to the digital economy, for reasons of social dumping, since that is what this is all about. We have often talked, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, about social dumping. I heard the Prime Minister say, "We are doing everything we can to fight." Except that with the legislation you put in place, you allow it; you strengthen it. Moreover, at the level of public enterprises, this is not the case. I know that you are a supporter of depoliticization – we debated it in the gallery in plenary session. But, here's the thing today, we see where it takes us. I know we do not agree, but I really want to hear from you about this. We call on the government to ban public or public-sector enterprises from relocation abroad of the services and jobs attached to them, to establish a binding legal framework for public or public-sector enterprises to be a driving force and an example of creating and maintaining quality employment, to reintroduce the office of the Commissioner of Government to ensure government control over the company's decisions. That would allow you, Minister, not to feel deceived, to be informed, and I believe that, for a Deputy Prime Minister, it is important not to be deceived and to be informed. Otherwise, you will find yourself here answering what you can answer us today. Finally, it is important to effectively combat social dumping by guaranteeing the quality of employment in Belgium. I believe that, at least on that term, we can join, and I expect, of course, a further response to this. I will put my question to Mr. President.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic580x.u14	Mr Vanden Burre, you have already had the floor. Be very brief.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic580x.u15	Mr President, I will only read three lines. Deputy Prime Minister, I found your statement on Friday 13 January on the VRT website, www.deredactie.be and I quote you. I would like to have a word with you on this. I think that we in our country have people who can do this kind of work, unless there is a problem and we do not have the necessary expertise here. We have IT people who are good. The digitisation of society does not mean to export jobs. I think it's the intention to create jobs. Honestly, on January 13, you thought exactly like us. You have changed your mind in the meantime, but I wanted to show you the inconsistency of your answer with what you were saying at the time of the bpost announcement.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic580x.u16	Mr. Minister, first of all, your explanation does not hold. Your statement as quoted by my colleague Vanden Burre demonstrates this. bpost itself invokes wage costs; bpost management itself acknowledges that there is another reason. Nor is it important to say that there are too few computer scientists on the market and, at the same time, to get rid of 200 of them. Look for logic. Finally, the role of a company, a fortiori public, is also to train and keep its staff. We know that at bpost, turnover is very important, not only for computer scientists but for all staff. We have a government and a prime minister who say "Jobs! Jobs! Jobs!" And here, we delete it to make "Dividends! Divide! Divide!" This is not the role of a public enterprise, minister. A public enterprise is not meant to seek maximum profit. This decision has a negative impact on employment, on wages because we are going to have a domino effect; on the quality of services because we have to expect a lower reactivity of the ICT service; on budgetary returns for the State because we are going to lose in prepayments and social contributions. It is a bit paradoxical that the majority shareholder will penalize himself. Minister, you acknowledge that you have been deceived by the bpost management. Imagine that a management of a private company lies to its private principal shareholder. She'd be at the door right now. And you, you take a slap without reacting. You don't do anything, worse, you defend the version of the direction by changing your shoulder rifle. You endorse both the culture of profit and the culture of lie. Is that the definition of liberal ideology?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic580x.u17	Mr President, Minister, I fully align myself with the comments made by my colleague, Mr Devin. Politically, it is completely unacceptable to hear such a response. From a reliable source, I have just learned from a person working in the European IT sector that it is quite possible to find competent IT specialists at this European level. Indian companies are used only for cost reductions and low wages. That's the only reason.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic580x.u18	Minister, you said to the editor.be that you believe that there are people available in our country who can carry out IT tasks. At the same time, you are talking about a serious shortage of IT personnel. I think that, as Minister for Digital Agenda, you will have to talk to the regions about a way of dealing with this problem through education, although that will not be for immediate action. There are plenty of tools. You are talking about a shortage of repetitive tasks, but it seems to me that for a number of years now it has been the task of the Digital Agenda Minister to deal with the problem and to examine what measures have been taken in this area. I think there is another reason why I should like to add my fellow Members - that is to say, profit maximization. For example, I note that tasks that the company outsourced to Bangalore in India are being outsourced to another region, particularly Bangladesh, every time to feed the profit appetite. It's over for me the shame that a public body does the same. If that were another company, for example near Brakel, you would join in protesting because people are outsourced to low-wage countries. This is a state-owned company that makes huge profits and where apparently only dividends count. Secondly, you claim to have gotten wrong information from bpost. When we asked these questions in November, a PowerPoint presentation was already given to the various companies involved here at the Sheratonhotel in Brussels. If I'm getting that information, I assume you've been given that information as a competent minister. You are talking about a current trend. It is, of course, the responsibility of a government, a government in this area, a majority, to pursue a policy to counter this trend in public enterprises. It is difficult to say that such practices are detected, while the companies concerned are themselves responsible for them. Finally, I learned something new. I also follow the social dumping dossiers and learn from them that there are 200 trucks for companies in Romania and Bulgaria, while their parking is large enough to put a mailbox there. Here a company based in Bonheiden, advertises in Bonheiden, while there is no activity and all assignments are carried out in Bangalore.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic580x.u19	Deputy Prime Minister, in fact, there is a great deal of frustration in this matter. First of all, I want to say that it is obviously healthy that companies like bpost and Proximus have arrived - it changes us in recent years - to be companies that make profits. Luckily! Because a business that doesn't make profits tends to disappear. That's clear. But here we are in full contradiction with the issue of social dumping, because all the countries of Western Europe have entrusted the task of changing the rules of social dumping to Mrs Marianne Thyssen, the European Commissioner. Indeed, it is not normal that people who arrive here should not be paid, both in terms of wages and social security contributions, at the same level as Belgians or foreigners residing in Belgium. Here, in the end, the problem is being circumvented and social dumping is being carried out somewhere abroad. It's not right. I also believe that, in this context, when there is a need, we must check that it cannot be filled in our own country, then throughout the European Union. And if we can't, at the limit, make employment contracts for Indians who come here and are paid in Belgium with Belgian social security contributions and wages and not in that way. This, of course, seems totally unacceptable to us on the issue of social security. I would point out that this would also contribute to the government's objective of creating jobs, jobs and jobs. We've created 105,000 of them in the last two years. Let us continue to do so, not through this social dumping abroad.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic580x.u20	Minister, I think that the indignation expressed by several people here and you in the newspaper is justified. I don't think outsourcing in itself is the problem. I have put particular emphasis in my question on wage conditions and working conditions. I think that we should focus on this in particular. As Mr Flahaux said, outsourcing abroad for a public undertaking is not a good example. In my question I also made the link with Proximus. By the way, I did not get an answer to all my questions. Perhaps you could do that in writing. Proximus shows that outsourcing does not only work for employees but also for consumers. We must evaluate this and draw the necessary lessons from it. A public undertaking which works with public funds must be very sparing in the field of outsourcing and, in the first instance, ensure that the jobs are filled by its own nationals. If that really is not possible, we in Europe must look for opportunities. The government must also take part in the reflection on the need in the sector, so that we try to alleviate it ourselves.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic580x.u21	In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. A motion for recommendation was tabled by Mr. Laurent Devin and reads as follows: The Chamber, having heard the inquiry of Mr Laurent Devin and the response of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Development Cooperation, Digital Agenda, Telecommunications and Post Office, - given the government's ambition to create 50,000 digital jobs, - having regard to the decision of bpost to relocate 200 skilled jobs directly linked to the digital economy for reasons of social dumping, asks the government - prohibit public or public-sector undertakings from relocation abroad of services and jobs connected with them; - to define a binding legal framework for public or public-private enterprises to be a driving force and an example of creating and maintaining quality jobs; - to reintroduce the office of Commissioner of the Government to guarantee the government's control over the company's decisions; - to effectively combat social dumping by guaranteeing the quality of employment in Belgium. A motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr Laurent Devin and reads as follows: The Chamber, heard the interplay of Mr Laurent Devin and the reply of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Development Cooperation, Digital Agenda, Telecommunications and Post, - having regard to the Government's ambition to create 50 000 jobs in the digital sector, - having regard to the decision of Bpost to delocalise 200 qualified jobs directly linked to the digital economy for social dumping, asks the government - prohibit public enterprises and public-sector companies from delocalising services and associated jobs; - establish a binding legal framework to ensure that public enterprises and public-sector companies are a driving force for job creation and job retention and take an exemplary role in this respect; - re-introduce the role of government commissioner at bpost to ensure government control over company decisions; - to tackle social dumping by ensuring the quality of work in our country. A simple motion was tabled by Ms Nele Lijnen and by Messrs. Jean-Jacques Flahaux and Veli Yüksel. A simple motion was tabled by Mrs Nele Lijnen and Mr Jean-Jacques Flahaux and Mr Veli Yüksel. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed. The motions will be voted on later. The meeting's over.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic580x.u22	Mr President, I believe that, in the replies, questions have been put to the Deputy Prime Minister. We're here; we're here. I really wish I could hear his reaction to our reply. It's not a trap. It is simply a concern for parliamentary democracy. Mr Deputy Prime Minister, your answer has raised further questions and I would like to hear you, like colleagues Vanden Burre, Van Hees, Flahaux, Yüksel and Poncelet. Everyone is asking if you, in your role as Deputy Prime Minister, have encouraged this through the decisions your government has taken. Do you have a problem with that? What do you intend to do in the future, both at legislative and government level, so that this does not happen again? Do you dispute that? What do you think about being deceived, not being informed in your political responsibility as Deputy Prime Minister? That, I believe, deserves an answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic580x.u23	Your question is clear, Mr Devin. On the basis of the Rules of Procedure, we cannot oblige the Minister to provide additional answers. If you have any further questions, you can submit them to our committee. The Minister is free to respond now or not and to await your questions, which you can retable for discussion in committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic580x.u24	On 1 January 2017, a month ago, Proximus increased its old rates. The prices of new products remain unchanged. In the case of packages and internet access, the increase is usually between one and two euro(s) per month. As far as mobile subscriptions are concerned, it is rather around one euro per month. The least expensive formulas will increase by more or less two euros per month. The price of the non-package MB also increases. A total of 99 products are affected by this increase, which is still being used by many citizens. Proximus was very discreet about this price increase. According to the public company, as I quote, "this price increase will continue to ensure optimal customer experience". In a difficult economic context, it is deplorable to ask our citizens to untie a little more their stock exchange for services as important as the Internet, telephony and mobile telephony. What are the objective reasons for this rate increase? How many users will be affected by this increase? Were Proximus customers informed by mail of this price increase? Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic580x.u25	The increase in prices clearly indicates a lack of competition in the telecoms market. I am critical of this, just as I was previously. A company is obviously free to fix the prices of its products, but the consumer always has the last word. He can consult the prices and opt for the price that he considers best. We note, however, that in our country few people do so and, even less, change operators. We will therefore strengthen the power of the consumer in the telecoms sector. First, we will facilitate the change of telecom operator for customers. At present, changing operators involves an entire administrative procedure and there is also a risk that television and internet services will be interrupted. In mid-2017, a system will allow people to easily change their operator, just as it is today for the supply of gas and electricity. We will also encourage citizens to compare rates on better rate.be. Too few people are doing it right now. However, there are often cheaper packages for their needs, perhaps offered by another operator. With the liberalisation of cable, a third operator offering Internet, television and telephone services has emerged. This company has already announced that it intends to wake up the market. An additional player in the telecom market means in the long term more competition, more pressure on prices and more choice for the consumer. That's a good thing. The customers concerned were informed via their invoice from 1 November and, in accordance with the law of 13 June 2005, have the possibility to terminate their contract free of charge if they refuse the increase. Proximus considers that the number of customers affected by a price increase is confidential.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic580x.u26	Minister, thank you for your answers. In a rather positive way, I take note of the fact that you are going to put in place the means to simplify the change between operators. It is indeed necessary, we have had the same discussions at the banking level: the change of operator is a barrier for our citizens. The fact of being able to compare prices goes in the right direction. As you say, Proximus takes advantage of its very dominant position in the Belgian market to impact the citizens' portfolio. We can only regret it. I take note of the steps you are going to take.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic580x.u27	Minister, on Friday 16 December, Dominique Leroy, CEO of Proximus, announced a €3 billion investment plan over ten years to deploy fibre optics to individuals and businesses. The aim is to switch the fixed internet into the gigabit era per second. The aim is also to anticipate the explosion of the needs that should result from the arrival of a whole series of new technologies (virtual reality, connected objects, ultra-high definition video, cloud applications, etc.). This is very good news, because fiber is considered the ideal foundation on which to build, tomorrow, the fifth generation mobile internet (the 5G). It will allow connections at a speed ten times higher than some currently know. While technology will be deployed primarily in densely populated zoning, business and large urban centres, it is planned to accelerate the growth of fibre optics with a view to reaching 85 per cent of enterprises by 2027 and more than 50 per cent of households by 2032. But what about rural areas? The press reports that these areas will not be affected by this plan, as its application is considered priceless. In June, in response to one of my questions, you explained that 2,263 housing units in Wallonia did not have access to a one megabit per second connection. These dwellings are located mainly in rural localities, where the population density is very low. You also stated that, in order to improve the situation of these municipalities in Wallonia, a high-speed take-off plan in areas without 30 megabit per second Internet access should be developed in the coming months. While some families and businesses will soon be able to benefit from state-of-the-art technology, it is truly regrettable that not all citizens are placed on an equal footing and that some do not have access to the Internet at all. Minister, what is the status of this high-speed take-off plan for areas without internet access? What is it? What is envisaged in practice so that everyone can benefit from proper access to the Internet? Three billion are programmed for this project. What is planned for rural areas?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic580x.u28	Mr Minister, in addition to my colleague Mrs Poncelet's well-explained question, the rural area aspect of my question, I would like to add two points, in particular in connection with the Prime Minister's announcement on the investment pact. One of the three sectors targeted is the digital agenda. To what extent is this investment announced by Proximus already part of this national pact, of the 10 billion announced by Charles Michel? In the press, there was still some ambiguity about this issue. Will the state intervene in this investment? Is it part of the investment pact announced by the Prime Minister? Will the introduction of fairly expensive technologies have an impact on Proximus' tariffs? What are the guarantees for services provided outside urban areas and densely populated areas? What will become of the hundreds of kilometers of copper cables that will be replaced by fiber optics?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic580x.u29	A pilot project has been set up involving the Belgian Institute for Postal Services and Telecommunications (IBPT) and 39 Walloon municipalities. A first meeting with the municipalities concerned and the Digital Agency was held on 19 October 2016. This was the first time they had been invited, and no minister really took care of them. The main stakeholders seemed rather happy to have an interlocutor. On that occasion, the IBPT referred to different possible approaches for a solution. A bottom-up approach, directly involving stakeholders and taking into account the specificities of each situation, would lead to a comprehensive solution to this problem. From this perspective, questionnaires were sent to the municipalities and their inhabitants, in order to draw up a precise diagnosis of the concrete problems encountered in the various areas. Operators were invited to present their investment plans in the municipalities concerned. In the coming weeks, responses to the questionnaire will be examined in detail in order to better understand the situation in those territories. Working meetings will be held with the municipalities under comparable conditions to develop the solutions. The role of the government, the regulator's government, is to create an environment conducive to competition and investment. Several initiatives have been taken to promote investment in general and coverage of rural areas, such as specific coverage targets under a 4G licence. Three billion have been earmarked for the deployment of fibre optics by Proximus. Although this investment fits perfectly into the investment pact announced by the Prime Minister, the state does not intervene in any way in the financing of Fiber for Belgium. According to information provided by Proximus, the three billion euros mentioned are intended to deploy fiber optics in the most densely populated areas mainly but also to continue the densification of its FTC network (fibres to the street cabins) and the shortening of the average length of the copper pairs. These technical developments will result in improved internet access also available in less densely populated areas. The allocation of the €3 billion envelope between densely populated and less densely populated areas is not known. Proximus plans to continue to invest in the latest DSL technologies and to continue to evolve the coverage and speeds of its copper network up to 250 Mb through VDSL and the densification of optical platforms through the installation of new street cabinets and new fibers. For the hundreds of kilometres of copper cable, thus replaced, this part of the copper network may be decommissioned once all customers of part of the copper network have migrated to the fibre network. With regard to the impact of Proximus' tariffs, I would remind you that Proximus is an autonomous public company free to determine its commercial policy. It is not for me to intervene in the day-to-day management or commercial policy of the company. Proximus prices for fibre will be communicated in a timely manner based on market developments and customer needs.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic580x.u30	Minister, I would like to remind you that remote rural areas are entitled to their fair share in the equipment that is planned. I'm counting on you to let Proximus know. When it comes to paying taxes, everyone contributes for their part and to receive public services, even if they live in a remote area, everyone is entitled to their fair share too!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic580x.u31	Minister, thank you for your answers. I take note that the State will not intervene financially, that this point does not appear in the investment plan, even if conceptually, it could have been there, as announced. I repeat the importance of supporting the less densely populated areas. Citizens living in these areas should not feel "abandoned" by telephone companies or postal companies. This is a fundamental aspect and as long as they are public enterprises, their role as a public service mission is relied upon. As far as copper cables are concerned, I understand that it is necessary to wait for them to become out of service, but my question was mainly about what we will do with them. We're talking about hundreds of kilometres and, from an ecological point of view, it's important to know what we're going to do with all this copper when customers migrate to the new system.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic580x.u32	Minister, Proximus has just announced its intention to commercialize its users' data. The company proposes to sell data reports for 700 euros, issued within 48 hours. This service, called MyAnalytics, is aimed at public authorities, event organizers and businesses. They will be able to obtain data on the provenance, location and movement of Proximus customers. They will be able to use this information for their own publicity. It will thus be better targeted and adapted. The SIM card also provides information about the user's region or country of origin. In short, it is a formidable marketing tool. The accuracy of the data is quite impressive: there is a margin of 10 to 50 meters. The data is stored in the long term. They can be provided in real time, even if the user disables his location service. Proximus customers must not give explicit consent to such exploitation of their data. It is sufficient that they have given their consent for the general conditions. According to Proximus, mobile phone data are processed and aggregated anonymously. In this regard, the head of the innovation department at Proximus said: "If customers are told what it is, they are very quickly afraid. On the other hand, if they are told that it's aggregated and anonymous, most people don't really understand what's happening." This statement suggests that not all transparency is made to Proximus' clients, our fellow citizens. In conclusion, Proximus' MyAnalytics department raises ethical, security, personal data protection and privacy issues, especially since Proximus is a public company. Minister, how will this data be collected and sold? Where will this data be stored and for how long? What are the safeguards against the risk of data theft? How will these data be anonymized? What are the guarantees of respect for the privacy of our citizens? To what type of companies will the data be sold? Are there any guarantees, beacons, types of companies to which data would not be sold? Why not ask users for more explicit agreement than the general terms and conditions to allow their data to be used? Has the Privacy Commission issued an opinion on this new service?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic580x.u33	Minister, Proximus will sell its users' data. Indeed, Proximus will market market studies based on the geolocation of marketable mobile phones. Named MyAnalytics, this service is aimed at public authorities, event organizers and businesses, who will be able to access data on the provenance, location and movement of Proximus customers, also paving the way for promotional targeting. Reuse for marketing purposes of private data is strictly regulated by Belgian law. Article 9 of the Law on the Protection of Privacy in Respect of the Processing of Personal Data provides, in particular, that "the controller (...) shall provide the data subject with the data concerning him or her, and at the latest at the time when the data are obtained, at least the information listed below, unless the data subject is already informed of this: (...) the existence of a right to object, on request and free of charge, to the processing of personal data concerning him or her, envisaged for direct marketing purposes". Minister, what are the measures taken by the public enterprise to ensure that its clients comply with privacy legislation? Will Proximus customers be able to oppose the use of the data they generate for marketing purposes? Do you not think that the Privacy Commission should be consulted on this project?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic580x.u34	The location data that Proximus obtains via its mobile network are made anonymous, in order to make it impossible, using reasonable means, to establish a link between the location data and an identifiable customer. On the basis of anonymized location data, Proximus prepares reports on the location and movement of persons. As an additional measure to exclude the risk of re-identification, reports relate only to the location and movement of groups of at least 30 people. Reports do not deal with any other type of personal data such as age or gender. However, location data may provide information on the country of origin, which may be useful for tourist services or for mobility purposes. The parties generally interested in purchasing such reports are local authorities or cities, public tourism services, event organizers (e.g. the Brussels Christmas market), transport companies, etc. The data is encrypted internally at Proximus. Clients who purchase a report do not have access to the anonymous data that allowed this report to be prepared. Only a limited team of Proximus employees, subject to confidentiality, has access to the data. Proximus has conducted a broad consultation with the Commission for the Protection of Privacy on this type of service. In the first half of 2017, the company will carry out a Privacy Impact Assessment, which it will forward to the Commission. Proximus' policy in this area is to inform customers that their location data can be anonymized and aggregated reports provided to third parties. Since these data have been made anonymous, the company is not required to seek the consent of its customers for this use, nor to propose an opt-out option (withdrawal option). It is for the competent authorities, in particular the Commission for the Protection of Privacy, to determine the appropriate penalties for infringements of the relevant legislation. Proximus is not the only company offering such services. Other national and international operators – Deutsche Telekom, Telekom Austria, Telefónica – also draw up such reports. Proximus is an autonomous public company, free of its strategic and commercial choices. In addition, it distributes and invests its revenues independently, like any other business. As you certainly know, Proximus recently announced significant investments in fibre and its mobile network.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic580x.u35	Minister, we are dealing here with extremely sensitive issues. We know that the development of digital technologies is general and not just about mobile telephony. This also applies to applications (internet, smartphone, tracing, etc.) It is well known that this raises enormous questions in terms of privacy protection and the limits to be set in the commercialization of databases. This is where the problem arises. I understand that it is anonymous, that other operators do the same in different countries and that Proximus is not obliged to ask for the formal agreement of users. However, I believe that there should be a more educational way to create a greater awareness among customers of what the operator, in this case Proximus, can do from their personal data. That is a fundamental question. We must not simply sign the general terms and conditions. It would be interesting to learn about the recommendations of the Privacy Commission or other bodies. Too many users, too many of our citizens are not aware of this possibility – this is even more embarrassing in this case. That is what I wanted to comment on at this stage.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic580x.u36	Mr Minister, in summary, everything is fine... I would ask that, in the report, points of suspension be placed after "everything is fine", so that we do not misunderstand my point!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic580x.u37	Minister, we have often had the opportunity here to discuss the working conditions of bpost employees, following various reports and actions that were also undertaken last year by staff. After work stoppages, etc., it has often been discussed. We have often asked for figures on the well-being of bpost employees in terms of the quality of work and the management of this work, which is sometimes difficult, as is well known. Once again, on Thursday, January 26, the CSC denounced the labour standards imposed on bpost factors. The union also filed a strike notice "covering all actions of discontent throughout the company". The CSC, in particular, points to "humanly untenable" working conditions. And to add that within bpost, "distributors, replacements, sorters, drivers, tellers, managerial and administrative staff, cleaners and technicians suffer and suffer morally and/or physically from the consequences of current management". There are several areas of concern: too high a pace of work, inadequate equipment, lack of staff, accelerated retirement and lay-offs, extremely complicated business objectives and difficult-to-get leave. These working conditions of bpost employees have been in question for several years. In 2012, the company responded positively, setting up an internal investigation. According to bpost, this survey led to the conclusion that the company's employees are "attached to their work, but that a feeling of stress is being felt". An action plan called "bpeople" was then put in place to improve the working conditions of employees. A "bpeople" barometer had been announced and had to be created shortly. This leads me to ask you the following questions. First, what is the status of the discussions and negotiations between management and unions on last week's CSC denunciation and announcements? What concrete answers does bpost bring to all these problems and working conditions that seem increasingly difficult over the years? Following the findings of the study carried out within the framework of the "bpeople" project in 2012, has bpost undertaken any concrete actions? Is this study updated? And if not, are further staff satisfaction surveys planned? What are the results of the 2016 "bpeople" barometer for the latest and most accurate figures?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic580x.u38	Minister, my colleague has already outlined the problem. We saw the discontent of a number of employees. A mailman would only have 5,66 seconds to post a letter and only 21 seconds to deliver a package. An evaluation of 47 out of 200 standards and 95% of the standards dealt with would have already been adapted to give staff a little more time. If it's okay, it's okay to say the same thing. Social dialogue has enabled us to respond quickly to the issue, and that seems to me to be a good thing. Minister, can you explain the agreement between the management and the trade unions on the adaptation of standards? When will the next review of the other standards take place? How did the original timetable come about? What authority made the calculations? Will there be a complete departure from the seconds and minutes rule or will it be retained?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic580x.u39	The organisation of the distribution rounds is based on time standards, measurements of the volume of correspondence and environmental factors. The latter concerns the nature of the building, the nature of the economic activity, geography and traffic. Each act or part of the act to be carried out by a postman shall be granted a specified period of time. The sum total of all the operations, linked to the volume and the environmental factors, eventually composes a round in an objective way. The standards are based on objective and representative measurements and respect working methods and the most stringent safety standards. The time-by-activity measurement system has been developed since the late 1990s. The methodology used by most postal operators around the world has been monitored and validated by the University of Mons-Hainaut. It is based on objective and representative measures on the ground. It thus provides a guarantee that all distribution rounds are compiled in an objectively measurable and comparable manner, so that the work is distributed in a proportionate manner among the operators. The measures taken are then the subject of social consultation with the social partners and are adapted, if necessary, on the basis of the involvement and feedback of the factors and to take account of local specificities. Measures are never imposed indiscriminately, but rather an indication of how to organize work in a post office and ultimately ensure an equitable, objective and acceptable distribution of workload. During last week's Joint Committee, measures for staff were taken with the social partners. The company takes concrete measures for the well-being of the staff with, at the key, the commitment of about 150 new employees. In addition, a specific action plan is deployed within the company. It is organised around four concrete areas: recruitment, support and training of new employees, easier planning of leave and strengthening of workload control measures.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic580x.u40	Minister, I take note of your answer. But what about everything about the 2016 staff satisfaction barometer? It would have been interesting to have objective data on the level of employee satisfaction, the quality of employment within bpost. I don't know if you can provide this data. I was referring in particular to the "bpeople" barometer. I don't know if these are figures that can be used to objectiveize the problem. Otherwise, I want to say we stay a little in the incantation. There, the unions tell us one thing; you tell us another. On the ground, we feel that there are still difficulties. Denying them would not be responsible. What is important in this kind of debate is, of course, to be able to be objective. That's what I was asking. I will repeat a written question because more data is needed to be able to express myself in detail about the working conditions of employees within bpost.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic580x.u41	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. It is important that the work rhythm is based on objective standards. I therefore assume that the social partners will continue to follow this up in the context of the social dialogue, so that the absurdities that may have come to light are corrected.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic580x.u42	Minister, we were just discussing the quality of work at bpost, but I would also like to talk about the quality of service at bpost. It may indeed happen that the handwriting is difficult to read on letters sent and the letter is therefore sent back. That can happen, of course. However, this is a strange situation which you may also know. This concerns someone who sends a Dutch-language letter with a Dutch-language address in Brussels. Apparently, that letter is sorted by a non-existent street. The address was misread and the letter was sent to a non-existent street. The person concerned complains to bpost about this and the reaction of the customer advisor of bpost is that the sorters in the Brussels distribution office are predominantly French-speaking and that the sorters do not know all street names in the two country languages; hence the letter was sent to a non-existent street. That seems to me to be a very strange reaction from the customer advisor of bpost, something that should be impossible. I can understand, of course, that we do not demand bilingualism from every sorter and encoder. I understand that. However, it seems clear to me that the sorting centre and the distribution office should be functionally bilingual. If you get Dutch-language letters that a French-speaking person can't handle, you simply have to pass them on to a Dutch-speaking person. That seems to me to be the obvious thing, so a few questions for you. What procedures are provided for and what controls are used for this purpose? What are the conditions for encoders and sorters and what specific conditions are there for the Brussels distribution offices, where bilingualism is at least desirable or even necessary for a good service? What is the distribution by language role in these Brussels and bilingual distribution offices? I assume that lists of existing street names are used in the distribution offices and that only existing street names are sorted when sorting. That makes sense to me. If an address is difficult to read, it can be compared to existing street names. Is that how it happens? What training courses are given with regard to checking street names? Is there any use of knowledge of street names in Dutch and French? What initiatives are being taken to prevent such mistakes in the future and to increase the quality of the service in Brussels also for Dutch speakers?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic580x.u43	Mr President, the letter with a handwritten address was sorted by the Brussels sorting centre only by postcode, not by distribution round, because the sorting machine could not read the street name. As a result, the letter in the distribution office had to be sorted manually by round. Also the employees there could not read the street name clearly, which meant that the letter was returned with the indication: "unknown address'. In response to the complaint, the customer service of bpost stated that the employees in the mail centre are mainly French speaking. bpost is subject to language legislation and the company makes the necessary efforts. This means that spreaders working in bilingual municipalities must have knowledge of the Dutch and French national languages. This is also mentioned in the job description and then checked with the application. The street names of the Brussels municipalities were included in the company's sorting programme with a French and Dutch name. However, in a number of regions, including the Brussels-Capital Region, bpost encounters difficulties in recruiting staff who perfectly meet the job requirements. In order to ensure continuity of service, bpost may be obliged to employ employees who have a limited knowledge of Dutch. These workers, who in all other areas do meet the job requirements, should be encouraged to improve their language skills. For information, the distribution service in the municipalities of the Brussels-Capital Region and the Brussels Industrial Sorting Centre comprises a total of 2 239 staff, of which 558 are of the Dutch language role and 1 654 are of the French language role. About that letter in question, I saw a photo of the handwritten address. It is indeed a bit difficult to read. I can understand that a particular postman did not properly understand whether it was "Sint-Jans' or "Sint-Muis'.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic580x.u44	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your reply. As I said at the beginning of my question, I fully understand the fact that certain addresses are not easily readable. As far as that letter is concerned, I would have read "Sint-Mauslaan" as well, but everyone knows that this does not sound on any side. One has to be crazy enough to have a "Sint-Mauslaan" in a municipality. Doesn't it make sense to use a list of existing street names? If you want to put a letter in the box "Sint-Mauslaan', you first see if that street name exists and then you can compare it with other Saint-Lans. There aren't so many of them. I remember from your answer that bpost is difficult to recruit people with sufficient knowledge of French and Dutch. There is therefore a need for initiatives, such as additional Dutch courses for French speakers and vice versa. We have to bet on that. If, however, we do not succeed in making everyone there sufficiently bilingual, of course, if sufficient efforts are made, we must at least ensure that the service is bilingual. The minimum minimorum is that a service is functionally bilingual. I find it strange that there is no simple way to pass things on to Dutch speakers. I assume that will be done.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic580x.u45	bpost has decided to develop its package delivery modes based on the Uber model of the US giant. In fact, bpost recently invested in two start-ups: Parcify and brindgr. Parcify is an Antwerp start-up that has developed an application that allows a parcel to be delivered to the precise location where its recipient is located, thanks to geolocation. brindgr is a platform "à la Uber" which allows to put in contact traders with parcels to send and delivery agents. In this regard, Minister, what measures do you intend to put in place in the short and long term to prevent these applications from reducing the use of traditional factors?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic580x.u46	Indeed, we learned a few weeks ago that the Carrefour distribution group intended to set up a collaboration with the truncated platform launched by bpost a few months ago. This online delivery service belongs to bpost. Carrefour will thus offer customers the option of delivering their shopping at home via private individuals, the advantages being more flexibility and speed of delivery. Carrefour thus expands the offer of its delivery site drive.be. The brand is not content with existing services such as Combo. It does, however, allow this kind of delivery but via bpost employees, which is not, of course, the case for brindrel. We've already asked you about this. The test phase takes place in eight Carrefour markets and hypermarkets. The service will be offered for all orders starting from 30 euros and will be free for the first six months. I've already asked you a question about twig. The march from bpost to digitization is logical in the sector. It is proof of dynamism and innovation. But it must not be done at the expense of the paid jobs of the bpost workers. It is this balance that it is important to maintain. It is on this point that our question is focused. In addition, the CSC-Transcom also expressed the same concerns. She concludes: "This evolution of delivery is at the expense of internal staff at bpost. To what extent are the rest and driving times of private drivers respected? Which vehicles will be used?" These questions are quite relevant. So how can we ensure that bringr will not create unfair competition against bpost employees? Can you objective the first months of the brindgr service evaluation in terms of the number of delivery and parcel services existing within bpost by bpost employees? Are driving times and rest measures for private drivers considered for truncated driving? Is this type of collaboration between brindgr and a supermarket envisaged with other types of brands in the future? If so, can you provide examples of the cases considered?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic580x.u47	Nowadays online platforms such as Parcify and brindgr and others are booming. These are innovations that change our shopping and work habits. I understand that these, potentially destructive, are perceived as a threat to the traditional economy and to employment. This was also the case with the emergence of innovations such as the steam engine, the car and the computer. Prohibiting or going against these innovations has never been a good idea and it is still not. I am convinced that, like the car or the Internet, these digital innovations, as well as new initiatives emerging in the collaborative economy, can lead to more growth, jobs and prosperity. That is why I intend to fully support all innovations while guiding them. Recently, a new regime has been applied to the areas of the collaborative economy. Persons who provide services via an application or platform within certain income limits benefit from a reduced and simple tax rate of 10%. In practice, this rate applies to services between individuals provided that they are provided through a registered platform. This interactive system is intended to combat fraud and regularize activities that are often found in the grey zone. With regard to the collaboration between Carrefour and brindgr, this pilot project is part of Carrefour's strategy to provide its clients with more flexibility. After making your online purchases, the customer can choose between pick-up pick-up at one of the collection locations, home delivery at a fixed time if necessary and truncated. The advantage of the latter lies in its speed and flexibility. As soon as the order is registered, it is prepared in store. The delivery person who has accepted the race with truncated takes it off and goes at the agreed time to Carrefour's customer or to the designated place. As I have already explained on other occasions, brinchgr does not replace traditional networks. It will not lead to a reduction in jobs from traditional factors. As far as driving and rest time is concerned, brindgr is only a platform that connects both parts and does not transport itself. All other information concerning the pilot project is confidential.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic580x.u48	In the government, the main party wants the end of the entity to which this government belongs and the appropriate minister is a deputy prime minister who supports and encourages everything that will remove market shares from public enterprises. It's all right!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic580x.u49	Mr Minister, at a time when fundamental technological developments, whether steam or printing, have emerged, at the same time or just after, fortunately, major social advances in the conditions of workers have also been introduced. I think one can't go without the other. Do not neglect the legitimate fears about the social and environmental consequences of these technological developments! As far as we are concerned, we environmentalists do not want to reject them with a back of the hand, but to accompany them so that, precisely, it is not to the detriment of workers but on the contrary, whether they are opportunities to create jobs, quality jobs and sustainable jobs. So let's still be a little nuanced in our statements! It will be all the more interesting to have a constructive debate. You conclude that truncated today does not replace traditional jobs. I take note of your statements. Again, on the union side, the vision of things is different. Indeed, it will be necessary to evaluate truncated in a few months in an objective way to examine the activity of the more traditional bpost parcel service and truncated activity and to determine whether, at any time, there has been cannibalization of each other, the impact on employment and, in particular, in-house at bpost. That's the kind of exercise you're gonna have to do. Otherwise, we'll always stay in incantations. This is certainly not what bpost employees expect. Nor is it what this debate deserves that is fundamental and that we, as ecologists, really want to lead enthusiastically. We are enthusiastic about all these technological innovations, but, I repeat, this must not be done at the expense of the quality of employment, social conditions at work and environmental conditions. These are our beacons on which we will not compromise. The debate deserves better than incantations on both sides.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic580x.u50	Mr President, Minister, in the federal administrations, postal items represented a budget of more than €66 million in 2015. Projects are under way to reduce this significant cost, including the e-deposit, which has enabled the sending of exhibits electronically since 2015 and the e-box, which has enabled digital communication between judicial partners since 2016. Minister, what measures do you intend to put in place, in the short and long term, to reduce the costs of mail-outs in federal jurisdictions? Does the Digital Belgium Plan contain any measures to this effect?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic580x.u51	Mr Devin, in 2016, Parliament adopted the Digital Act, which together with the European eIDAS Regulation, constitutes the legal framework for the provision of recommended electronic mail services in Belgium. Currently, several companies have applied to the SPF Economy for registration as electronic recommended service providers. Pending the first authorisation, citizens and businesses can already avail themselves of unqualified services offered on the market. An e-box (e-mail box) with e-signature and e-delivery functionality is being developed. Public authorities can use it to send e-recommendations to citizens and businesses. When a registered e-mail message arrives in an e-mail box, citizens and businesses are informed by e-mail or SMS. We will examine how to use the e-box to facilitate private initiatives in the area of electronic recommended mailings. I think that if public authorities started sending more recommended electronic shipments, it would be better for citizens as well. Today, there is a lot of frustration among many citizens who sometimes have to take leave to pick up a recommended mail. Electronic sending would also increase the level of service available to our citizens.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic580x.u52	Minister, thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic580x.u53	Deputy Prime Minister, according to a report by the Belgian Institute for Postal Services and Telecommunications (IBPT), bpost did not comply with the 95 % priority mail rate distributed on time in 2015. However, this rate is imposed by its management contract. On average, only 92.4% of priority mail was delivered within the time frame. This is the worst bpost score in the last ten years. In this regard, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, can you give us the main reasons for this increase in delays in the distribution of priority bpost mail? What measures do you intend to take to improve the performance of this company in terms of mail distribution?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic580x.u54	Mr Devin, the main reasons for the delays in the distribution of mail by bpost in 2015 are as follows. First, several social actions, at the national or provincial level, have disrupted the work. Second, the commissioning of a new type of sorting machine has altered the level of quality expected in mail preparation activities. Thirdly, the gradual installation of the "Vision 2020" programme may temporarily affect the organisation of work. In addition to the usual bpost investments, an investment of €600,000 resulted in additional capacity in terms of internal and external transport of consignments to certain sorting centres. In addition, the e-mail centre teams have been strengthened. In conclusion, bpost is convinced that all these measures will contribute to improving the quality of distribution.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic580x.u55	Thank you, Deputy Prime Minister, for your answer, which does not require further comment.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic580x.u56	Minister, a European agreement has been reached to open the 700 MHz band to mobile services from mid-2020. Member States should make public their national plans for releasing that band by 30 June 2018, which is still a serious period. The cross-border coordination agreements should be concluded by the end of 2017, by the end of this year. In the sub-700 MHz band, digital television via the ether remains the primary user, although there is the possibility to fill in part of that spectrum flexibly. In the past, I have already asked questions about the Belgian position regarding the use of part of that band for networks of public safety, especially for public protection and disaster relief, known to us by the operator ASTRID, which provides the radio networks for police, fire and other emergency services. Apparently, at European level, no guaranteed allocation of a piece of that band has been made for such operators. That is why I have a few questions for you. Minister, what are your plans now that this agreement has been concluded effectively? Which cross-border coordination agreements do you want, should or plan to conclude? In what way will you proceed? What specific plans do you have in the sub-700 MHz band? How will you respond specifically to the demand for a partial allocation of that band for public safety networks?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic580x.u57	A draft Royal Decree on the award of the 700 MHz band is being prepared and a public consultation will start. The negotiations for the evacuation by broadcasters in this band were conducted internationally in the framework of the WEDDIP, a multilateral consultation body in which Belgium, the Netherlands, Luxembourg, France, Germany, Great Britain and Ireland participate. The BIPT led these negotiations in cooperation with representatives of the three Communities. On 29 April 2016, the WEDDIP Agreement was signed. This framework agreement is complemented by bilateral negotiations with detailed technical agreements on the characteristics of the broadcasters concerned. This agreement has already been reached with the Netherlands, Luxembourg, France and Great Britain. There are still some outstanding issues with Germany and negotiations will be finalized during this year. The band 470 to 692 MHz remains assigned to a broadcaster and will be used for DVB-T and wireless microphones. The BIPT will reserve the bands 698 to 703 and 753 to 758 MHz at national level for ASTRID. This spectrum will be used by ASTRID. Belgium also supports the allocation at European level of a band for public protection and disaster relief.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic580x.u58	Thank you, Minister, for the comprehensive answer and specifically for the positive response to public safety.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic580x.u59	Mr President, Minister, the BIPT Council was re-established in December 2016. Mr Van Bellinghen was appointed chairman, Mr Hamande, Mr Desmedt and Mr Vanfleteren were appointed council members. I am referring in writing to the return of Mr Van Bellinghen, who can be seen as a surprise. I also referred to a text by Mr Dedecker and the questions he asked in the previous legislature about Mr Van Bellinghen and the statute of the special contractor. The then custody minister always replied that this belonged to the autonomy of BIPT. Your friends of the N-VA, particularly Mr Dedecker, have accused us of protecting political appointments. It's been noted. Will the BIPT Council be given the necessary autonomy from the entire government and therefore from your N-VA coalition partner, given the criticism from the past? How did the final selection happen? After all, the procedure stated that they all had to come to the competent minister, who would then pass an opinion on the cookie to the government? Last year you spoke very critically about the previous BIPT Council. I now find that three of the four council members are returning. Have you been wrong in your criticism? Finally, what are the five priority areas in which the Council will work?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic580x.u60	Mr President, I would like to take the floor for a personal statement. Since my name is mentioned, I'd like to intervene. It is true that I have always denounced the creation of that function of "special contractor'. The previous minister, Mr Van Quickenborne, has always admitted that this was the compromise he needed to achieve the objectiveisation of the selection in his coalition. In the meantime, of course, we note that a procedure was followed on the basis of Selor's assessments. I would therefore like to ask the Minister what the differences were between Selor's recent assessments and the previous one of...
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic580x.u61	Mr Dedecker, you can't ask questions. You can only respond to Mr Geerts' remarks.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic580x.u62	I'm noticing that Selor was working. I find it odd that Mr Geerts should come forward with political appointments. In this respect, Mr Geerts is well placed in a party that does not hesitate to appoint without Selor head of the cabinet as CEO of public companies and here and there with regulators. I therefore believe that he is not well placed to criticise. However, I look forward to his support to abolishing the function of "special contractor', now that it is apparently no longer necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic580x.u63	Mr President, the first good news is that the position of special envoy has disappeared.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic580x.u64	Not yet in the law, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic580x.u65	. Not yet in the law, but already in office. The government has always respected the autonomy of the BIPT Council since it took office and has even strengthened its independence as a regulator. Among other things, through the law of 16 March 2015, the government's control of BIPT decisions was lifted. In other words, the government does not intend to intervene with an independent regulator. Can I also welcome the fact that you always take the autonomy of the BIPT Council to heart? In fact, I remember that in the context of the submission of the above-mentioned draft law in the Chamber, you were still in favour of maintaining political control over BIPT. The selection procedure followed is that laid down by Royal Decree and comparable to the selection procedure for mandate holders in federal administrations. Selor carried out a thorough evaluation of the candidates enrolled on the basis of practical tests and an oral interview with an independent jury. Many candidates were thus found by Selor to be suitable for the function of a member of the Board and two for the function of chairman of the Board. As required by the Royal Decree, I had an additional interview with each of the candidates found suitable and compared them with regard to their specific competences and relational and management skills, as determined in the job description and the competence profile of the job to be taken up. A report was drawn up on this subject. On this basis, I have put forward a proposal for appointment to the government. It was an interview; if they got coffee and cookies, I don't really remember. Selor has given me four candidates for three council members and two candidates for a council member who would be president. My criticism that the regulator should play faster on the ball was and is justified. In this respect, it is less important who returns or does not return, as you say, or that those who are appointed work on and provide an effective regulator. I would also like to point out that, in this context, a new chairman of the BIPT was appointed, who is responsible for ensuring an effective regulator that anticipates rapidly all developments taking place in the telecommunications and postal markets. It is up to the new BIPT Council to define the priority areas within the framework of the preparation of a strategic plan and a work plan. The BIPT lets me know that it identifies the following priorities for the 2017 work plan. Firstly, the auction of the 2G and 3G radio frequency bands and the new 700 MHz band. Secondly, the market analyses of broadband and broadcasting networks. Thirdly, the announcement of the new Easy Switch procedure that will start on 1 July 2017. Fourthly, the preparation of a new telecommunications crisis plan. Finally, finalise the preparation for the designation of one or more universal postal service providers.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic580x.u66	First of all, I should like to comment on what Mr Dedecker said. I can only quote on the basis of what I've read. In order for you to understand for sure, I'll say this: verba volant, scripta manent. I simply note that your party had that criticism and I have put it forward. Minister, you are talking about political control and independence. What I said in the hearings at the time was that Parliament should consider whether or not we are giving additional tasks in the context of telecoms legislation to monitor the telecom market, for example, or to take other initiatives. That's what I mean by political control. That's not so much control over who's being held back or not. The BIPT has an important role to play. We see this in the explanatory statement of his annual report in the Chamber. It must have the necessary autonomy to make the market transparent. In the future, we will certainly be happy to discuss his annual report and annual plans, especially with the BIPT.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic580x.u67	Thank you, Mr Geerts. Mr. Dedecker, no. You were able to respond to the allegations. Mr Geerts has the last word as the questioner. I propose that we conclude here.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic580x.u68	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic580x.u69	This is one way of keeping busy, of course. We're gonna keep it limited.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic580x.u70	Questions Nos 15305 by Mr Foret and 15348 by Mr Blanchart are converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic580x.u71	Mr Minister, at the beginning of January the Walloon-Brabant company Ipex announced that it would be possible to make the registered mail delivery possible in practice, although only for companies, not for individuals. Ipex entered into a strategic alliance with Aanteken bv, the market leader for registered mailing in the Netherlands. The cost per consignment would vary between 0.23 and 0.69 euro, depending on the number of shipments. At bpost, the cost of a domestic registered shipment is 5.29 euros today. I have the following questions for the Minister. How many companies are currently in the accreditation process? Will any company that meets the conditions be able to send electronically registered shipments or is there a restriction? What's the further timing? When will a registered shipment be able to leave electronically for the first time, both for companies and for individuals?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic580x.u72	As far as the number of companies is concerned, no formal requests from companies to obtain the status of qualified electronic registered delivery service have yet been submitted to the competent department of the FPS Economy. However, there are several companies that seek information from the competent department on how to obtain that status. The competent department of the FPS Economy tries to guide these companies as best as possible on their way to the status of qualification. In any event, they should go through a process whereby an independent accredited private body evaluates and certify the conformity of the services to the requirements of the eIDAS Regulation and the provisions of the Law of 21 July 2016. Only upon receipt of such an attestation of conformity may the company submit an application to obtain the status of qualified. At least we know that three companies are very interested in getting that status. Will any company that meets the conditions be able to send? Yes, any company that meets the conditions and submits an application may be included in the list of qualified electronic registered delivery services. As far as the number is concerned, no restrictions have been imposed. As for timing, our services do not immediately have a view of timing. The companies intending to provide a qualified service are currently going through the process of conformity assessment and the corresponding audits which must be completed positively before they can apply for the status of qualified service with the FPS Economy. We expect that the first Belgian companies will not be ready for this step until half of 2017. Indeed, the eIDAS Regulation, which has been in force since 1 July 2016, provides that the legal effect and admissibility as evidence in judicial proceedings of data transmitted and received via a electronic registered shipping service should not be denied merely on the grounds that the service is electronic or does not meet the requirements of a qualified electronic registered delivery service. Only qualified electronic delivery services shall enjoy the presumption of integrity of the data, of the transmission of the data, of the identified consignor and of the receipt thereof by the identified consignee. Moreover, as laid down in Belgian law, where a registered consignment is expressly or implicitly imposed in a legal or regulatory text, that obligation shall be deemed to have been fulfilled by using this service of qualified electronic registered consignment. Whether the electronic registered delivery services are offered to companies, individuals or both is a free choice of the company offering the services. These choices are often determined on the basis of commercial and technical reasons. Based on the information we have today, we assume that there are providers who intend to offer their services to both companies and individuals.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic580x.u73	Thank you, Minister, for your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic580x.u74	For the sake of completeness, I would add that the questions that were not asked in the merged questions and interplay lapse.
