ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-plenair-ip206x.u1	The meeting is open. The meeting was opened.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-plenair-ip206x.u2	Mr President, I wanted to speak on the order of business in relation to what is to be envisaged in plenary and what happened in committee. Many of our colleagues were on both committees last night. What happened was rarely seen! A majority party proposed a second reading itself without tabling an amendment! We hear everywhere that the government has negotiated a package as a whole and that it does not – until now – or is not – considering reviewing things. I would like to take advantage of the beginning of this sitting and the relatively calm moment in relation to what happened yesterday in committee to invite my colleagues from the majority, but also my colleagues in the government, to think carefully about the proposal that we have made to them. Mr President, you have convened a Conference of Presidents at 14.00 hours. This leaves us up to 14.00 hours to eventually reach an agreement. I think it is more than time for the majority to realize the situation in which they are in the process of locking up their own reforms. It's his responsibility, it's his choice! We made the necessary openings. For the past three weeks, we have been calling for the end of this session to be organised in the Conference of Presidents. I wanted to take advantage of this beginning of the session to make a final appeal and I hope it will be heard.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-plenair-ip206x.u3	As you said, the Conference of Presidents will meet at 2 p.m. There is also a meeting of the Parliamentary Committee for Consultation with the Senate at 1:30 p.m.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-plenair-ip206x.u4	Mr President, it is true that a Conference of Presidents is scheduled at 14 u 00. At the same time, some things must be said publicly, given what has happened in recent days, in recent weeks. Parliament has been unable to work seriously, given the time frame for dealing with particularly complex issues. The Council of State had to deliver an opinion within 30 days on a plan to relaunch more than 700 pages. The Council of State itself says that it did not have time to analyse this seriously. There was no social consultation on the EUR 500 part of the recovery project. Urgent hearings have shown a unanimous rejection of this bill by all organizations, employers, trade unions, self-employed, volunteers and volunteers. There has been no consultation with the Communities and Regions, although this affects their powers. In view of all these elements, you will understand that, as far as our group is concerned, we cannot register and we will not register in a kind of carpet bargaining where we would exchange one case with the other. Unfortunately, it is the whole recovery project that is inconclusive. We expect the majority and the government to make proposals for a reasonable timetable. But don't expect us to enter into bargaining logics. Let's be clear! The return of the EUR 500 in January is clearly the minimum. For the rest, if you have proposals to make, make them; and we will see whether we will consider, or not, that we will finally work in good conditions. It is high time that the parliamentary institution was respected. It does not have to be a hostage to your political difficulties, in which you have placed yourself. Mr President, I have a very specific request. Yesterday it appeared in the Social Affairs Committee that the Minister of Health had an opinion from the Parliament's legal services on the bill to relaunch, in its so-called social aspects. However, the members of the commission did not have one. This is unacceptable, and I expect you to give us a convincing explanation in the Conference of Presidents. Above all, I expect this opinion to be communicated to us as soon as possible. You will understand that this is particularly unbearable and, once again, indicates that there is more than contempt for the parliamentary institution. This goes beyond the limits of reasonableness.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-plenair-ip206x.u5	Mr Laaouej, on this last point, honestly, I must tell you that I do not know. I'll check it out. Of course, if a note comes from the legal services of the House, all members must be informed of it. This note should be distributed. I'll follow you. But the clerk just told me that there is no opinion of the legal services on this law. That is the official response of the House.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-plenair-ip206x.u6	Mr President, I would ask that we contact the secretariat of the Committee on Social Affairs so that we can inform you and the clerk correctly and that we know exactly what the minister had at her disposal. It was she who stated that she had an opinion from the Chamber's legal services. That must be clarified. If this happens again, it goes without saying that it is totally unacceptable!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-plenair-ip206x.u7	Maybe it's a misunderstanding. We'll check it out.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-plenair-ip206x.u8	Mr President, of course I agree with what my fellow Members have said, but I have another comment to make. Let us not forget that today, and perhaps tomorrow, we are discussing something that has been decided in the Summer Agreement. It is cynical and actually unacceptable that some members of the majority are now insinuating that the opposition is carrying out delaying manoeuvres. Again, it is an agreement that was concluded this summer. We are now at the end of the year, and the way this Parliament has to work is really scandalous. I don't have to repeat it. It's 1 400 pages. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of the two committees have worked for a long time, so I hope that you will take this into account, also in the Conference of Presidents, and that we can have a parliamentary debate such as that of a parliamentary democracy.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-plenair-ip206x.u9	We will discuss this later in the Conference of Presidents.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-plenair-ip206x.u10	Mr President, less than a week ago, last Thursday around 16.30 p.m., a pack of paper was brought in here. It was nicely bound, but that's the work of the services. However, there were substantive issues in which legal questions could be asked. I see here now, year after year, that we have to organise night-time committee meetings. It is impossible for a parliament to do such a good job. I hear Mr Laaouej asking that the government be constructive and I very much agree. What I most regret is the way in which some ministers are now ridiculing this Parliament in statements in the media. Mr Jambon calls on the opposition to shoulder its responsibilities. On the way to the Chamber I heard Mr De Croo declare that 30 and 31 December are working days as well. I would like to reply to the government, and in particular to Mr De Croo, that the months of July and August also have working days. If the Michel administration had worked in July and August, instead of playing the popular sharel on Tomorrowland and sending selfies, which actually made Tomorrowland look more like Rimpelrock, then there should have been no garbage laws here last Thursday, no garbage bin laws. So I think it really is very low of the government, very low indeed, to address Parliament and the Members of this House, of whom there are a lot of nights' meetings here in the Finance Committee and in the Social Affairs Committee. I would therefore like to call on the members of the government to show at least one appearance of respect for Parliament. I know they have no respect for Parliament, I am well aware of that, but I would ask them to keep up the appearance of respect, at least to pretend. For the rest, I think it would be very good to take back the laws of garbage, because this is not something we can agree on within the majority itself. Now there is even a majority party asking for a second reading of a text without tabling amendments. Let Mr De Croo work on 30 and 31 December, just like Mr Jambon and the rest of the government. Then come back to Parliament with legal texts and give Parliament time and opportunity to be Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-plenair-ip206x.u11	Mr President, I would like to refer to an additional fact which has not escaped you and which is rather disconcerting. Yesterday, in the Finance Committee, the draft law on the tax on securities accounts was in a position to be voted on. A representative of the majority, in this case of the MR group, requested a second reading. This informs us about the current state of mind of the majority. The opposition should not be criticized for asserting its rights to a democratic debate, conducted in good conditions and with respect for everyone, while the majority itself defers consideration of its own bills.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-plenair-ip206x.u12	I repeat that a Conference of Presidents will be held at 14 u 00.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-plenair-ip206x.u13	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to make the following remarks with the necessary caution after these serious, sound, procedural speeches. During the week before Christmas it is in Flanders the Flemings know that, the Walloon friends probably not the Warmest Week. During the Warmest Week, money is collected for a number of initiatives. This is how Jan Hautekiet started Radio 1 the action of the silly jar. I felt that no playing field other than Parliament would be ideally suited to do collections for that purpose. I have already seen Mr Vuye score with his two silly jokes by comparison with Rimpelrock. So I expect at least two euros from Mr Vuye in the pot. In the meantime, I realize that he will now invoke a personal fact, which in itself is a silly joke. That'll be three euros. With your approval, Mr President, I would like to propose that my group leader should have the faint jar. Together with him we can all judge each other in the field of lame jokes or puns. Perhaps it would be even better to raise money in any violation of the ban on repeating things, which might yield even more. But that too is a lame joke and I will put in 1 euro myself. I hope that all the groups, and certainly the Flemish ones, will be able to contribute to this. I will be accused of populism, but you know, Mr President, that I really do not want to be populist. The money goes to Too Crazy for emotional prosperity. Besides, for the real top guys among us, I've got ten-time cards. Ten euros, the eleventh is free. Mr. Van Biesen, I'll give you one. Mr President, I will also give you one gift. EUR 20 in the pot for Mr Van Biesen and for the President.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-plenair-ip206x.u14	Thank you, Mr Terwingen. I don't suppose anyone would object to your warm proposal. Then we can start our work. I have one more point to make and I am addressing the chairmen of the political groups. Yesterday we approved the addition of two drafts under the responsibility of Minister Ducarme: one with various provisions relating to agriculture and one with various provisions relating to the self-employed. For reasons of agenda, Minister Ducrame asked whether any groups wished to intervene on these projects unanimously adopted in committee. He'd like to know before the lunch break. I therefore ask the group leaders to inform me. In the meantime, Mr Laaouej, I have just received information about the alleged note from the Legal Service: this note does not exist. The note in question has been drafted, as is customary, by the committee secretary. It is purely legal.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-plenair-ip206x.u15	Mr President, whatever the form of the instrumentum, typed, handwritten or otherwise, this note exists. It was handed over to Minister De Block without being communicated to parliamentarians. That's not right! I am convinced that it was not the secretariat of the commission that handed it over to Minister De Block. It must be someone else. I guess who that might be. I'm neither Hercules Poirot nor Sherlock Holmes. However, I would like this matter to be referred to the Conference of Presidents.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-plenair-ip206x.u16	I would add that, since these notes are legistic, they are always communicated to the ministers so that they can take note of the comments they contain. It has been the practice to do so for years. We're used to it. But we can go back to the Conference of Presidents and, if you like, I agree that these notes should be distributed to all members of the committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-plenair-ip206x.u17	Of course, Mr President, we are not going to extend our exchange here. I am simply saying that if this note was given to the minister, then it should also – at a minimum – be communicated to the members of the commission.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-plenair-ip206x.u18	We shall return to this in the Conference of Presidents, but I see no problem in distributing this kind of note. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 14 December 2017, I propose that this afternoon's sitting start with point 9. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 14 December 2017, I propose that you start this afternoon's meeting with item 9. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 19 December 2017, I propose that you register on the agenda of today's plenary session: - the draft law amending the Law of 8 June 2006 regulating economic and individual activities involving arms, No. 2709/1 to 8; - the draft law laying down various provisions relating to agriculture and certain budgetary funds, 2829/1 to 3; - the draft law laying down various provisions on the social status of selfemployed persons, 2830/1 to 4. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 19 December 2017, I propose that you include in the agenda of today's plenary session: - the bill amending the Act of 8 June 2006 regulating economic and individual activities with weapons, Nos. 2709/1 to 8; - the bill on various provisions in the field of agriculture and certain budgetary funds, Nos. 2829/1 to 3; - the draft law on various provisions concerning the social status of self-employed persons, Nos. 2830/1 to 4. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-plenair-ip206x.u19	On 19 December 2017, the Court received a petition from 733 signatories entitled "No abolition of the peace process in Kraainem′′. On 19 December 2017, the Chamber received a petition from 733 signatories, entitled "No to the abolition of the peace justice of Kraainem". Pursuant to Rule 142 of the Rules of Procedure, this petition is submitted to the Chamber in order to be attached to the debate on the draft law on the reform of judicial cantons and amending the law of 15 June 1935 on the use of languages in court cases (Nos. 2695/1 to 10). In accordance with Rule 142 of the Rules of Procedure, the petition is tabled on the Bureau of the Chamber in order to be attached to the debate on the draft law on the reform of the judicial cantons and amending the Law of 15 June 1935 on the use of languages in judicial matters (Nos. 2695/1 to 10).
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-plenair-ip206x.u20	Proposals tabled by: Proposals submitted by: - 2000: Peter Vanvelthoven, Dirk Van der Maelen, Kristof Calvo, Benoît Dispa, Georges Gilkinet, Ahmed Laaouej - 2419: Roel Deseyn, Servais Verherstraeten - 2432: Peter Vanvelthoven, Ahmed Laaouej - 2525: Luk Van Biesen, Dirk Van Mechelen - 2535: Luk Van Biesen, Dirk Van Mechelen.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-plenair-ip206x.u21	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-plenair-ip206x.u22	Mr President, in agreement with my colleagues and in the spirit of Christmas, which seems to be presiding over this sitting, we have decided to refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-plenair-ip206x.u23	Mr President, I also refer to the written report, but I fear that we will not end the plenary session in the spirit of Christmas.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-plenair-ip206x.u24	One must continue to hope, Mrs Temmerman. The only speaker is Mr Gilkinet.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-plenair-ip206x.u25	Mr President, this programme law deserves intervention on at least three points. The first is the extension of flexi-jobs. The second is the changes to the Cayman tax and the third is the activation of savings. The first point is the extension of flexi-jobs in labour policy. The recurring finding is that the wrong job hunts the right one. Good employment is a job that gives workers favourable contractual conditions, a guaranteed wage, the ability to be an active citizen who settles in life. Poor employment is the one that does not offer medium- or long-term prospects, whose wages are not guaranteed, on which social contributions are not paid. As ecologists, in the face of all the employment measures that are taken or announced by this government, we want to repeat to you that we do not want a society with half-jobs, such a flexibilisation of work that it does not bring security of life to workers. We do not want a society where the norm is to have two jobs to get out of life, where pensioners have to work extra jobs, where there is competition between wage-earners with paid social contributions and workers under various statutes, where unfair competition with new systems towards self-employed and SMEs is organised. Nor do we want a society where social security is no longer financed, either through social contributions or through alternative financing. It can be seen that in terms of employment, the government uses the technique of "foot in the door" by proposing measures that may seem anodious or even positive. I am thinking of flexi-jobs in the horeca sector which, under certain conditions, can respond to particular seasonal circumstances, a surplus of activity which requires the call for additional labour. That's the starting point. It can be favourable or unfavourable, but I can share with the majority the observation of particular circumstances for the horeca sector. But when you decide to extend access to flexi-jobs not only to workers who have a 4/5-time contract but also to pensioners, and when you extend the sectors of activity beyond the horeca sector to that of distribution without any serious assessment and within the duration of the first measure which has just been put in place, then the partners are not really coordinated again and their views are taken into account and without having really measured the impact of the measure on the status of workers and the financing of social security. I am, of course, starting the debate that may still take place before 31 December – according to Minister De Croo, but probably in a more credible way at the beginning of 2018 – on the €500 exemption that would be granted to certain workers in direct competition with SMEs and the self-employed, which would jeopardize voluntary voluntary work. But this line of government, we contest, because it reaches the status of workers, offers them only half-jobs and endangers our social security. That is the first point in my speech. Secondly, the Minister of Finance: the corrections you make to the Cayman tax. Like other texts with interesting intentions put on the table by the government – transparency tax, Cayman tax – these are filled with imperfections, whether voluntary or not, but in any case distance us from the declared intentions of having the foreign capital holders contribute to the financing of the state. A whole series of exceptions are provided for in your texts, imperfect devices, endemic defects that we had stressed at the time of the adoption of your initial text. The system of fines that could be imposed on those who did not report their assets held abroad was too weak as to be truly dissuasive of non-reporting, in particular the inability to identify revenues related to the Cayman tax. Apart from the adoption of this tax, these shortcomings have been highlighted in the work of the Panama Papers commission, with this system of Russian dolls used by taxpayers who try to escape tax so that the final beneficiary of these devices cannot be identified. In response to these observations, you are proposing changes aimed at strengthening the system. Good on principle. The problem is that we move at small steps, millimetres per millimetre, whereas it is rather at large spans that we should fight this type of mechanism. There is a clear budgetary challenge behind tax evasion, given the tens of billions of euros that escape tax. There is also an equally obvious issue of tax justice: how to maintain our citizens' commitment to paying taxes if we accept that some people do not fulfil their obligations. The main element on which we have debated in committee, and on which we remain totally dissatisfied, is the need to identify the new revenue associated with this Cayman tax. If we cannot assess in budget tables, in the state accounts, possibly with the input of the Court of Auditors, the effectiveness of the measure and the fact that you are approaching the revenues you are aiming for, a parliament cannot do a serious job. It is for this reason that we have proposed – and I repeat the proposal here – that a separate declaration can be used for those with structures abroad. You replied in committee, minister, that this would make the tax return more complex. Let me say, in view of the brick that we are analysing in the Committee on Finance, that in terms of complexity, you have not expected us to make the tax system even less legible. On the other hand, I do not see how the creation of a specific declaration document for those affected by the Cayman tax – which would not be used by all others, the vast majority of our citizens – would be problematic. We believe that an effective public policy must be able to be measured and evaluated. Your systematic refusal to allow us, as much as you do, to identify the revenue of the Cayman tax, may suggest that you have something to hide about the ineffectiveness of the measure. If I'm wrong, give you the means to prove it, creating that transparency! We will applaud you if, tomorrow, we can measure the budgetary efficiency of the Cayman tax. The third point is the measure relating to the activation of savings. Again, on paper, ecologists share your observation. Belgians are great savers. Amounts that would be useful for investing in the real economy and creating jobs are sleeping on their savings accounts. But again, the path you have chosen to activate this savings poses a budgetary problem and a problem of income distribution. At the budgetary level, you are announcing a neutral measure from the point of view of revenue and expenditure. This is not credible, since you lower the threshold above which you have to pay a discount on savings account revenues. Given the rates of our savings books, the budgetary effect of these revenues will be zero. Indeed, it is now necessary to have very high amounts on its savings book to pay this discount, not to mention the ability to control. The new recipe will not be very far from zero. On the other hand, you incur a new expense by creating an exemption from share income, accompanied by a pre-payment free of charge. The same difficulty of control as that which will be related to savings books today will manifest itself on the occasion of this new liberality. The Court of Auditors has pointed out this, like others, in your budget. There is a risk of fiscal adventure at a time when, on the contrary, there is a need to ensure a better contribution of capital income. This is also problematic in terms of income redistribution. In the context of the budget debate, I heard my colleague Dedecker explain that this was really a measure to support the little saver who would put his savings into action. Frankly, we do not live in the same world! So much the better for those who have the means to consider such investments and so much the better if such an initiative can support our economy, but they certainly do not need this boost that will not promote a better distribution of wealth, which is increasingly problematic in our country – which contradicts the objective of social cohesion and expectation of the proper functioning of society, including in economic terms. With a view to activating savings and supporting the real economy, we really favour measures that oblige banking operators as well as insurance companies – in particular life and pension insurance – to play their part more effectively in transforming savings into investments. In committee, you replied – and I will end with that – that you did not believe in an over-regulated model, which would over-direct the actions of these financial operators. I have replied – and this is my deep conviction – that the lack of regulation and guidance has led us, on the contrary, to enormous budgetary catastrophes. I'm thinking about the financial crisis that hit Fortis, Dexia and Ethias. We therefore expect the public authorities to be more demanding of these actors, so that they avoid embarking on costly adventures not only for them, but above all for society as a whole, and that they play a more virtuous role in supporting the economy instead of losing themselves in financial follies as we have known them and as we are once again witnessing in financial markets. In short, the measures you are proposing are certainly not helping to achieve this objective. That is why we will not be able to support them. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-plenair-ip206x.u26	Mr. Speaker, there would be a lot to say about this program bill, but we are not going to make things go on. On the Cayman tax, Minister, we do not understand your refusal to finally be able to clarify your so-called transparency tax. I want to tell you: nothing is more obscure than your transparency tax. Budget performance cannot be measured in the absence of separate reporting codes. With my opposition colleagues, it must certainly be the fiftieth time that you are asked to do so, and, as the other said, between the disadvantage of repeating oneself and not being heard, there is no need to be swayed, it is better to repeat one another. So we will continue to ask you. Why? Because we're talking about an expected return on your 500 million euro leader. Half a billion! It's not nothing. I think it might not be as zealous to repeat oneself and ask you at all times whether we were talking about EUR 5 or 10 million. But we're talking about 500 million euros here. You decline that. This is totally unacceptable. Mr Minister, there is, however, something that you and the majority as a whole need to understand, namely that we must now stop stamping households with taxes on consumption. You are still coming with, from now on, a tax on lemonades that will hit families outside of any preventive consideration. And that is the hypocrisy of your speech! Your goal is, once again, to pick up from households' pockets by asking them to pay taxes on their lemonades. It is not like that, minister, that you will restore tax justice! It is not by going to the household pocket to look for their consumption that you will get away with it at the budgetary level. Your problem is that you give gifts to the employers, that you do not put sufficient resources in the fight against the big tax fraud, that you do not take enough of the big speculators. That's why you end up with budget gaps. That's the problem. Stop taking in the household pocket! You do not have to impose an additional tax on them, especially this scandalous tax on lemonade. This is unacceptable!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-plenair-ip206x.u27	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, good morning to all of you. It was a short night. The Programme Act should contain all the measures that the budget will implement. However, this programme law consists of a limited number of articles, which only implement part of the budget. It is also very striking that the budget is being converted into many different drafts. We are used to the fact that the law on various provisions still contains a lot of things. We come to the conclusion that we now have four. All the designs, all the legal texts are scattered across many different designs. We are looking at the implementation of the budget through the programme law. An important part of this is the cayman tax. We have always said of the caiman tax that it is an evolutionary burden, which we will have to constantly monitor, and we will have to keep checking again and again whether there are any new escape routes that require us to make new adjustments. The fact that the caiman tax is being adjusted seems to me to be a logical consequence of the tax, as it is. Anyway, with the programme law alone, we will of course not implement our budget. There is still a separate design for the securities tax and yesterday we discussed a bill on the relay with a lot of parts. For me, it's the first time the government's work has been so messed up. The measures are so scattered across so many different designs that a cat can't find her boy in them anymore. For example, the draft law on relance, which was discussed yesterday, contains references to references to be made in the programme law, which is now before us. Given the state of play today and since it is not at all certain that the relay plan will be published in the Belgian Official Journal before 31 December, some of the articles of law, which we discussed yesterday and which amend the programme law on which we are to vote today, will probably not be implemented either. I am thinking here of the adjustment of excise duties, which will apply not on 1 January but only from 3 January. If the draft law that we discussed yesterday gets a second reading and is therefore not adopted by 31 December, this means that your programme law will have to be implemented, as it is before us today, and that a whole series of amendments to your bill on relance will not be implemented. I would like to draw your attention to that. By spreading texts on so many draft laws, you have made it very difficult for yourself and for us. There was no logic in yesterday's bill. It was anything but easy to understand and study that bill at all. I must say that the whole story, with today's programme law and a change to that programme law in the relay plan, which will not be implemented unless it appears in the Belgian Official Journal by 31 December, does not please me. I have just heard that there is a conflict of interest against your draft law. Then the whole bill will be suspended for three months. So, Minister, you must consider very carefully whether you need to make changes to the programme law as a matter of urgency, perhaps à la minute. After all, the bill on relance contains things that are very urgent. The government's been doing a hell of a job over the past few weeks, hasn't it? I have to put that pronunciation in brackets. It's supposed to be a center-right government that's there for the companies. What she's done over the past week makes me conclude that love is obviously over. Look, for example, at the proposed Energy Pact. Without any certainty that the price of electricity will not rise, the government actually transfers the bill to the entrepreneurs. There was also a lot of work to be done about the unpaid additional income of EUR 500 per month, which the entrepreneurs and the self-employed also did not agree to. Moreover, because the government wants to keep all the plans together, the reform of corporate tax, which was so urgent for entrepreneurs, will now be postponed. You've made a serious soup out of it. I wish you every success in getting everything done by 31 December, but I would ask you, Minister, to consider whether certain measures need to be added urgently today.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-plenair-ip206x.u28	Mr President, I do not want to go back to everything that has been said in committee. I would just like to draw your attention to two legislative proposals tabled by Mr Van Mechelen and myself, which have been added to the present draft programme law. In the first text, we propose that the amount of withholding tax on dividends for recognised cooperative companies be increased to EUR 190. The changing situation whereby a large part of the savings invested in shares can today be exempted from withholding tax on dividends means that the exemption will be increased from EUR 190 to EUR 627. According to the latest winter agreement, the exemption will even be increased to EUR 800 in the following years. Our bill facilitates the participation of the common man in shares of cooperative companies. These are mainly cooperative companies in the energy sector, where this method of fund-raising for the production of alternative energy has a very large impact. We are pleased that our proposal was incorporated into the Programme Act. A second bill, which was also included in the programme law, is the proposal to extend the viewing tax to income from actual associations. There's a lot to do around there. Actual associations are a very broad concept. We have proposed that this extension be made for the actual associations, but in the media the emphasis has been on the trade unions rather quickly. Now that we are talking about it, the protesters who arrived on the streets yesterday on behalf of these trade unions, I am sure they would like to know how much money they have parked abroad, so that they are not taxed in any way in our country today. I believe that the introduction of a viewing tax on actual associations is very useful. I would also like to call on all the actual associations to ensure the necessary transparency. For some of them, it is an important contribution to solving a very old problem in the Chamber, namely the ARCO dossier. It would be very interesting if the trade unions could finally tell us how much resources they can make available. We could tackle the problem if we knew what their assets were abroad. The proposed legislation makes it possible to get a look at this. I call on them to make their report as correct as possible so that we can finally find out how we can solve that old problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-plenair-ip206x.u29	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this programme law obviously has several aspects. In the area of health care, a drug project provides for a savings of 38 million for health insurance. This money should, apparently, be reinvested in the reimbursement of innovative medicines. This amount is obviously not negligible, but it is little in relation to what could have been saved to reinvest in health care, the aim being not to be austerity. If we had applied the kiwi model to only a hundred drugs, we could have saved 632 million. This opportunity has been missed several times. Indeed, the PTB has long defended this model, which was debated in the House even before the PTB was represented. But he suffered acts of sabotage, especially at the time of the Open Vld, party of the Minister of Health, Mrs Maggie De Block. Take the example of Pantoprazole antacid, which is one of the most widely used medicines in Belgium. Applying the kiwi model to this medicine could save 50 million. It should be noted that in our country, for the pharmacist, the purchase price of a box of this medicine is 16.75 euros whereas in the Netherlands it will only be 1.76 euros. How can such a difference be explained? Every time the issue of the kiwi model is addressed, the Minister of Health refers to old stories by repeating that at one time Rudy Demotte had tried to apply such a model and that it had not worked. I will not go into detail about the origin of this story, but it must be known that it was a kiwi light model. But even this model was torpedoed by the Open Vld group with the support of the pharmaceutical industry. At the time, Mrs. De Block was already at the manoeuvring. Another component is flexi-jobs. Flexi-jobs are a way of precarising the labour market. We have already denounced it at the beginning, when the measure was introduced. In this case, flexi-jobs are extended without taking into account the negative impact. As a result, one million pensioners will have the opportunity to work flexibly in the labour market. They will therefore be put in competition with active workers, often low-skilled people who are already struggling to find a job. We are in a system where the government attacks the pension by constantly revising it downwards. Belgium is the country where the pension is lowest in Europe and these pensioners, who may benefit from even lower pensions in the future, are forced to supplement their earnings on the labour market by competing with the active workers, which will certainly create a downward spiral, which will further reduce the future pensions of these workers, especially in a point-based pension system. Therefore, it is an infernal spiral that is set up by the government. In addition, jobseekers who were employed at 4/5 times may subsequently work in flexi-jobs. Indeed, the government always tells us that these flexi-jobs are intended for 4/5 times. This is a complement to a person who already has a job. In reality, there is a possible time lag. For example, a person who has worked at 4/5 times for a period may, six or nine months later, work in flexi-jobs, even if he or she no longer has this work at 4/5 times that he or she previously occupied, i.e. an unemployed person who occupies flexi-jobs. And this is just one of many measures in this government's strategy of precarization of the labour market. I will not go back to the 500 euros that have been defied per month, which are a lot of ink and which are even rejected by employers' associations, representing SMEs and even the FEB. With regard to the activation of savings, this measure will first harm small savers, who will have a smaller amount of defied savings. It is true that for the time being, in view of interest rates, this does not represent much, but if rates go up, it will obviously be more important for these savers. But above all, what is the government's message with this measure? It is clear that venture capital is being encouraged as if no lessons had been learned from the 2007-2008 financial crisis. We still remember, I hope, that the shareholders of Fortis were 500,000 - they were also said to have been wronged in the near bankruptcy of this bank. Finally, the state had to come to the rescue of Fortis. This has cost and continues to cost taxpayers very much through the debt of the state. And it happens that the state hastened back at the time to surrender Fortis to a large French private group, BNP Paribas, which applies the same policy, first of all ethically questionable, but also dangerous in terms of the risks taken by the banks. Finally, there is a government that pursues a policy of privatization of what remains as public financial assets in that country. It does, however, have a lever that it could use to force banks to use savings money to invest in the real economy; but it does so by privatizing and reselling its assets in the banking sector. It's pretty amazing! Why are people ultimately being pushed to invest in venture capital when it is normally the role of banks? It is their role to use savers' money to invest in the real economy; if banks don't do it properly or not, just use the levers available to force banks to pursue a policy that is more respectful of our economy. No, I don't! We prefer to let banks look for their profit as they want, and on the other hand we put savers at risk by encouraging them to invest in venture capital. On the Cayman tax, I am not going to repeat what my colleagues and I have already said many times about the unknown performance of this tax. Finally, this can be explained quite simply. If the government does not dare to say how much the Cayman tax pays, it is because it does nothing against the great tax fraud or even advocates for the defence of the great fraudsters. When faced with this reality, he hides behind the Cayman tax. The Cayman tax is the only emblem it can claim in the fight against tax evasion. We must not therefore discover the reality of this fraud by revealing the amount, which is certainly ridiculous in relation to the amount of 500 million budgeted, which is constantly increased, since every fiscal year the government adds to the yield of the Cayman tax.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-plenair-ip206x.u30	Mr President, this programme law is a tote law. By definition, we find a little bit of everything, including, I would like to say, elements which are not uninteresting, and which are even rather positive. In particular, I welcome the proposed measures concerning the participation and involvement of workers. In the area of tax procedure, there are changes which are not fundamental, but which are in the right direction, in so far as they will, in particular, make it possible to modernise the collection procedures or extend the investigation periods which the tax administration may have at its disposal. It is also important to welcome elements that are correcting earlier texts. I am thinking of the exchange transaction tax, whose return will be increased by $50 million as a result of the proposed amendment. On the Cayman tax, what is proposed also seems to me interesting and positive. These are changes that go in the right direction, but which correct a situation that remains largely problematic, since the progress makes it possible to earn only 50 million, compared to a potential amount that remains unknown, given all the shortcomings that my colleagues have just detailed. Some aspects of the programme law could be approved by a vote. Unfortunately, as they are drowned in a comprehensive text which also contains unbudgetable proposals, the final vote will necessarily have to be negative. Among them, I will note, like my colleagues, this soda tax, which strikes consumers of lemonade for a budgetary return unfortunately lacking any prospect of public health. I also denounce the management of flexi-jobs, which leads to a weakening of the rational organisation of the labour market. In a tote law, we find a lot of things, but we have learned today that it is even possible to insert unforeseen projects, since Mr. Van Biesen managed during his speech to mention a dossier which is not at all present in the programme law – namely, the ARCO file. Since he talked about it, I would like to take this opportunity to question the minister on this matter. So far, we have been told that this is no longer really the business of the government or the parliament. But, as long as Mr. Van Biesen has just slipped this banana skin, and I would like to raise it by inviting the minister to take stock of this issue. It is also an opportunity for me to point out that, obviously, elbows are lost between partners of the majority – even if they are not lost for everyone. If you can answer me about this, minister, we will have at least made progress.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-plenair-ip206x.u31	Mr President, I will follow on from what Mr President has just said. Dispa and Van Biesen on the ARCO file. I had clearly identified in the program law the government's willingness to also target, through the Cayman tax, de facto associations. I had detected an intention to strike foreign capital held by trade unions. No one should escape tax, whatever its origin, its form of organization and the causes it defends. On the other hand, the explicit report with the ARCO file was never drawn up in committee before Mr. Van Biesen, whom I wonder to what extent they do not contradict the Prime Minister's repeated commitments – I suppose, at the request of the CD&V – to find a solution. After yesterday's day, after the acts of disloyalty and crooking between members of the majority, I am no longer surprised at anything except the silence of the CD&V colleagues on the subject. They probably prefer to handle the case behind the scenes. I would like to ask the Minister of Finance explicitly: what is the link between the Cayman tax amendment and the ARCO file? Join me, Mr. President. Van Biesen in his analysis and ambitions? On the other hand, what is the status of the resolution of this case? How will the government deliver on its commitments to the CD&V partner who has already purchased a solution in this case on several occasions, paid several times for something that is not being achieved. They should be worried about that. What solution will you find for the co-operators concerned and within what time frame?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-plenair-ip206x.u32	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to refer to the answers I have given in committee. I shall, however, touch on a few points. With regard to flexi-jobs, I stress once again that this is not a kind of "mini-jobs" as in Germany. This is a complementary job for those who already have a job. It is true that the system has been expanded as a result of its success in the horeca sector, with both employers and employees. 28 000 flexi-jobs have been created and it is clear to us that the flexibility inherent in this type of jobs is also necessary in other sectors of the economy. It is on the basis of this fact that we have taken this decision. As far as the Cayman tax is concerned, the government and I have said from the beginning that it would be a learning process: improvement will take place over time. That is why we have introduced the changes and enlargements in this bill today. As far as revenue is concerned, I repeat what I have already said several times. The Cayman tax brings money to the State through various categories of revenue: personal tax, direct taxes, etc., but this remains difficult to define. In addition, it has just been discovered that many people leave their tax buildings, mainly because of two factors. The first is the existence of a mechanism such as the Cayman tax. The second is international cooperation, which is improving from day to day. With regard to the activation of savings, I can only note that the government and some of the interlocutors who spoke this morning have a different philosophy. We really believe that this measure produces results at the level of the real economy. The economic philosophy we have regarding the role of savings, that of financial institutions, the investment process and job creation is somewhat different from, for example, the philosophy of MM. Gilkinet et Van Hees. We just attacked the soda tax because it would represent an attack on people's purchasing power. There is a need to be nuanced on this point. Indeed, to the extent that this soda tax would lead to an increase in prices, and only to this extent could one speak of a reduction in purchasing power. At the same time, however, this price increase will be included in the consumer price index. Through indexing, an upward adjustment of purchasing power will take place. This type of reasoning must therefore be truly nuanced. I finally come to ARCO. I confirm that the ARCO file is on the government table. Everyone knows it's a delicate case. So I will not dwell on this point.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-plenair-ip206x.u33	Mr President, Minister, I would just like to speak on one point. You said flexi-jobs could not be compared to Germany's mini-jobs because they are complementary jobs. What you're saying is not correct. Indeed, it is not just a question of complementary jobs. It does take four-fifths of the time for nine months to be able to exercise flexi-job. But once a person exercises flexi-job, he or she must no longer have a job. We can therefore be unemployed and be entitled to flexi-job. In this case, additional work is no longer involved. This is one of the dangers of flexi-jobs. In doing so, what you said, minister, is a counter-truth of what is in the bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-plenair-ip206x.u34	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-plenair-ip206x.u35	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committees is the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2746/18) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committees serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2746/18) The draft law has 159 articles. The bill has 159 articles. ******
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-plenair-ip206x.u36	*** Ladies and gentlemen, as has just been agreed, we are now discussing the two drafts which fall within the competence of Minister Ducarme.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-plenair-ip206x.u37	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-plenair-ip206x.u38	Mr President, given the quality of the minister's intervention in committee and the debates that have taken place, I refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-plenair-ip206x.u39	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-plenair-ip206x.u40	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2829/3) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2829/3) The draft law contains 17 articles and annexes. The bill has 17 articles, as well as annexes. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-plenair-ip206x.u41	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-plenair-ip206x.u42	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Mrs Nele Lijnen, rapporteur, referred to her written report. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-plenair-ip206x.u43	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2830/4) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2830/4) The draft law contains 7 articles. The bill has 7 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-plenair-ip206x.u44	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-plenair-ip206x.u45	Proposals tabled by: Proposals submitted by: - 22: Veerle Wouters, Daphne Dumery - 2506: Roel Deseyn, Franky Demon, Stefaan Vercamer, Servais Verherstraeten.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-plenair-ip206x.u46	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Mr Benoît Piedboeuf, rapporteur, referred to his written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-plenair-ip206x.u47	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I am very pleased that the law on various tax provisions III finally provides a solution to the tax discrimination of frontier workers after many years. That problem has been dragging on for years, much earlier than 2010, when I first came to the hemisphere with a legislative proposal on the subject. Today we are almost 2018, almost eight years later. The dossier has thus come a very long way and the European Court of Justice, the Constitutional Court and the Court of Appeal in Antwerp have ruled on this. I am very pleased that a solution has finally been found. However, I regret in the whole story that the issue will not be resolved until 2018. For the 2017 tax year, the administration applies a circular. The new scheme will therefore not apply retroactively, but only from 1 January 2018. In any case, the new legal provisions will mean that thousands of frontier workers in our country will no longer be discriminated against if they have children. This discrimination mainly existed between married and non-married persons and their dependent children. One category had the choice of who charged the children. For married people, that standard was the one with the highest income. As a result, many frontier workers have missed thousands of euros in the past. It is a pity that the scheme does not apply retroactively. I understand that, because if the situation were to be fully corrected, it would be virtually priceless. I regret that it has taken so long, but in the end there is a light at the end of the tunnel and I am very happy that my bill will be implemented after eight years.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-plenair-ip206x.u48	I don't think this needs a reply from the government. Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-plenair-ip206x.u49	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2791/3) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2791-3) The draft law has 14 articles. The bill has 14 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-plenair-ip206x.u50	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-plenair-ip206x.u51	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Mr Benoît Piedboeuf, rapporteur, referred to the written report. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-plenair-ip206x.u52	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2792/4) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2792/04) The draft law has 31 articles. The bill has 31 clauses. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-plenair-ip206x.u53	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-plenair-ip206x.u54	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Mr Stéphane Crusnière, rapporteur, referred to the written report. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-plenair-ip206x.u55	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2759/1) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2759/1) The draft law has 3 articles. The bill has three articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-plenair-ip206x.u56	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-plenair-ip206x.u57	Without report Not related
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-plenair-ip206x.u58	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-plenair-ip206x.u59	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2760/3) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2760/3) The draft law contains 5 articles. The bill has five articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-plenair-ip206x.u60	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-plenair-ip206x.u61	Without report Not related
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-plenair-ip206x.u62	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-plenair-ip206x.u63	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2761/3) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2761/3) The draft law contains 5 articles. The bill has five articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-plenair-ip206x.u64	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-plenair-ip206x.u65	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Mr Jean-Jacques Flahaux, rapporteur, referred to the written report. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-plenair-ip206x.u66	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2793/1) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2793/1) The draft law has two articles. The bill has two articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-plenair-ip206x.u67	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-plenair-ip206x.u68	The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2840/1). The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2840/1). The meeting's open. The discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-plenair-ip206x.u69	Mr President, not wishing to break your pace of work, I refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-plenair-ip206x.u70	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The meeting's over. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-plenair-ip206x.u71	The vote on the CREG budget for 2018 will take place later. The vote on the 2018 budget of CREG will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-plenair-ip206x.u72	Colleagues, we agreed at the Conference of Presidents that we would deal with the draft law establishing the military quota for the year 2018 at 2 p.m. However, if no one objects, we will deal with it now. Normally there are no explanations about that, that's the tradition. With your permission, I'm putting it on the agenda now. [[Assent]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-plenair-ip206x.u73	Without report Not related
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-plenair-ip206x.u74	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-plenair-ip206x.u75	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2820/1) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2820/1) The draft law has 3 articles. The bill has three articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-plenair-ip206x.u76	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the whole will take place tomorrow. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place tomorrow. The meeting is adjourned. The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-plenair-ip206x.u77	The sitting has resumed. The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-plenair-ip206x.u78	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteurs, Mrs De Wit and Mrs Özen, refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-plenair-ip206x.u79	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this bill is a major reform of the justice system and the judicial cantons. This is the legislative outcome of several phases, the first of which started in 2015. First, the triple and double seats were gathered in each canton. Then the transplants were centralized. Finally, the redistribution of the cantons in phase 3 has led to the abolition of certain cantons and justices of the peace. This is a major but not transparent reform. At the end of the hearings, we asked, together with our colleagues in Ecolo-Groen, for the transmission of documents allowing you to justify the abolition of certain justices of peace. We only obtained a brief overview of the method of work used. Thus, the democratic legitimacy of this assembly has been stolen from it, since it was unable to debate it knowingly, after a thorough examination of their merits. It is impossible to know why such or such justice of peace has been abolished and not another. However, you have told us, Minister, that the workload test has been preferred. This is not surprising since the criterion of accessibility in public transport has been neglected. While the justice of the peace is the very figure of the judge close to the citizen, in particular by the disputes that he is required to decide, you significantly increase the distances that the citizen must travel. It is the least favoured people who will pay the bill; those who are not lucky enough to have a car and for whom the time spent on public transport will sometimes be very long. The competence of justice of peace concerns persons with disabilities, including the mentally ill, for example. Thus, the abolition of the justice of peace in Tubize requires the inhabitants of Rebecq to go to Nivelles – a three-hour round-trip by public transport if everything goes well, because we are experiencing mobility problems. The same applies to the province of Luxembourg, where 60% of the hearing places have been abolished. We're going from fifteen to five. It's not nothing. The resident of Saint-Vith will now have to travel 60 kilometres to reach Eupen's justice of peace. The resident of Vielsalm, in the province of Luxembourg, will have to travel fifty kilometers to reach the justice of peace of Bastogne, that is more than one hour by car, while the resident of Merbes-le-Château in the Hainaut will now take a minimum of three hours by public transport to travel the forty kilometers that separate him from Chimay. The same goes for the resident of Gedinne, in the province of Namur, who will have to travel forty kilometers to reach Dinant.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-plenair-ip206x.u80	Mr President, I hear about the province of Luxembourg, even though I was a little distracted. Of course, I'm interested in her. Much has indeed been said about the province of Luxembourg. However, there was consultation with professionals, justices of the peace and their representatives, and agreement was reached on such representation, on a judgment such as this one. At the time of the negotiations, however, compensation had been requested for the holding in the province of Luxembourg, in Neufchâteau, of a seat of the Court of Appeal, if any, so that the people of the province of Luxembourg should not go to Liège simply to hear that the sitting was postponed. There seemed to be an agreement in principle on this subject, even if the magistrates of Liège were reluctant. The least we can do, from the moment we accept a territorial redefinition, is that there is this compensation. There are indeed distances to travel, but it is less wrong because we do not go to justice for peace very often. I've just been there for my commune, but I haven't been there for at least 20 years. However, if we have compensation of this nature, however, we accept it augury. Thank you, Mrs Özen, for bothering you about the province of Luxembourg.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-plenair-ip206x.u81	Mr Piedboeuf, thank you for your reflection. I am obviously worried about the resident of the province of Luxembourg. As we know, at the outset, these justices of peace were created for provinces where the distance to travel is much longer. I don't think you're very interested in my answer. It's okay. I guess Mr. Calvo was a lot more... Historically, justices of peace have been created to ensure that people who have undergone rather complicated territorial redistributions do not travel miles and kilometres to require a judge to decide disputes arising in their daily lives. Even if you set various conditions, it did not appear from the hearings in committee that a safe and certain alternative existed. I, for my part, defend a general point of view. For some provinces, the redistribution of public transport lines has not been sufficiently taken into account. That is why, unfortunately, the inhabitants of the province of Luxembourg will have to travel more kilometres in order to reach the justice of peace. As you may have heard, I have given you many other problematic examples. It may also be an opportunity to address the concept of justice under the tree, i.e. the hearings held in the communes. I am going to do a pedagogy for my colleagues. This concept refers to a kind of transhumance of justice of peace, which would go within the municipal administrations itself to settle disputes. This is an argument systematically taken from the minister's hat when dealing with the issue of proximity to justice. However, we are well aware that the loss will not be compensated by the reform in question – for several reasons. First of all, the Registry is the first door to justice of the peace. But he will not be present at the hearing place under the tree. Next, no one seems to be convinced of the need for such a transhumance. How will it be organized practically? It will then be necessary to move the files and install the magistrates in not always adapted rooms. However, the Minister of Justice will have to agree to hold these deconcentrated hearings, since the request will have to be addressed directly to the Minister. It will therefore be able to reject it, for example on the grounds that there is a lack of budgetary appropriations. That is the argument that you made recently, Minister, in response to the wish of the Montoise courts to obtain a defibrillator. Then, icing on the cake, assuming that one can finally organize this justice under the tree, a large part of its financing will be borne by the municipalities. Hence the underlying question: what commons will they be able to afford? The most prosperous ones, of course, since those with a more affluent population or those with suitable premises to accommodate this justice under the tree will be able to organize it, while the less affluent municipalities or those with no premises will not be able to organize it. There will be differences in treatment between the less affluent or smaller communes. It should also be noted that the service rendered to the citizen will be reduced to a minimum since the project removes 25 cantons. The number of justices for the peace is therefore down by 13%, while the number of cases, ladies and gentlemen, will not decrease. This reshaping will entail a lack of fluidity and speed in the processing of the files of litigants. At the hearings, it was estimated that for the whole of Walloon Brabant and Luxembourg, the reform would involve an increase of approximately 35% per canton. Our committee should, at the start of the year, discuss a draft law, one of which aims to double the minimum level of competence which would increase from €2,500 to €5,000. As a result, a considerable number of cases will fall within the jurisdiction of the justice of the peace. Today, justices of the peace are overburdened and, tomorrow, in certain cantons such as Liège or Nivelles, they will simply be suffocated. How will this be achieved with the reform announced at the start of the year? So injustice, inequity, but what about efficiency? You can't say that success is really on the table. Thus, we will see magistrates travelling longer distances to reach their jurisdiction. The reform will generate additional displacements for both litigants and magistrates. In addition, the time spent on roads may not be devoted to the examination of their files or other tasks. As a result, they will either have less involvement in these other tasks, or they will have to make choices in their travels. This reform represents an additional cost in terms of access to justice. Should we recall the reduction in the remedies available to litigants through the various bribes, the introduction of a moderator's ticket and the increase in registry fees, fortunately overturned by the Constitutional Court? It is difficult, therefore, to continue to claim to contribute to the establishment of quality justice for all citizens, especially the poorest. This reform actually reflects a political will to outsource, which will inevitably result in discouragement of recourse to the judge. Rather than giving the necessary means to justice, any form of distance that separates the defendant from the judge is increased – in this case, mainly but not only a geographical distance. We tabled amendments in committee to try to save justices of peace in every province in Wallonia, but unfortunately they did not provoke any reaction either from the minister or on the benches of the majority. Yet, in some judicial districts, the situation is likely to be uncontrollable, according to the actors on the ground, the justices of the peace themselves. For the Walloon Brabant, you have indicated in committee that you have not been able to access the proposals due to the lack of suggestions to reduce the number of cantons.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-plenair-ip206x.u82	The problem is that once again, you are obstinate in making savings without any vision of the future for justices of peace. However, the justices of the peace have explained to you the reasons why the reduction of one canton in six, which corresponds to a reduction of 16%, will cause serious difficulties in the functioning of the canton's justices of the peace. This is proof that the objective is purely accounting. The number of public service missions, in this case those of the judiciary, is still being reduced. The distribution of workload is, in fact, of little importance. I repeat, it is the very notion of public service that is in danger. Justice must be ensured for all citizens, regardless of their means, their place of life and the number of cases dealt with. As the justices of the peace pointed out at the hearings, the situation is already limited in order to render justice worthy of the name, in particular because the minister refuses to fill the cadres, as required by law. Mr. Tasset, President of the Royal Union of Justices of the Peace, declared in committee, on behalf of his own, that evolution does not make any progress for the litigant and does not offer the necessary guarantees for the justices of the peace to exercise their functions in the best possible conditions. Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, it is never right to make a reform against the views of those who are required to implement it. This is an elementary principle. So I wonder why I want to reform a system that works. You will tell me that it is not conservative to want to maintain a system that works, that it is not conservative to want to preserve the justices of peace from the dark cuts of this government. A reform of the cantons should have a completely different objective, namely to reduce the distances between citizens and their justice, whether geographical or socio-economic. Mr Minister, how can we support a reform that undermines and detriculates our local justice system, by removing a quarter of the seats of justice for peace in Wallonia, which removes more than sixty places of court in Belgium? How can we support reform that increasingly restricts the right of access to justice? Who disbands the public service? How can we support a reform of purely budgetary aspiration, without any vision? This reform, I told you, does not bring any perspective or added value. How can we support a reform of the "against": against the opinion of the experts, against the magistrates, against the litigants and against efficiency? It is for these reasons that my group and I will vote "against" your project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-plenair-ip206x.u83	Mr President, Minister, Mrs Özlem Özen has been heard who has defended her point of view. Of course, we are not surprised because, in committee, she was the most active member of the opposition on the subject, and so it is not a surprise in relation to what we have heard today. I have sometimes read in the press that other parliamentarians have mobilized and I have not heard them much! We must also be able to say things as they happened in committee. Minister, my speech will be quite different. It takes a lot of courage to reform these cantons of justice for peace. For sure, change is not always well received, but, in relation to what I have heard about the fact that it has not been agreed, not accepted, it is much more nuanced than that and we all know it! First, we announced the color very early. It's important in democracy to say, "This is where we're going and this is how we're going to get there." At least things are marked and they are clear from the start. In 2014, it's true, the truth is that all departments were faced with an obligation: to make budgetary savings. After that, we must not make "beast, blind and wicked" savings, but try to ensure that they guarantee the quality of public service, the quality of justice, while having the courage to bring about reforms where necessary. I heard the wish to maintain proximity. Honesty dictates that justices of peace are two centuries old. Things have changed since then. The channels of communication are different. They're not perfect everywhere, we don't have a bus in front of his house all over the country. But it is also necessary to have the correction to see that we are a little better equipped than before. When the principle of these justices of peace was confirmed by Belgium – you know that it is a French creation – it was a matter of ensuring that the justiciable could move in justice of peace within a day on foot. We're still in the same pattern. We're even going a little faster. When you question the population and think about it, do you often go to the justice of the peace? Luckily, no! The few times we have to go there, the most important thing is to be well received, to have the rightful person heard and to have justice delivered in a short time. This is the goal of justice of peace: simple, swift, inexpensive justice. The presidents of the justices of the peace were consulted. In some boroughs, there was unanimity. Unfortunately, not everywhere! We had to make good proposals. This consultation was not done at the Hussarde. It started in 2015. We had time in front of us. We can regret what happened in Brussels since, after two years of unanswered requests, after the government agreed on the new cuts, the two French-speaking and Dutch-speaking presidents of the courts of first instance decided to send their proposals. These were heard by the committee. I thank the majority and opposition groups for doing so. This led to a slight redistribution of the map of Brussels. A few numbers to mark the minds and show that we're not too bad in our country. We often tend to be negative. That's too bad. With this reform, we will move from a justice of the peace for every 60,000 inhabitants to a justice of the peace for every 70,000 inhabitants. Our French friends have a justice of the peace for 217,000 inhabitants; our Dutch friends, for every 515,000 inhabitants. It seems to me that the figures are revealing. As far as distance is concerned, the same principle is that there is a justice of the peace every 188 km2. In France, it is every 2 000 km2 and in the Netherlands, every 1 259 km2. There is a minimum of honesty with regard to this reform. While it would have been preferable not to touch it, as in many sectors, we must also have this ability to recognize that the objectives that bind the whole government and therefore the majority must be met. If this reform results in a 13 per cent reduction in the justice system, it can also be recalled that there has been a shift in skills behind it. Of course, new powers may come, but others have moved beyond the jurisdiction of the justice of the peace to the family court. I am thinking of family disputes and the famous article 223 of the Civil Code. Minister, you understand, we will support your project.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-plenair-ip206x.u84	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we have already discussed this draft in detail in committee; I will not repeat everything. It is an important reform, which we cannot ignore. Mr Goffin makes comparisons with the Netherlands and France. Of course, this can be done, but that must be done thoroughly and also compare the powers of the peace judges. He pointed out that Belgium had a justice of peace per 100 000 inhabitants, it was between 50 000 and 100 000 inhabitants, whereas the number was much higher in other countries. But of course that is always linked to the powers of the peace judges. Minister, we are not necessarily opposed to reform. We must reform, we must adapt justice to the new times, we must not be blind to that. I was therefore initially charmed by the criteria you advanced to make the exercise. The criteria such as the number of inhabitants and the workload are very correct and relevant. But when we look at the exercise that has been made and the decisions on the aggregation of which cantons, it is not always clear which criteria were decisive. Of course, that's a problem. The criteria are good, but the choices, the decisions that are made are often incomprehensible in the light of those criteria. I have referred to two examples in committee. There's the example of Ronse. Of course, you can always explain the choice if one criterion apparently outweighs the other. I gave the example of Herentals. That peace court is very easily accessible to the region because of the node of public transport in that place with train and bus connections. Well, accessibility must also be an important criterion. That doesn't matter. The fact that the Government of the Buildings has a building there or not has apparently been decisive. I regret that there is a great deal of discussion about this. That really shouldn't happen. The criteria should be properly weighed. Colleagues, a court of peace is a court of law, a court of law where people go very often as a seeker of justice, even without a lawyer. People often appear before the justice of the peace in person. That is why the distance criterion is so important. A justice of the peace must become a judge of proximity. When we look at the reform, it appears that some of the people who seek justice have to move quite far. Compared to countries which are much more sparsely populated, such as France, the distances may not yet be so large, but taking into account the busy traffic in Belgium and often the lack of public transport in certain areas, this criterion is relevant. In this sense, in some areas, the justice of the peace is at risk of turning a judge of proximity into a judge of distance. That is absolutely not a good thing. You say that we can install another sous l'arbre. The municipalities can ask that a court of peace visit regularly in a particular place. I assume that's what a number of municipalities will ask for. I hope that, when they are justified questions, you will respond positively. In some areas, that really lives. They really want to make efforts to bring justice closer to the people or to keep it closer to them. It is often about municipalities where a seat will disappear. Mr Minister, in committee I also pointed out that it was clear at the hearings that there was an absolute need to invest sufficiently in the remaining buildings of justice when that operation took place. I do not need to remind you of the state in which some buildings are located. Some buildings are really in a terrible state. They're even inaccessible. When one says a, one should also say b. If the choice is now made to regroup cantons in one building and the choice is made for that building, then there must also be substantial investment in its quality and accessibility. In addition, when you do the original saving exercise of 10 %, which results in a decrease in the number of cantons by 13 %... the exercise goes a little further................................................................................................................................. Then you should not go for a 90 percent fill-out of the offices of clerks and peace judges, but a 100% fill-in. Indeed, the frameworks must be really completed, otherwise this will not be feasible. You have done the exercise and you have done a whole process before that in which you checked whether there was a consensus and whether there were no alternatives on the ground. Sometimes you have also listened to the suggestions. In the meantime, other exercises are already underway. For example, you launched the slope to transfer the collective debt regime from labour law banks to the peace courts. When one exercises and formulates a proposal on the basis of this, taking into account the workload, but even before it has been approved, new ideas are being developed whereby other powers are transferred to the peace judges, you should actually repeat the exercise. It is also true that the justice of the peace would have jurisdiction over cases with higher amounts of money, up to EUR 5 000. That too will have an impact on their work. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in principle we are not opposed to good thinking. However, the way in which the proposed exercise was carried out and the criteria applied does not allow us to support the text before us.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-plenair-ip206x.u85	I would just like to intervene briefly to say that our group will, of course, support the Minister in this matter. Of course, it remains a wells-nothing game: is this better or not? There are, however, a number of things I should like to say. Firstly, reducing this reform to a pure saving exercise is not correct. That has been worked on for so long, so many mechanisms have been built in. We are talking here about an efficiency exercise and a modernisation exercise, which can only be further developed by reducing the number of peace courts. Let's be honest. From 187 peace dishes with 229 seats one goes to 162 peace dishes. So let us not exaggerate. This was indeed a thoughtful choice. Secondly, I also refer to the figures mentioned by the chairman of our committee. If the comparison is made with the Netherlands and France, precisely because these two countries are even more extensive, bearing in mind Mrs Özen's arguments, then there should have been more. Mr Van Hecke says that it is normal that there are fewer countries in the Netherlands and France because they are larger countries. But if I have to believe Mrs Özen, there must be more. That is therefore not consistent. I think this is all very well. Thirdly, in this way we are achieving a great efficiency gain, which is indeed necessary. I do not quite understand the argument of the shift of powers. I did not want to interrupt Mr Van Hecke earlier. In recent years, a number of powers have also been removed from the courts of peace. Think of the urgent interim measures. Some peace judges are almost asking for more work. These are the good peace judges who have also worked very concretely with the Minister to reach new agreements. So I think this is not an argument here, but we can continue to argue about that. My group will strongly support and defend this draft. Minister, I know, contrary to what has been said here, that a vast majority of the peace judges have been contacted and heard and can therefore also agree with the plans you are putting forward here.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-plenair-ip206x.u86	Mr President, I would like to respond to what Mr Terwingen has just said. Firstly, the PS Group and the Ecolo-Groen Group are different political groups. We can have a completely different position without necessarily being incompatible. It's a first thing. Secondly, I would like to thank my colleagues for this small course in comparative law. I also thank you for the figures, but I do not know, for example, whether in France the framework is filled at one hundred percent. The system is not the same at all: I do not think that public transport in France is comparable to that in Belgium. We must stop always comparing ourselves to the Netherlands, France, etc. I am a Member of Parliament in Belgium, I am trying to manage the situation in Belgium as much as possible, and I think that with the opposition, we have always done a decent and correct job in the Committee on Justice! We have always been constructive, by tabling amendments, by always trying to improve the texts in order to arrive at a system that can really allow every citizen to benefit from accessible and close justice. You say you've been thinking about alternative mechanisms since 2015. I can hear you. Luckily you've been thinking about it, but we in the opposition have not had it – and yet we have asked for it several times! – the set of criteria that allowed us to understand why we had decided to abolish such justice of peace and not another. I would also like to know what alternative mechanisms you are proposing, Mr Terwingen.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-plenair-ip206x.u87	I no longer have a request for intervention and therefore give the floor to the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-plenair-ip206x.u88	Mr President, I thank the colleagues from the opposition and the majority for their constructive remarks. I believe that most of the questions asked have already been answered in committee. The question of distance is extremely relative: between Herentals and Westerlo, with public transport, it takes 50 minutes and between Clabecq and Nivelles, it is 40 minutes. Eupen and Saint-Vith have two justices of the peace, so it will be possible to have justice under the tree in one of the two localities. Ladies and gentlemen, as far as the court of proximity is concerned, I hope that I have made it clear that I want to keep it. This would have been an opportunity not to. If someone makes an exercise like this, in three stages, it is not to abolish the right of proximity, but rather to give him more opportunities. Mr Van Hecke, I believe that I made it sufficiently clear in the discussion on the policy statement that it is not my intention to transfer the collective debt regime from labour law banks to the peace courts. I have said this repeatedly and I repeat it again. It is true that I will increase the competence of rational summae if Parliament wishes to follow me in the draft law on reducing workload, but above all I would like to stress that, in the medium term, no longer or not again in this legislature, the role of the court of peace will have to be looked at properly. It is important, however, that the functions which give the greatest cause for this should be brought to that level, but for the sake of clarity, except for the rational summae, not now and not before the end of the legislature.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-plenair-ip206x.u89	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-plenair-ip206x.u90	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2695/10) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2695/10) The title was amended by the Committee in draft law amending various provisions in order to reform the judicial cantons." The title has been amended by the commission into a bill amending various provisions with a view to reforming the judicial cantons. The draft law contains 51 articles. The bill has 51 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-plenair-ip206x.u91	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-plenair-ip206x.u92	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. MM. Gautier Calomne and Gilles Foret, rapporteurs, refer to their written report. I thank them for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-plenair-ip206x.u93	Mr President, this draft has also been discussed extensively in committee. The text contains a few good elements which we fully support, but unfortunately also elements which we find difficult to deal with. The good elements, as I have often said, are logical. Firstly, one of the main reasons for this bill was to introduce a licensing requirement for auto-arm loaders. It is remarkable that until today they are freely available in arms stores, in a legal way. It is the federal prosecutor who pointed out to us in previous hearings in the Chamber, in another committee, that it is a problem that one can buy it freely. It is on this basis that initiatives have been taken to link a licence obligation to it. That is a good thing. However, as we have all noticed, there are always people who do not think this is a good idea and who then send massive emails to Members to say that they are affected in their sport. They say that 450 000 inhabitants of our country would be affected by this measure, namely the licensing of loaders. That's bullshit. I have discussed this in detail in committee and I have rejected the arguments put forward. Unfortunately, an amendment has been tabled by the majority in order to make it easier for sportsmen or hunters, who may now also have chargers for weapons which they do not own and for which they do not have a licence but are of the same type as those for which they do have a licence. I think this is a regrettable decision and I think that the majority here has listened a little too much to the lobby of arms dealers and arms owners, which I regret. There is a possibility of imposing conditions for the admission of arms fairs. That is a good thing. I encourage you, Minister, to work on this and to do so very critically and severely. Another important point is the re-opening of the declaration period, a declaration period for persons who have weapons for which they still do not have a licence. I do have a hard time with that because it is the third time that people have the chance to regularize their illegal possession of weapons. It is sometimes said that a donkey does not touch the same stone twice, but we are actually giving it the opportunity to rectify an illegal situation for the third time. On the positive side, however, you have responded positively to a number of suggestions made. In its opinion, the Peace Institute proposed criminalising the attempted violation of the arms law. The majority have followed up on this. Thank you for that, I believe that this is a good thing. This also means that the opinions received very often by the Committee on Justice, through hearings or in writing, are sometimes followed up, which is an important signal. We also discussed the medical certificates during the five-year review. You have indicated that you will deal with this in another draft which is being prepared and which will be submitted to the committee for discussion in the spring. I believe that this is also a good thing. I'm looking forward to those lyrics. Ladies and gentlemen, there is a lot to say about weapons, but our position is actually quite clear: the fewer weapons in circulation the better, the fewer bullets in circulation the better, the fewer chargers there are in circulation the better. We can't be tough enough. We really can't be strict enough about the regulation of private weapon possession. I am convinced that the less weapons, bullets and chargers are in circulation, the safer our society will be. That is why we must support any initiative that applies this stringency. Unfortunately, there are a few proposals in this law that we are not so happy with. We will therefore abstain in the vote on this text, but you can always count on our support for any tightening of arms legislation. I believe that this is really in the interests of a safer society.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-plenair-ip206x.u94	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we have indeed had a whole discussion about the adaptation of the arms law, the introduction of this new amnesty period, which everyone has said we were in favour of. It's not a bad thing that people get another chance. There are weapons that come up later. So it's better that they just surface than they have to be fished by magnet fishermen. We therefore fully support the amnesty arrangement. There has indeed been some discussion about the chargers. As a compromise, we have tabled an amendment on the loaders which we have approved together. Questions have also been asked about it. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to say that we had received opinions on the loaders. There was an opinion that the police services were not very pleased that the chargers would be subject to licensing. According to the Peace Institute, the chargers were certainly not required to be licensed. We have all supported a licence requirement for the marketing of loaders. However, the possession of an earlier situation, which now obliges people to carry out several formalities, was in fact not requested. We have reached an agreement, which I also support. However, we must not be naive and say that we must set an example and therefore make the transfer of cargoes subject to licensing. Let us be honest, it is only a small effort to cross the border with France or the Netherlands and buy loaders there. A terrorist will certainly not follow the rules we lay down. You can rest assured of that. The rules are there. I therefore have difficulty in claiming that the lobby has worked and that we have been guided by the lobby. The people who are endorsed and who still have chargers from the past are all screened about those situations and not about the future. Terrorists should not be sought among those people, but those people feel endorsed whenever there is a tightening of the arms law. Minister, they are aware that we are doing so in the interests of combating terrorism, which we all support. We are all in favour of this fight. On the ground, however, it is usually the ordinary people who are affected, which they do not like. People are laughing about the figures of the number of chargers that could still circulate, but those figures did not fall out of the sky. It is based on the Peace Institute. So there are still a lot of chargers in circulation, which is why we fear that the new duties that are now being imposed would create a nuisance for the police. That is what we want to avoid. I have heard from police services that they wanted to give advice, but that they have not even been given the opportunity to do so or that their opinions were not heard. I will leave that in the middle, but we have asked for an evaluation period and that is allowed. That's what the report says. After a year, we will see if it has really caused any inconvenience. I would like to be wrong, frankly, because we all have the same intentions. However, I want to be realistic and not naive in this and wait for the evaluation period to see if the police services will not be taxed extra. For the rest, we will of course support the draft law.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-plenair-ip206x.u95	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this bill follows on from one of the recommendations made by the Attentats Commission. Every time we felt that the bills met the objectives of combating terrorism, we never failed to support them. We did so when the government proposed the extension of searches between 9:00 p.m. and 5:00 a.m. to combat terrorist offences and criminal associations or organizations in possession of prohibited weapons. We have also supported the expansion of the use of wiretapping to combat arms trafficking and terrorism. This bill attempts to optimize the traceability of weapons. It goes without saying that if an individual is a public security problem, he or she must be able to order him or her to surrender his or her weapons and, in the event of intervention by the police, to know whether he or she has one legally. At the end of 2015, I had tabled a bill to clarify the procedure for the transfer of firearms imported into Belgium with a view to better traceability and to allow the prosecution, whenever justified, to verify the conditions necessary to maintain its authorisation and authorization for the possession of a firearm. The bill also aims to end the over-the-counter sale of firearms shippers by making their purchase conditional on the submission of a valid firearms possession permit or equivalent document. It is well known that this bill has raised concerns among some arms holders and, at times, their scepticism about the added value that this ban would bring in the fight against terrorism, and I can understand that. We must reassure them that the project does not in any way call into question those who already have shippers for family or historical reasons. Moreover, the draft provides for the adaptation of the law on the basis of a ruling of the Constitutional Court, specifying that preservation in the heritage is one of the legitimate grounds for the possession of a weapon subject to authorization, without altering the ad hoc conditions. It should also be explained that the recent instructions have shown that terrorists carry out by their accomplices multiple and legal purchases, in the current framework until this bill, of shippers of a normal capacity that may also be suitable for the use of weapons of war such as kalashnikovs, as the Federal Prosecutor pointed out. This indicates that terrorists can accumulate large quantities of shippers in the short term that they plan to use in an attack. The purpose of this bill is to remedy such abuse by making the sale of shippers subject to the same rules as those applicable to ammunition. Persons with valid weapons do not see their rights challenged, but the Minister has specified that all shippers already detained may continue to do so if they are intended to be used for licensed weapons. Since the purpose of the bill is to combat terrorism and to allow judicial and police authorities to exercise greater control over the sale of certain types of firearms accessories, we believe that this bill deserves our support.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-plenair-ip206x.u96	Mr President, I will not repeat my statement from the committee. I would like to quote three elements. Firstly, there are a lot of good things in this draft. I have already said this to the Minister in committee. We fully support the amnesty round to regularise weapons and we will support them. Secondly, a great deal has already been said about the loaders. This draft law is motivated by the fight against illegal arms trafficking and terrorism. We are the first to support measures on illegal arms trafficking and the fight against terrorism. Whether the placing of chargers under licence is the right method for that, however, I still have my doubts. The essence, of course, is that the terrorists will get to illegal kalashnikovs, so they will get to chargers very easily. The most important thing about a weapon is not the charger, but the weapon itself and the ammo. Weapons and ammunition are rightly already strictly regulated today. Fortunately, a lot of changes have already been made to the law in committee by means of amendments by the majority and there is the compromise that my colleague referred to, so that is already a step in the right direction. However, I have tabled a series of amendments to remove the chargers completely from the draft law. What is in the present draft law can be avoided perfectly, for example by purchasing the charger in parts. A charger is just plastic and can even roll out of a 3D printer. The planned legislation will therefore have very little effect in practice. The illegal arms trade and the terrorists will certainly not be dealt with. As is often the case in the past, the hunters and sportsmen are saddled with extra administration and costs. Thirdly, I would like to take this opportunity immediately to explain one of my amendments. I tabled an amendment following the riots in Brussels in Lemonnierlaan. The aid workers there were attacked by gangs of criminal aliens, but the aid workers had no way to defend themselves. For firefighters and paramedics, asking for police guidance is logical, and that still has to be the first solution in threatening situations. The logical thing for firefighters and paramedics is that they're asking for police guidance. That must still be the first solution in threatening situations. However, if this police supervision is not available, I think it would be fair for the emergency services, both ambulances and firefighters, to have pepper spray to protect themselves in such circumstances and when they are physically attacked. I pulled the numbers. Last year, the police issued no less than 205 minutes for violence against paramedical and medical personnel. This is an increase of 18% compared to the previous year. Unfortunately, events such as deliberately setting up ambulances and firefighters are also incidents that are increasingly common. That is why my amendment No. 26 to provide medical personnel, ambulances and firefighters with the necessary resources to ensure their physical safety, if necessary, in the event of aggression and if the police do not provide assistance.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-plenair-ip206x.u97	Mr President, I too would like to thank the members of the opposition and the majority for giving us these peaceful reservations. We have discussed the chargers for a long time in committee and I think it is clear that the principle of licensing is not affected by the transitional period. In that sense, I believe that the principle in this law is very clear. A transitional arrangement does not seem to me to be abnormal. The same goes for the amnesty. One can be surprised at this, but ultimately amnesty is the best way to raise a number of weapons currently in semi-clandestinity and give them a permit or have them dismantled. Mr President, I believe that this draft law serves its purpose.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-plenair-ip206x.u98	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-plenair-ip206x.u99	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2709/8) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2709/8) The title was amended by the Committee in its draft law amending the Law of 8 June 2006 regulating economic and individual activities with weapons and the Civil Code." The title has been amended by the commission into a bill amending the Act of 8 June 2006 regulating economic and individual activities with weapons and the Civil Code. The draft law has 31 articles. The bill has 31 clauses.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-plenair-ip206x.u100	Annex V.Part 2.124 (b) 21/1(n) • 43 years old Stefaan Van Hecke (2709/9) • 44... Stefaan Van Hecke (2709/9)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-plenair-ip206x.u101	****** The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments and articles that have been tabled and on the whole will take place later. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments and the reserved articles as well as on the whole will take place at a later date. ******
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-plenair-ip206x.u102	Ladies and gentlemen, we have exhausted our agenda. We will resume our work at the end of the Conference of Presidents, because we cannot at present prejudge what will be decided. The meeting was suspended. The sitting is adjourned.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-20-54-plenair-ip206x.u103	The Annex is set out in a separate brochure with number CRIV 54 PLEN 206 annex.
