ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic769x.u1	Minister, over the past few weeks there have been several accidents in Antwerp, but also elsewhere in the country, in which cyclists have died because a truck had not seen them arriving in time. The so-called freeing of conflict from such intersections is, according to many, the only solution to solve such dangerous situations. Only if we ensure that lorries do not need to cross crossing cyclists and pedestrians can such accidents be avoided. The Flemish Region experiments on 13 locations in Flanders with the so-called square greenery, where cyclists have greenery in all directions at the same time, while cars and trucks stand in front of the red. In this way, there is no conflict between cyclists and cars. The Road Safety Support Point already demonstrated two years ago after research that crossroads with conflict-free traffic lights are safer than classic intersections. The risk of weak road users getting involved in a personal injury accident is up to 40% lower. In the Netherlands they have been working on this for a long time. Flemish minister Weyts does not currently want to set up additional intersections in this way, not even as a pilot project. He argues that the concept of square green is contrary to Article 61.3.2 of the road code. This provides: "When the traffic lights are placed at a crossroads, the green or orange-yellow light may appear only when the red lights are lit before the traffic coming out of the transverse roads'. Minister Weyts would have proposed several amendments to the road code. Firstly, in addition to Article 61.3.2, are there any articles that are contrary to the principle of conflict-free intersections, for example through a separate green phase in all directions for cyclists? Secondly, are the ongoing pilot projects contrary to the road code or not? If not, why not? Thirdly, do you think that the principle should be made possible in the road code? Fourthly, by what time do you intend to deal with this? Finally, have you taken any steps in the matter, since the question of the regions was asked a long time ago?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic769x.u2	I can follow Mr D'Hondt's view when it is formulated from the point of view of the road user. For that road user, a green traffic light means allowing the traffic light to pass. The green arrows surrounding the symbol of the cyclist only clarify the situation. The cyclist cannot therefore be punished if he goes under cover of such an integral green traffic light placed under a pilot project at the intersection. The road code does not provide an integral green light, nor does the road code allow the combination of simultaneously green on the side roads. An amendment to Article 61 is therefore necessary in any case. I think it is necessary for the road code to be clear on that point, in particular because it is important for cyclists to know that they can expect cyclists from the side roads when passing such traffic lights. Priority between cyclists must also be regulated. The draft revision of the road code contains several proposals aimed at promoting the safety of vulnerable road users. The discussions are still under way and I do not wish to make too many statements on this at the moment. The reform of the road code is planned for the end of next year. The text is currently at the first reading stage of the working group.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic769x.u3	Thank you, Minister. Your statement that cyclists do not infringe in the framework of the pilot projects is important, as there has been a lot of discussion about this. An amendment to Article 61 of the road code will indeed be necessary. Yet something is not clear to me. You say you are currently working on a modification of the road code. Perhaps you cannot say everything, but can you clarify whether the proposal relating to square green is included? Or isn't that in that exercise?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic769x.u4	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic769x.u5	The problem is taken into account in the amendment. So there will be a legal basis.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic769x.u6	The procedure is acquired and incorporated into the reform of the Road Traffic Code. It only concerns cyclists. At one point, it was a question of including pedestrians, but we decided to do the same as in the Netherlands and to do it only for cyclists, in order to avoid conflicts with pedestrians.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic769x.u7	I think it is important to provide a legal basis. This is a positive signal.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic769x.u8	Mr Minister, the 2010 airport agreement sets out the following wind standards and performance criteria: 7 knots of backwind, wind blows including, a tolerance of 2 knots of backwind, wind blows including and 15 knots of sidewind, wind blows including. The federal government agreement stipulates that these criteria should not be changed and that they should even be legally anchored. However, following the judgments of the Brussels Court and an audit carried out by the Directorate-General for Aviation, you would be examining whether the criteria could be raised to 10 knots of back winds, including wind blows. This could reduce the inconvenience for residents living in the extension of the runway 01. The consequence of this procedure will of course be that there will be much more frequent flights in the West Wind Configuration, as is already the case today for about 85%. You yourself understand that this would be an infringement of a balanced distribution of the nuisance. My questions to you are the following. First of all, do you confirm that you're having this piste examined? Secondly, what exactly is the reason for this intervention, because I do not think this is part of the judgment given by the Brussels court? Finally, were these adjustments already discussed with, for example, the pilot organisation BeCA? What were their recommendations? Thank you for your answers, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic769x.u9	Dear colleague, I have to tell you two things. Firstly, following the DGTA audit on the use of runways at Brussels-National Airport and the parliamentary committees in June and July 2017, I confirmed my willingness to clarify the standards in force on the basis of the audit recommendations. Since then, I have been working with my cabinet on a clarifying note. This required the cooperation of several actors in the dossier, mainly DGLV and Belgocontrol. I now hope to reach a final draft that will be presented to the government, taking into account all the technical advice that was needed. The clarification will take into account the points highlighted by the audit, including taking into account the gust and weather forecasts. Clarification is first and foremost guided by the need to maintain the safety of air transport. My will is to respect the government agreement as best as possible. Mr Wollants, as far as the execution of the sentence is concerned, I will make the necessary preparations to implement the decision of the sentence, since the government has decided not to appeal. Since last month, I have been providing the Brussels Region with a list of aircraft that took the Canal route from 11 p.m. to 7 a.m. the previous month. This list will be sent to the Region on a monthly basis. At the present time, work is still under way to comply with judgment, taking into account all the nuances expressed by each other.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic769x.u10	You will understand, Minister, that we are following the dossier with our eyes, because the question of wind standards has a very long history. You are undoubtedly aware of the airside study carried out in the past and you know the whole history of the changes made by one of your predecessors, Mr Wathelet, to the standards. That was also partly about interpretation. You also know that your current colleague, Mr Kris Peeters, as Prime Minister of the Flemish Government, also made a very strong alarm about this at the time when the wind standards were being raised. We will therefore be watching this very closely, but the process must, of course, run and the talks must take place within the government. But it is true that it will not only be an issue to implement the coalition agreement as well as possible, but above all to implement the coalition agreement.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic769x.u11	The Chair: Mr. Wollants, your next question is about drones. In my view, in the discussion on the policy note, this was fully answered. The question was attached to a question from Ms. Lahaye-Battheu. Do you wish to maintain this question, Mr. Wollants?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic769x.u12	Madam President, if it is possible, I would like to get the answer on paper.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic769x.u13	Question No 21440 by Mrs Lahaye-Battheu is transformed into a written question. The attached question No. 21494 by Mr Wollants is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic769x.u14	Minister, given the age pyramid and the non-replacement of workers by your government, the number of railway workers has been steadily decreasing in recent years. This decrease leads to a reduction in the number of trade unions, which leads me to ask you questions about the organisation of social elections. Could you tell me more about this organization? How will these elections be financed? Is the financing of these elections not compromised when this trade union allocation is declining and, according to the exchanges we have had on this issue in committee, there is a priori no desire to devote a specific additional budget to it?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic769x.u15	Dear colleague, HR Rail informs me that during the National Joint Committee of 13 November 2017, the date and manner of voting was set for the next social elections. HR Rail is responsible for the practical organization. The vote will take place from 3 to 7 December 2018. It will be done on paper in insulators. Employers had made a great deal of effort to ensure that a postal vote was also planned, but unfortunately no majority could be found in the trade union organisations on this subject. The union endowments do not finance social elections; HR Rail is responsible for the costs of their organisation.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic769x.u16	Minister, thank you for these points of answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic769x.u17	Minister, since November 1st, SNCB's Marketing & Sales Directorate has been imposing a strict performance score system with zero tolerance. This means, for example, that an officer working from 6:00 a.m. to 2:00 p.m. must arrive before 6:00 a.m., otherwise a penalty may be imposed. This implies that some workers must take a train very early in order, in some cases, to arrive up to 40 minutes before the start of the service. This zero benefit tolerance would only be applied by Marketing & Sales. The SNCB transport (B-TR) would accept flexibility in relation to arrival and departure times. A 15-minute reserve is included in the system so that the relays between two services can be maintained. Such flexibility could solve more than 90% of the problems experienced by Marketing & Sales managers since the introduction of this strict score. It would also appear that these changes in work have taken place without any consultation with the trade union organisations. Minister, do you confirm this change in working conditions? What are the reasons for this? Could the required 15-minute flexibility be considered? What about social consultation on this point? Indeed, some of the staff could use their right to strike to challenge this decision, which we absolutely want to avoid.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic769x.u18	Dear colleague, the SNCB tells me that as of January 1st, the benefit score system will be gradually generalized. The score is already applicable to a large majority of employees. Starting next year, this system will be further extended. This measure is also part of the digitalisation process which SNCB wishes to strengthen within the company. The general principles for the implementation of the score of all SNCB staff were presented to the trade union organisations at a national joint subcommittee on 4 October 2017. It comes to my mind that this has not given rise to any reaction. However, it was agreed that the project, depending on specific local circumstances, would also be discussed in the Regional Joint Committees. The score of marketing & sales management staff is on the agenda of the Regional Joint Committee of the District Centre today, November 22. I haven't heard from this meeting yet. SNCB confirms to me that working conditions do not change. The rules already applied previously will now be applied more strictly. In order to digitize the services, the start of a service will be via a login. There will therefore no longer be any need for interpretation of the beginning and end of the service. The SNCB, however, informs me that the 15-minute reserve introduced to the Transport Directorate is used for the operational rotation of the staff, with regard to which a transfer of information must take place. The two situations are therefore not comparable. Finally, Mrs Grovonius, I would like to point out to you that the principle of arriving before the scheduled start time of a shift applies to an overwhelming majority of companies, if not all. In a company whose main expectation of customers, but also of stakeholders, is that the service is punctual, it seems to me legitimate for each staff member to show punctuality, especially the staff members in contact with customers or directly involved in the traffic of trains. This makes reasoning difficult to defend. If the trains are to depart on time and the windows are to be opened on time, it seems to me that the agents must be on time at their station. I suppose, like us, you're a supporter of punctuality at work. If this were not the case, you would defend a deterioration in customer service. Therefore, the principle of score which is already applicable to a large part of the staff will now apply to all staff, in accordance with the decision taken by SNCB.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic769x.u19	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your answers. The general principles had indeed been mentioned. But beyond these principles, there are special cases. Thus, it is not a question of pointing to his arrival at work, but of pointing to a system. But before this can be achieved, a series of procedures must be followed by the workers, which requires some time, time which is not taken into account since the start time of the working day is maintained. Having said that, we have received good news. Indeed, a meeting was held today. Depending on the information that has come to me, a margin of manoeuvre of about 8 minutes would be left to the officers. In my opinion, this progress is a good thing, but it is not enough. I would therefore like to draw your attention to the fact that, by allowing them a margin of manoeuvre of about 12 minutes, the agents in question could fulfil the tasks assigned to them before they log in so that their working time can begin to be counted. I appreciate your humour about the legitimacy of punctuality at work. I have no difficulty with that. But when you always ask for more flexibility, it must not only be in favour of employers! I would like to talk about flexibility, but it must also allow the staff to organise their life and working time in the best way possible, in consultation, of course, with the head of department, which, in this case, has been doing very well so far. But when you say that you couldn't check the staff's work sessions at the counters, there's a mistake. For at present, he could already do so, in particular, on the basis of the lists of cash transfers which allow us to know precisely when he had started to work and when he had finished. Flexibility should not be a unilateral principle. I think you can act as mediator in this case.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic769x.u20	Madam President, Minister, before I ask my question I must explain the following in detail. In my city, Harelbeke, the railway line Kortrijk-Gent-Antwerp runs right through the center, on an elevated berm on which are concrete blocks, which should normally be anchored, to stop the earth lying on top of them. After checking, however, our services have found that these concrete blocks have fallen down in several places, which is therefore no longer safe. Your services were informed of this by registered mail on 30 September 2016. For security reasons and in preparation of the works announced by your services, access to the nearby streets and footpaths was closed. Infrabel sent a recovery plan the following month for reranking the concrete blocks and the works would take place from September to December 2017. Until now, that has not happened. On the contrary, on 14 June 2017, we were informed that the bid was too high for the amount proposed and that a new tender had to be made with a new timing. The works would start in November 2017 at the earliest. However, that was not the end of the agony, because on 19 September we were told that there was already a delay because the costs had been exceeded again. There is therefore another specifications in preparation for tender in April 2018. The approval shall then be for July 2018. The award could continue in August and the works could start at the earliest in September 2018 according to the timing set by Infrabel. There is no doubt, Minister, that this is an immense delay. Then the nearby streets, the footpaths and the bike paths will no longer be accessible for more than two years. We're running out of patience. The cyclists and pedestrians have to make a detour to pass the city centre streets. Mr President, first of all, can you give us a final state of play on the planning of the work in this area? Secondly, how come the anchoring of dangerous deckstones is taking so long? Thirdly, Infrabel has already informed us twice that the estimated amount has been exceeded. How is it that the proposed financial limits have been exceeded twice? Fourthly, can you, as the Minister responsible, urge Infrabel to speed up this dossier?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic769x.u21	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, according to Infrabel, the covered stones in question are not a danger. They are stable in place and can only be shifted by means of a great force. Some deckstones have been loosened during work on the platforms and during mowings. The deckstones are regularly checked during inspections. The start of the works is planned for 2018. As the legislation applies to public contracts, the works cannot be started earlier. This does not prevent the city of Harelbeke from being informed of the ongoing proceedings in good time and regularly by email and by registered letter.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic769x.u22	Minister, it is true that correspondence has been regularly sent over and over again. The railway line, which is already mentioned in my next question, runs right through the centre of the city of Harelbeke. There are footpaths along them and certain deck stones are about a meter high. You say that only a heavy force on the decks can bring it down, but I think it's enough for a man to pull it down to get it down. We regard this as a dangerous situation. That is why the footpaths are currently closed, just like some of the bike paths. I therefore urge that the work be carried out quickly.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic769x.u23	Mr President, Minister, this question concerns the same railway line and the same city, the city of Harelbeke, of which I am mayor. I have heard that the section between Kortrijk and Waregem - between Harelbeke - of the railway line 75 Kortrijk-Gent, towards Antwerp, will be renewed in the course of 2018. This is a very important and busy railway line that runs right through the centre of Harelbeke, where on the one hand the IC trains reach speeds of at least 140 km per hour and, on the other hand, slow down for the stop in the station of Harelbeke. This creates the necessary noise. This question is not just about innovation. According to press releases, noise dampening mats, known as track pads, will gradually be used in the renewal of railway lines. My question is about these pads. These pads bring down the noise with three decibels compared to tracks without pads. Moreover, these mats prove to be more effective and efficient than soundproof walls, as these walls only protect the dense environment and the pads reduce noise for everyone. The use of these new mats on this line seems useful and necessary in the circumstances, and we support this proposal, but I still have a few questions for you. Will the works start effectively in early 2018 in Harelbeke? If so, what is the deadline? Will the entire track in Harelbeke be equipped with such tracks? Where are such mats already being tested in Belgium? Which railway yards are first covered and are therefore equipped with the pads? Are the tracks systematically installed everywhere or only in densely populated areas when they are renewed?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic769x.u24	Madam President, Minister, I have a question on the same subject. Infrabel has developed a new method to reduce noise from trains. It uses rubber rails that are mounted between the tracks and the concrete transverse beams. The new tracks reduce noise by 3 decibels. This corresponds to a halving of the noise level against the previous tracks. Meanwhile, 40 km of track was already equipped with the new tracks. From 2018 it would be between 100 and 150 kilometers per year, although only in the renewal of the tracks. The aim is to reduce rail noise by 10% by 2020. My questions to you are the following. How much was invested in the research and development of this application? What is the total annual budget that Infrabel invests in research & development? What is the way in which such projects are financed? What is the origin of these funds? Is Infrabel implementing this on the basis of its own commercial budgets or is it charged to the state grant to Infrabel? Finally, does Infrabel intend to commercialise this new application? Who is responsible for any commercial loss?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic769x.u25	Madam President, you see that Dutch speakers are not the only ones interested in noise-resistant pads. Indeed, I believe that this is a European first. These pads have already been tested on a stretch of a few tens of kilometres between Brussels and Ostend. This test shows that the system is more efficient and less expensive than the noise-resistant walls currently used. It was announced that the network would be equipped at a rate of 100 to 150 km per year as of next year. Do you confirm this information? What will be the main focus of this new system? I guess they'll be in urban areas. What will be the annual budget for this facility?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic769x.u26	Colleagues, Infrabel has developed a new railpad that has been tested on the Brussels-Ostende line. It has already been implemented over 40 km in various parts of the network since the beginning of 2017.The further implementation is planned from 2018, at a rate of 100 to 150 km per year. Installation is planned for each track renewal and for each new track development. These renewals are distributed across the entire network according to the age and condition of the existing track. Given the very limited additional cost compared to the old systems, and the fact that the installation is resumed in the planned work, the cost for the implementation of the railpad has been included in the existing budgets for renewals and extensions. There is therefore no specific budget for the implementation of the railpad itself. I'm getting to work in Harelbeke. The preparatory work starts during the second week of January 2018. The actual renewal works will take place during the weekend of 27 and 28 January, 3 and 4 February, 17 and 18 February and 24 and 25 February 2018. The works are expected to be completed by the end of 2018. The sleepers will already be equipped with such rails. The yards are determined by the age and state of the track. Because all cross-ties are systematically equipped with the new pads, there are no priorities in the yards. You also had a question about research and development. The development of these tracks is carried out by its own staff and is the result of research into noise complaints. No specific budget for research and development was used. The cooperation of industry was crucial to the development of prototypes. This has translated into a very small extra charge of 1 euro per meter of rail. Infrabel has no plans for the commercialisation of these tracks.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic769x.u27	Thank you, Minister, for the clear answer. In the name of the citizens of our city, I can tell you that they will be able to sleep better from next year on. I'm a witness because I've never lived more than 50 metres from that railroad in my entire life.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic769x.u28	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. Congratulations to Infrabel engineers for developing a revolutionary method to reduce noise pollution.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic769x.u29	I am also very pleased with the answer that has been formulated, especially since noise-resistant walls may be effective, but not very pretty. In this sense, this suits us very well.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic769x.u30	Madam President, Minister, the railway station in Bilzen has two tracks on the passenger platforms and a third alternate track. That third track used to be used to divert freight trains from the Genk industrial zone. However, this slipway has not been used for years, at least I have been told, partly because it would be too short to allow today's longer trains to swerve. Is it true, Minister, that the third track, the alternate track, is too short for the current trains? What's the exact length of that alternate track? How many times has that track been used in recent years? Is SNCB prepared to sell the bed of a no longer used railway to the local government?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic769x.u31	Ladies and gentlemen, Infrabel informs me that the detour in Bilzen has an operational length of about 296 metres. That track is too short for the diversion of freight trains. The length of the track will decrease further due to future signals. The crossing that crosses the three tracks is the greatest limitation in view of the useful length. This would disappear in the realization of the Spartacus project. In recent years, the slipway has been driven 471 times. Infrabel informs me that the possible sale of the bed of no longer used traces as well as the putting out of service of little used traces should be evaluated on a case-by-case basis.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic769x.u32	Thank you, Minister, for your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic769x.u33	Madam President, Minister, in the press on 18 November this year, we were talking about SNCB's out-of-service electronic ticket sales system across the country because of a computer failure. It had initially touched the large Brussels stations on Saturday morning at around 9:00 a.m. and subsequently extended to the entire network. As a result, no tickets could be purchased from the automatons. Minister, do you confirm this information? If so, can you provide us with details of the incident and, in particular, the duration of the breakdown, its consequences on rail traffic, on staff and passengers, as well as the assessment of its financial cost, including the loss of revenue for SNCB, as well as any measures taken at the moment and those envisaged for the future to prevent this type of inconvenience from occurring?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic769x.u34	Madam President, thank you and I would also like to thank my colleague Emir Kir for accepting the change requested. Mr Minister, a technical problem has recently put out of service the automatic ticket sales terminals at all Brussels stations. As a result, users had no choice but to turn to the traditional desks leading to queues. Many testimonies have come from people who missed their train as a result of this incident. They were not allowed, despite the circumstances, to purchase their ticket from the train attendant at no additional cost. Minister, have you been kept informed of this event? Would it not be conceivable that, in this exceptional case, in the future, tickets could be purchased at the normal rate on the train?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic769x.u35	Colleagues, the SNCB informs me that it actually had to deal with a major computer failure on Saturday, November 18, 2017, from 9:05 a.m. to 12:00 p.m. Although the computer and financial analysis of the incident is still ongoing, SNCB tells me that it is examining with its partners leads to avoid this type of incident. A human error would be the basis of the breakdown in question. SNCB states that in such cases, it suggests to its customers that they buy their ticket either from the station counter or from the train attendants. It comes to my mind that such a breakdown occurred on 15 September 2017 and that the SNCB had quickly decided to inform its flight crew not to apply the tariff on board, on an exceptional basis, during the duration of the disturbance. However, this has not been the case this time, which I deeply regret. However, SNCB informs me that customers who have had to pay the fare on board may apply to customer service for a refund.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic769x.u36	Minister, thank you for your answer. With regard to the last part of it, I imagine that information is given to the public, in any case to the users who could claim this refund.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic769x.u37	You represent the public, since you represent the citizen. I think that was indicated on the platform. Otherwise, I will ask that this be done.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic769x.u38	I am very pleased with the minister's reaction to this possibility of paying back the supplement. I hope that in the future you will be able to inform the attendants directly that they can issue tickets without a fee increase.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic769x.u39	Mr Minister, news from the press on 16 November points out that the association of Touring motorists is calling for the establishment of an emergency passage band for rescue services when traffic slows down or in case of traffic jams. Every year, rescue services lose vital minutes because they are blocked in traffic and traffic jams. In principle, emergency vehicles must be at the site of the incident within the first ten to fifteen minutes, but traffic density and lines on our motorways often prevent this from being achieved, as the organisation notes. Indeed, the law provides that the road must be cleared to allow emergency vehicles moving with their siren to pass, but the way in which they do so is not stipulated. When an emergency car approaches, there is therefore a disorganisation of vehicles that do not know where to go or dare not clear the road. This often results in a considerable loss of time for rescue services who must make impossible manoeuvres to cross traffic jams or slow traffic. Minister, what is your view on this? What measures in relation to the issues raised are you considering at your level? What would be the time frame for the possible implementation of this type of trail? How do you intend to work with the Regions? What do you think about the introduction of Touring's German system on Belgian motorways? In this system, all motorists are obliged to make a corridor or an emergency passage band on roads with two minimum traffic bands in case of slow traffic. Vehicles on the left-hand side shall then move as far to the left as possible, while vehicles on the other sides shall move as far to the right as possible, including on the emergency berms and stop strips. Finally, are you in favour of adapting the Road Traffic Code? If so, how and when would you like to proceed? Thank you in advance for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic769x.u40	Mr President, Mr Kir, I have considered Touring's proposal to include in the Road Code a rule requiring motorists to create a corridor allowing emergency services to pass as far as possible to the left or right. Currently, article 9.7 of the Road Traffic Code already provides for a rule that facilitates the emergency passage of certain vehicles. Priority vehicles performing an urgent mission are allowed to travel on the emergency stop band to the site of an incident. Persons or services required by the Public Prosecutor's Office, the federal or local police and convenience stores may also be used to travel to the site of an accident that occurred on the highway or motor vehicle road. This rule has the advantage of allowing these vehicles to travel to a relatively clear and familiar place for motorists. If the rule proposed by Touring is also introduced, the situation may be confusing for both drivers of priority vehicles and other motorists. What will be the driver's position in a priority vehicle? Should the other drivers move to the left or to the right, at the risk of obstructing the emergency stop band, or simply remain in their place in the line, while the emergency stop band remains free? The working group preparing for the adaptation of the Road Traffic Code did not consider this possibility, given the existing satisfactory rules and the absence of specific requests in this regard. However, I am still awaiting the opinion of the Federal Highway Police that I have requested on this specific issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic769x.u41	Minister, thank you for that answer. You follow the opinion of the working group, which does not consider this as part of the reform of the Road Traffic Code. Who is in the working group? Which public and private actors?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic769x.u42	It is composed of representatives of the Regions, the Federal Police, the Public Prosecutor's Office, etc. All related actors, by far or by far, will be able to deliver an opinion once the final draft has been drawn up. It is therefore the police, the justice system and the regions. They were asked if it was useful. We await the response of the federal police to see if there are any real concerns at this level. Even though Antwerp and Brussels are regularly congested, it is apparently nothing near other countries or cities.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic769x.u43	Mr President, Minister, among the measures taken on the occasion of the 2015 General States of Road Safety, it was decided to organise a national road safety day on 15 November. This year, the Vias Institute publishes the results of a survey of a representative sample of the Belgian population on irritating behaviour and aggressive traffic. Among the irritating behaviors, "squatting" the middle strip on highway and the non-use of the flashing in agglomeration are the most hated behaviors by drivers. There are also some surprising differences between provinces. Minister, what is your analysis of this Vias Institute investigation? At this point, have you been able to draw any conclusions? Are you planning measures? Are you considering discussing this with the Regions? How many people in Belgium were selected to participate in this survey? Could you disaggregate the results by age, sex and region?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic769x.u44	Ladies and gentlemen, I have read the findings of the Vias Institute's investigation, which, in particular, reveal that aggressive drivers are twice as involved in accidents as the quietest drivers. The survey also demonstrated the most irritating driving behaviours, particularly staying on the middle strip, not using flashing lights, calling the wheel or heeling another driver. In the light of the results of the investigation, I find that for all the most irritating behaviours, there is already a legal framework and the penalties provided for. Obviously, we can always try to do even more checks. But the most important conclusion I have is that road safety is everyone's business. Although the government has laws and more and more controls, every driver must be responsible for driving and ensure that he or she adopts a course of action that does not endanger other users. Awareness-raising campaigns, which are of regional competence, can also help to raise awareness among motorists in order to avoid bad behaviour on the road. Recently, Wallonia launched a communication campaign on courtesy driving. I think this is a good initiative since, according to some studies, being courteous helps to reduce the number of people killed on the roads. Some small driving errors must be tolerated by other drivers and an apology may sometimes defuse an irritating situation. As for the methodology of the survey, it was carried out online by the iVOX study office, at the request of the Vias Institute, between 22 September and 4 October 2017, among 1,000 Belgians. This sample is representative in terms of language, gender, degree level and Region. The maximum margin of error is 3.02%.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic769x.u45	Mr President, Minister, on 16 November 2017, the Council of Ministers approved Belgium's candidacy for the future hosting of the Galileo Security Monitoring Centre (GSMC) back-up. The European Centre for Space Security and Education (ESEC) in Redu, already involved in the Galileo programme, will be proposed to the European Commission. Indeed, the European Commission has stated that Belgium's application is relevant and has set many safety and surface requirements. The Redu Centre is already an important link in the Galileo project, the future European GPS. With its antenna of 15 meters in diameter, it recalculates and validates the orbit of satellites. If retained by the European Commission, it will also become a key part of the data security of the satellite system. Minister, could you give us more details about Belgium's candidacy, including its likelihood of success in your opinion, the number of other applications allowed, the Commission's response time and the operational timing of the site? What will be the total Belgian budget for the construction of this infrastructure on the site of the European Space Agency of Redu?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic769x.u46	Dear colleague, Belgium has reserved a favourable follow-up to the Call for expressions of interest to members states for hosting the back-up Galileo Security Monitoring Centre (GSMC), launched on 1 August 2017. Our application was formalized by the filing of a preliminary file dated September 19. The Commission informed us on 6 October that the Belgian application had been accepted. Our country is invited to submit a full application. No list of successful candidate countries is reported. Following the agreement of the Council of Ministers on 16 November, Belgium confirmed its candidacy by submitting a complete dossier on Friday, 17 November. A technical opinion and a full evaluation of the various tenders will be submitted to the Commission's decision in January 2018. The management and implementation of access to the Public Regulated Service (PRS) is the submerged part of the site's activities. The essential task of the GSMC is to ensure the integrity of the system and thus to ensure the cyber security of the entire Galileo programme. As such, the project we are aiming for must enable Belgium to contribute actively to agility – i.e. the capacity for immediate adaptation – and to the resilience, the guarantee of service of the programme and to participate in the strengthening of European strategic autonomy. Daily news reports indicate that cyberspace has become the scene of recurrent and aggressive actions with often underestimated consequences. Hosting the GSMC's back-up site is undoubtedly part of the operationalization of an ambitious and original vision for cybersecurity and is an essential opportunity for our government and industry, business and science players. As a result of a development strategy initiated by the Federal State and the European Space Agency, the site already hosts ESA's cybersecurity hub. The site has the ambition to become the centre of expertise for security for and from space for all of the Agency's projects. We have chosen to propose a solution that meets the technical and access conditions, but also the security conditions imposed by the Commission. The government is confident in the chances of success of this candidacy, which is the subject of a very important commitment by the various parties, knowing that this call for projects is the result of Brexit. The determination of the budget and operating costs and the proposal for financing, with assistance from the Walloon Region, of the European Commission, are criteria subject to the Commission's evaluation. I therefore consider it premature to communicate precise figures at present.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic769x.u47	Ladies and gentlemen, we are getting to the end of our work. Debates of the European Parliament I should like to make a few brief comments on this point. 21779 by Mrs Muriel Gerkens. Mr Senesael was due to come to our committee. The two reasonable technical questions Nos 22016 and 22017 by Mr Jef Van den Bergh are converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic769x.u48	Mr President, Minister, in Limburg's interest of 21 November, we were told that there is still disagreement between you and your Flemish colleague Mr Weyts on the use of the so-called virtuous billion for rail investment. According to the newspaper, Minister Weyts would only like to spend the Flemish part of this billion on the 11 rail priorities set by the Flemish Parliament in 2013, while your proposal would include some other projects that would benefit the traveller. I have the following specific questions. What timing do you use to decide on the virtuous billion in rail investment? When do you think it is possible to finally approve the full multiannual investment plan for SNCB and Infrabel? Where are the fundamental differences between the proposals of yourself and Minister Weyts?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic769x.u49	Minister, I would like to join Mrs Lijnen's question. It is clear that there is a difference in vision between the Flemish competent minister and the federal government. On the federal side, there is a choice for projects that could be started tomorrow, so to speak. These are projects that are ready, projects that need to be further realized and smaller or so-called smaller investments, such as platform increases, parkings, bicycle parking, etc. Your Flemish counterpart does not seem to be open to the virtuous billion being used for that. Mr Minister, I have the following questions. What is the status of the investment plan? What are the views of the different parties? In what way do you want to solve this blocking? How can we achieve good cooperation agreements? What's the timing? An inter-ministerial conference would recently be organised, but it could not continue in the absence of agreement. What's the further planning? What is your position on the wish expressed by Minister Weyts for co-financing from the Regions? What would be the conditions for that? What projects would be involved? How do you want to record that in chords?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic769x.u50	Mr President, Mrs Lijnen, SNCB adopted a first multi-annual investment plan on 28 October 2016. Infrabel did so on May 30, 2017. However, both multi-annual investment plans did not appear to be coordinated. Therefore, a harmonisation of multi-annual investment plans took place between May and September, mainly in order to ensure consistency between the investments of both companies in the context of reception hall projects, which are largely located in Flanders and which give concrete effect to the desire to put the customer at the centre. It should be stressed that harmonisation was made possible by the use of a small part of the virtuous billion. In future, it can be considered that there are sufficient resources for the multi-annual investment plan, within the meaning of the Special Law of 1980, as amended by the Sixth State Reform. It thus meets one of the main conditions opening the way for additional financing of railway works by the Regions. The use of the funds available gave rise to an extensive dialogue with the regions. A scenario was started which gave priority to harmonisation and to yards that could be completed with the available resources. Other scenarios were devised with additional funding from the Flemish Region. Consultations would take place between the Flemish parties which are part of the federal and regional governments in order to achieve harmonisation between them. Given the federal origin of the resources that have made it possible to unblock the situation, I now expect the Flemish government parties to find a consensus among themselves on the desired investments. I would like to add that, on 27 October 2017, the Board of Directors of SNCB approved not only its amended multi-annual investment plan, but also its multi-annual strategic investment plan, with all the railway projects financed by the'successful billion'. Infrabel may soon adopt its multi-annual strategic investment plan. Numerous working meetings are also held with the Regions to finalise the texts of the cooperation agreement and the implementing cooperation agreements envisaged.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic769x.u51	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. Indeed, I think it is important to carry out all the work and first to make the investments that benefit travellers. I think that's a good starting point. Flanders can of course use pre- and co-financing as a lever for any additional projects. However, I would urge you to do so in your consultation with Flanders. We ask questions based on what we hear in the newspaper. I read again today that Mr Raskin is talking about line 18 in Limburg. He's talking about a feasibility study. According to my information, it's not about a feasibility study, it's about a location survey. Before applying for a permit for a line one must know on which route the line will be constructed, unless I have to deduce from the press report that Mr Raskin is from the old route, but then he would make a preliminary purchase on the current investigation. I thought it was important to underline this again today. You will understand that it is important for Limburg that a number of investments are now being put on track. I am referring specifically to the electrification of two lines. I urge you to do this as soon as possible. Every day that there is no final decision on the investment plan is one day too many. I would really like to ask you to urge your Flemish colleague to cut these buttons in a constructive way, because the blackbird continues to move from one level to another does not take us any further. The Minister for Mobility in Flanders may also take responsibility for this.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic769x.u52	Mrs Lijnen, as an Antwerpian, I can support this for 100 percent. I support Mrs Lijnen's reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic769x.u53	Mr.President, Minister, in June 2013, SNCB decided to shut down the ticket offices at Herseaux Station permanently. Six months later, the waiting room suffered the same fate. I know this station particularly well to frequent it assiduously to go to this Parliament. In order to allow the reopening of this station, the City of Mouscron approved in February 2015 the agreement of a long-term lease with SNCB for the reopening of the station. However, more than 32 months later, the station is still not reopened. Minister, as winter approaches and its cool temperatures, the users of the Herseaux station are at least entitled to expect premises where to wait for their train under acceptable conditions. However, without a duly validated emphyteosis agreement, the City is not permitted to undertake the necessary and expected work. Minister, can you provide an update on this matter? Do you intend to put an accelerator on it? How do you explain that more than two and a half years after the signing of the lease agreement, the waiting room is still closed and the situation inside the building does not seem to change? At the time, the possibility of creating a concierge position had been raised. What about this proposal?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic769x.u54	Dear colleague, I remember that the emphyteotic lease project was approved by the Board of Directors of SNCB in April 2015, so more than two years ago. SNCB states that since then this project has been in the process of being approved at the municipal level. According to the information available to SNCB, it was presented to the municipal council on 20 November 2017. The signature of the act is planned after obtaining the approval of the communal guardianship; i.e. within sixty days, I think. SNCB adds that it is not aware of the reasons for such a delay in approving the file within the municipal administration. The emphyteosis foresees that the commune creates within the old station, a waiting room for travellers, as well as the concierge that you mentioned. That's what I can tell you about this case.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic769x.u55	Thank you, Minister, for your answers to clarify the situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic769x.u56	This brings us to the end of our work.
