ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic684x.u1	Minister, at the beginning of April, the Brussels police came up negative in the news because of the way they dealt with two Brussels Flemings. According to the press, on the night of 31 March on 1 April a Flemish couple who had used a taxi was beaten and robbed by the taxi driver and his accomplices. A passing police patrol took them to the coal market police station. There, however, they were refused to speak to them in Dutch and were really treated unfairly. My questions are as follows. Are the facts denounced by the couple in the press? In which language was the pv drawn up? Is it true that the people concerned were refused to speak in Dutch? Was there at that time no one present at the coal market police station who was powerful in the Netherlands? Is there an investigation into this incident? If so, what are the results? My other questions relate to the language skills of the Brussels police in general. After all, it is not the first time I have questioned you about this. I have still not received an answer to my most recent written question about figures, but I read in the newspaper that your party colleague Karl Vanlouwe was already able to obtain figures. Can you tell me for the six Brussels police zones together how many police officers were employed on 1 January 2017 and how many of them had the required bilingualism certification? Finally, I have three questions about your policy on this matter. When I spoke to you about this last year, you said that you should consider the security situation and the question of bilingualism. Of course, it cannot be the intention for a very strict approach to this bilingual attestation to conflict with security. I understand that this is not an easy balance, but you replied that the efforts for bilingualism should be stepped up and that you would commit yourself to this. We are now more than a year away. In the meantime, are only agents who have proven their knowledge of the second language recruited, or are monolingual staff still recruited? Are you taking measures to prevent the recruitment of monolingual staff to the Brussels police force? What policy will you pursue with regard to the agents who are still not bilingual although they have already been given more than enough time to be bilingual? Will you take an initiative to ensure that any recruitment by the Brussels police zones in respect of their compliance with language legislation would be subject to official control again, for example by obliging the zones to return any recruitment file, as in the past, to the vice-governor and to grant them both compulsory suspension and destruction powers?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic684x.u2	Mrs Pas, just to clarify, when you speak of officers, I assume you mean all police officers and not just those with the degree of officer. The police are very sensitive to that terminology, so you may try to take this into account on another occasion. As far as the specific answers to your questions are concerned, I contacted the Chief Constable of the Brussels Police District Capital of Ixelles last week, and I can inform you that a judicial inquiry was opened on the precise nature of the facts. The investigation is still ongoing, so I can't comment on that for the time being. I can tell you, however, that the complainant concerned was initially addressed by an employee who understands the Dutch language only moderately: very moderately controlled, after which the complainant was immediately helped by a Dutch-speaking colleague. The first contact however went with someone who spoke very flawed Dutch. There is also an internal disciplinary investigation currently under way, which I cannot say anything about either. With regard to your second question, I will give you an inventory by framework and language system for the six Brussels police zones, which date from 4 January 2017. As regards Dutch-speaking police officers with French knowledge: agents: 137 out of 141 (97 %); inspectors: 1 207 out of 1 310 (92 %); chief inspectors: 243 out of 249 (97.5%); officers: 185 out of 185 (100 %). As regards French-speaking police officers with knowledge of Dutch: agents: 231 out of 437 (almost 53 %); inspectors: 951 out of 2 504 (38 %); chief inspectors: 277 out of 398 (70 %); officers: 195 out of 214 (91 %). Since the introduction of the police zones, the vice-president has not been informed of recruitments to the police, since the language law states that he is responsible for monitoring recruitments in the municipalities and the OCMW. Since the Deputy Governor no longer supervises compliance with language law in recruitment to the police, it is up to the Brussels High Official to supervise this. It must ensure that the recruitment of local police is carried out in accordance with the laws, including the language law. As Minister of the Interior, I can intervene if a governor or the Brussels high-ranking official does not suspend in cases of non-legal recruitment. I ask my services to be informed of any recruitment in a Brussels police area. If a recruitment takes place which does not comply with language legislation, I can suspend it. The cooperation agreement between the Federal Government and the Regions on the organisation of the integrated police at two levels has established a coordination committee convened for, inter alia, decisions which may block the operation of a police zone. I will convene the coordination committee for the Brussels-Capital Region to take the necessary steps to resolve the problem of bilingualism. Finally, the wording of your question suggests that the vice-governor used to have a compulsory power of suspension and destruction, but this is not true. I think you know this, too. From my competence in language law, I see no reason to take an initiative in this. I repeat that the Flemish parties in the Brussels Government have the power and duty to monitor compliance with language laws, including recruitment in police areas. From my competence in police supervision, I will monitor compliance with language laws. I can also repeat what I replied to you on 25 May 2016: let there be no doubt that every law must be complied with, including language legislation. Only the former legislators have failed to include sanctions in that language legislation, we all know that. The best way to achieve the objective in this area is to continue and intensify efforts to promote bilingualism. I do not know whether ill-thought-out action by the supervisory authorities is the right way to do this. Imagine, for example, that we would destroy a number of appointments in Brussels and that we would introduce the most stringent supervision of this, then I would come into conflict with the capacity requirements to ensure security. Take it from me, this is a very difficult consideration. I find it difficult to say that there are too few people on the ground in Brussels because a large number do not have a bilingual attestation. I am therefore asking for an understanding of this situation. It is a question of increasing bilingualism, and there is a premium on that. We must weigh the security situation against your absolutely justified demand for bilingualism, and there must be no doubt about that. The situation is very specific at this time of terrorist threat. We are trying to strike the right balance here; the last thing I want is for security to be compromised. This does not mean that the efforts for bilingualism should not be stepped up; I absolutely want to commit to this.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic684x.u3	Mr President, I would like to thank the Minister for his reply. As long as both investigations are ongoing, you cannot, of course, say anything about them, but the fact that two investigations are ongoing shows, of course, that there is a problem. I'd like to take the numbers with me. The picture was clear: we see a downward line compared to previous years. Apparently, there's no getting better. As I have said, I understand that this is a difficult balance, but the balance is deteriorating, the figures are getting worse and worse. I am not asking you to act rashly, but if you say that you want to commit yourself to stepping up the efforts, you refer to the language premium, and I ask you for concrete measures to make that commitment work. There is still no such thing until today. Recently, there was an opinion from the Standing Committee on Linguistic Monitoring, on a bill which is being discussed here in this committee, which confirms my reasoning: if the controlling authority fails to enforce language legislation, then it is up to the federal government to act in it and take initiatives to adapt the legislation accordingly. So you are absolutely not powerless and it is too easy to shift everything to Brussels. After all, we know from practice that there will be nothing of that willfully.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic684x.u4	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Hedebouw's 17709 will be dealt with in the Committee on Health.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic684x.u5	Mr Blanchart cannot be present.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic684x.u6	Mr President, Minister, I come back to a subject that I have already mentioned in previous questions. On 19 October, I asked you about the threats and acts of vandalism against the member associations of the Fedactio platform, allegedly close to Imam Fethullah Gülen, as well as the schools of the stars of Brussels, Charleroi and Liège. These threats had led some parents of students to unregister their children from these schools for fear of reprisals. As I have already told you, I am not here to defend a political sensitivity or a network of conviction, especially since I have no sympathy for Imam Fethullah Gülen or for any other sensitivity which, in Turkey, would not express our democratic values. It is in the name of the principle of the protection of persons that I intervene. It is not normal for schools, because they are close to a particular political-philosopher, to be subjected to oral, written and physical threats, fire attempts and vandalism. Nor is it normal for Belgium to see the tensions inherent in the political situation in Turkey exported to its territory. However, as the reports released by the press at the beginning of April attest, the purges carried out by the Erdogan regime, after the failed coup d'état on 15 July, continue and clearly target the Turkish diaspora established in Europe. The virulence of these purges and threats has even increased with the campaign linked to the referendum held on 16 April. Of course, it is the responsibility of the municipal authorities and the mayors in particular to ensure the safety of places where persons attached to one or the other political sensitivities may be present. But this responsibility can only be properly assumed if it is supported by clear federal indications. Minister, can you let me know if the OCAM has reassessed the level of threat to Gülenist-inspired schools? In the committee of 19 October, you announced to me that the OCAM had assessed the level of threat at "average", i.e. level 2, while specifying that the situation was constantly being monitored and that a reassessment would be carried out, if necessary, and if further information was available. Have any further vigilance measures been sent or suggested since then to the police areas concerned by the schools at risk, but also by the consulate where Turkish nationals voted on 16 April? I would like to draw your attention to the fact that I tabled my question in April and that it is only dealt with today. With that clarification being made, I come back to my questions. The greatest vigilance had been requested of schools, by OCAM, during the school year, in order to avoid incidents aimed at preventing children from entering their schools. Last October, you felt that the situation had calmed down and that everything was now under control. Do you confirm this assessment, particularly in view of the violent clashes between pro- and anti-Erdogan in front of the Turkish consulate in Brussels on 30 March?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic684x.u7	Mr Maingain, there are a number of officially recognised school institutes in Belgium that can be linked to the Gülen Brotherhood. Shortly after the failed coup d'état in Turkey in July 2016, several incidents were reported in Belgium (vandalism, threats, graffiti, disturbance of public order, etc.) potentially targeting individuals, schools or organisations linked to the Fethullah Gülen movement. The most recent recorded information relates mainly to threats and intimidations published on social networks, mainly Facebook. The identities and addresses of Gülen's sympathising potentials were disseminated, sometimes accompanied by calls to take action against them. It will not always be possible to immediately identify the authors of such messages. However, the context and spirit of these messages suggest that they are mostly published, it seems, by sympathizers of the AKP and/or the Turkish ultra-nationalist movement. Social networks offer a relatively easy platform for spreading radical ideas or threats. A number of these messages are intended primarily to provoke, intimidate or provoke reactions. It remains difficult to estimate the extent to which a published opinion on these networks can actually lead to a change of course. However, the intimidating language and the personal character of many of these messages can be perceived as threatening in the minds of the persons concerned. It should be noted that the Turkish authorities regard the Gülen movement as a terrorist organization directly responsible for the failed coup d'état. Turkish representatives based in Belgium therefore spread potentially polarizing messages. This could result in individuals or groups with a more radical profile or galvanized youth being able to exploit this tense situation in order to move on to harder actions. Our Internet Reference Unit monitors such messages on the Internet to find their origin. Based on all the information currently available, OCAM considers the level of terrorist and/or extremist threat to the Gülen movement in Belgium to be "average". That hasn't changed. It's followed on a day-to-day basis. The proposals for measures have also not changed at this time. Within the police, this file is followed by the Internet Referral Unit as well as the teams on the streets. It is also monitored by the OCAM. It is a phenomenon that is the subject of special attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic684x.u8	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Piedboeuf (S). - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Question No 18026 by Mrs De Coninck will be converted into a written question. Question No 1, by Mr De Pasquale (H-l Mrs Gabriels' 18070, 18071, 18073 and 18074 are converted into written questions. Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Dierick's 18095 is being postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic684x.u9	Deputy Prime Minister, as part of the "Security & Interior" section of your general policy note of October, there was talk of the implementation of a new generation of identity cards. Indeed, a study was carried out in 2016 on the renewal of the current eID card contracts and the opportunities offered by modernisation. The main changes are as follows. First of all, many documents will be expanded, so that e-government will become available to certain groups that currently do not have electronic cards, such as ICT and Mobile ICT cards. An ID-Kids will be granted to non-European nationals. Cards will be issued to foreign non-residents, as well as an option for diplomats and similar individuals. Then security will be enhanced, both for the physical card and for the electronic part. During the performance of the contract, the contract may be further adapted every three years. In addition, the addition of a non-contact chip to an ICCO "appliette", similar to that of passports, will facilitate border control and allow Belgian citizens to use e-Gates in other countries in the future - if they accept the eID card for this purpose. In addition, the application which the municipalities use to apply for and issue Belgian cards will be replaced by a modern internet application, which will allow for greater flexibility in the context of certain adaptations and the generalisation of a new version. Finally, there are plans to move to transactional processing and continuous availability. Therefore, Minister, you will understand, my questions are as follows. Do you have any conclusions from this study? How will you translate them politically? Could you then shed some light on the state of the modernization of the eID? What is the budget allocation for this purpose? How many eIDs are currently in circulation by type? Finally, when do you plan to issue the first modernized ID card? Can you indicate a specific date in this regard?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic684x.u10	Mr Kir, the Council of Ministers on 16 December approved the proposals for new generation identity cards, based on the study you mentioned. The launch of two public procurement contracts by negotiated procedure, with publicity at European level, will enable these proposals to be further developed. A call for candidates took place at the end of 2016. The specifications are being finalized in order to be able to send them to the admitted candidates. To this end, an appropriation of EUR 13.8 million has been included in the 2018 budget of the separate managed State Department responsible for the management of identity cards. For the different types of cards in circulation, these are unannounced cards that have not been declared lost or stolen. Cards that have been cancelled as a result of automatic de-listing or for other reasons, assuming that the card may still be in circulation, have also been included in the figures below. There's 8.4 million eIDs. There's almost a million kids-IDs. I'll send you the list. The first identity card of the new generation is scheduled to be issued in the course of 2019.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic684x.u11	Minister, thank you for your full answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic684x.u12	Mr. President, Minister, compensation to individuals for damage caused by police officers in the performance of their duties must be improved. This is the conclusion of a report by Committee P published at the beginning of May, denouncing the complexity and impreciseness of the matter, and calling for quick solutions to help the victims of collateral police damage in their efforts. Indeed, Committee P wishes that there should be a contact person in each police service to assist the injured person in obtaining compensation. Thus, it encourages, like the European accident report which is completed in the event of a road accident, the fact that the police officer who caused the damage draws up an administrative report in which he describes how the damage occurred. For certain types of damage, Panel P denounces "a great inaccuracy" with regard to the proceeding that will compensate. Should the injured person apply to the FPSJustice? At the Interior FPS? At the commune? To the police area? To put an end to these inaccuracies, Committee P calls for the development of a uniform formal procedure through a ministerial circular or a circular from the College of Attorneys General. Thus, it is also a matter of clarifying the task of the police and prosecutors. Minister, do you share the conclusions of the report denouncing "a great inaccuracy" with regard to the proceeding that will compensate and call for the development of a uniform formal procedure? What steps are you planning to take to address the issues raised in the above-mentioned report? How long? Do you agree with this recommendation in the report on the wish of a contact person to assist the injured person in obtaining compensation? If so, what steps will you take to improve police awareness of this issue and within what time frame? Otherwise, what is your position?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic684x.u13	Mr President, Minister, third-party claims against federal police staff were 231 in 2014, 239 in 2015 and 203 last year. That is clear from a written reply from you. For the compensation payments, the data are the following: 762 692 euros in 2014, 649 833 euros in 2015 and 490 136 euros last year. Last year, EUR 7 103 was recovered from a staff member who had caused damage by committing an infringement of the Road Code. This amount relates to the total damage suffered. The fact that a small minority is recovered in proportion to the amounts paid is still due, according to your written reply, to the fact that recovery can only be effected if there are three possible conditions, namely a serious error, a deliberate error and a repeated minor error which occurs repeatedly within a relatively short period of time. These three situations are rare. Moreover, the State is not obliged to recover any of these errors. The decision always depends on the concrete elements of the file. The P Committee recently published a report on its investigation into the way police services deal with the handling of damages in response to their actions. Some recommendations are made. As has already been said by my colleague, it is proposed that a contact person should be appointed to guide people and lead them to compensation for their damage. As regards the damage, there should also be clarification as to who transfers the necessary information to the FPS Justice and the injured police officer should draw up an administrative report describing how the damage was caused. I have a few questions in this regard. Firstly, an average of EUR 734,000 per year has been paid out over the last three years as compensation. Do you have more detailed information on this matter? If so, could you possibly deliver them to me? Secondly, what is your response to the recommendations of the P Committee? What initiatives are you considering?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic684x.u14	Mrs Lahaye-Battheu, your first question is about obtaining figures, but the time allocated to oral questions is short. We can get those figures, but not in such a short period of time. If you wish to submit the question in writing again, we will find out and make the figures available to you. You may know that the number of material damage files is in principle much higher than the number of physical damage files, fortunately. It is true that the amounts of compensation for physical damage are always higher. The number of cases is therefore lower, but the amounts are higher. I have taken note of the report of Committee P and have decided to set up a working group to ensure that the current procedure is uniform, through the drafting of a circular, co-signed by the Minister of Justice and myself, which sets out the main guidelines, as recommended by Committee P. The recommendations of Committee P will therefore be included in a uniform procedure. The issue of the point of contact will also be part of this circular. The first meeting of this working group was held on Friday, 28 April 2017. A second meeting was held on 12 May, during which the general principles underlying the drafting of the circular were discussed. For the record, it is intended to define a clear and rapid procedure for the compensation of the third party involved. The next meeting of this working group will be held tomorrow, 8 June. You see that the pace of work is quite high; our goal is to achieve it quickly, but don't ask me to set a date already. Work is under way.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic684x.u15	Mr President, the Minister's answers seem clear to me. I will of course come back to him after the holidays to know the status of the case. Thank you, Minister, for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic684x.u16	Thank you, Minister, for your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic684x.u17	Mr President, Minister, the abbreviation WABP stands for WhatsApp NeighborhoodPrevention. WABP was founded on 1 June 2015 and is a digital citizens' initiative. The police will only take action if a 911 call is made. More than 6 800 WABP groups have now registered in the Netherlands and Belgium. The site wabp.nl offers a structure that prevents ten different initiatives from happening along each other or approaching the district agent in one street. You yourself see WhatsApp as a communication tool that can strengthen and improve communication within a BIN. You will find them very important and support you wherever possible. In your opinion, it is the task of local authorities to see which communication tool is being used. You also noted that guidelines for the use of social media in the context of prevention and civic participation are currently being developed, including for the use of WhatsApp in the neighbourhood information networks. I have four questions about this. Firstly, can you outline the legal framework within which digital neighbourhood prevention can function today via WhatsApp? What can't and what can't? Secondly, do you consider the participation of the police in these groups necessary? Thirdly, do you insist that it is the task of the local authorities to see which communication tool is being used? Or do you see a role for the federal government? If so, which one? Fourthly, would you like to report on the state of play of the directives on the use of social media in the context of prevention and citizen participation?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic684x.u18	Mr President, Mrs Lahaye-Battheu, a BIN is a structured partnership between the local authorities, the police and the citizens within a particular neighbourhood, with the aim of exchanging information according to a pre-defined communication plan, which focuses on mutual exchange of information. The rapid and effective exchange of information between all interested parties requires a good organisation, which means that each BIN must be able to decide how best to communicate with each other. Only a general framework is provided from the federal government, but the actual communication plan is further developed by each individual BIN. In the context of prevention and civic participation, my administration is working on the chalk lines of a renewed letter concerning the BIN. It takes account of the new technologies and provides scope for the use of different media, including WhatsApp as a possible means of communication, but only to the extent that this is done within the regulatory framework of the BIN debt instruments. In the context of the BINS, the processing of personal data via social media is subject to the law of 8 December 1992 on the protection of privacy in relation to the processing of personal data. This law applies to any fully or partially automated processing of personal data, as it is not solely for personal or household purposes. For the purposes of this law, the dissemination of photocopiers or other personal data relating to a person suspected, for example, of theft, constitutes a processing of judicial personal data. However, Article 8 of the Act on the Protection of Privacy is very clear. I quote paragraph 1: "The processing of personal data relating to disputes submitted to courts and courts as well as administrative courts, as regards suspicions, prosecutions or convictions relating to offences, or administrative sanctions or security measures, shall be prohibited." Exceptions are provided for, but none of them currently apply to the BIN debt instruments. The dissemination of images or of the identity of suspicious persons by this means is therefore clearly problematic within the current legal framework. The distribution of images under a BIN can only be considered through the police after agreement of the public prosecutor. This also applies in the case of so-called closed groups to the extent that it exceeds the personal and domestic framework and does not concern a dispute specific to these persons. I am fully aware that technological developments pose additional challenges for citizens' privacy. At the same time, we must also bear in mind the positive aspects of these developments. A good balance must always be struck between the two. I will consult with my competent colleagues to see whether the current provisions in the privacy legislation do not prevent the further development of BIN initiatives. I have clearly outlined what can and above all cannot be done within the current legal framework.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic684x.u19	Minister, the answer is clear and important. As you said, a good balance must be found and maintained. However, in these times of increasing social media and spread, this is under pressure. I'll follow up on the case. The BINALs remain very important and should be able to play on the ball very briefly, of course with respect for our laws.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic684x.u20	Minister, a lot of false passports were found in Greek refugee camps last year. Newsmonkey, the internet news site, already noted in 2015 that it is apparently quite easy to obtain a Belgian or another European passport, whether or not in a package deal with driver's license and identity card. Cost for a passport that would pass a simple visual check was between 500 and 1 000 euros. A passport with biometrics needed to cross Schengen borders would have a much higher cost. At the beginning of this year, as a blow to the flames, it became clear that a former civil servant in Brussels would also have traded at least one false passport. False passports have been linked to Syrian warriors lately. Interpol also pointed out this problem. It is certain that false passports and false identity cards are always accompanied by illegal acts and criminal activities, therefore not only in relation to IS and Syrian fighters. I have a series of questions. Does the Minister have any indication of the number of false Belgian, false European and false non-European passports in circulation? Do you have any figures on this? How big is the size of other fake identity cards, such as driving licences, which are in circulation? Is it known where those fake passports and IDs were created? How were the fake passports and IDs mainly brought to light? Have any passports or identity cards been stolen from city halls or other government buildings in recent years, as has happened in the past? What measures does the government take against the presence of false passports and false identity cards?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic684x.u21	Mr. Chairman, Mr.Minister, the question obviously relates to the same subject. There are 1,755 falsified identity papers that were intercepted in 2016, which is a rather worrying figure. As my colleague has said, this also reminds us of the use made of it, for terrorist acts such as we have known or various frauds such as social fraud, illegal migration and fraud. We must therefore fight this. How many federal police officers are involved in the detection of these false documents? It is known that falsifications are becoming more and more effective, and increasingly difficult to detect. How many documents were intercepted in 2017? What are the forecasts that can be expected? Have networks of counterfeiters been lifted? In 2016, how much is the profit of criminal organisations due to this lucrative activity?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic684x.u22	Mr.President, Mr.Minister, as my colleagues have indicated, 1,755 forged identity papers were reportedly intercepted during 2016, an average of 146 cases per month. Clearly, we can welcome the work done by the various security services. The extent of these seizures is an issue. In this regard, I quote a federal police official who testified in the media: "We are seeing an increase in the number of real identity cards obtained through fraudulent statements. This activity remains lucrative, as prices range from €200 to €300 to €2,000 to €3,000. It is also possible to obtain a package, i.e. an identity card accompanied by a driver's licence and a passport. False documents will never disappear, as they serve all kinds of criminal purposes such as social fraud, illegal migration, fraud or terrorism. So it's a priority for the police." Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, what is the extent of this problem at the moment? According to the information at your disposal, what is the trend observed in recent years? On the other hand, with regard to the work done by the security services, what are the technical and human resources planned for this year to strengthen their capacity for action?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic684x.u23	Mr. Chairman, the federal police have a specialized anti-false document service called OCRF-D. It is located within the Central Directorate of Technical and Scientific Police. It has recently been equipped with new technical detection equipment to meet the needs expressed. This service has eight out of the twelve planned. Recruitment of a staff member is ongoing, while a retirement is scheduled for August 1, 2017. In 2016, the OCRF-D conducted an analysis of 33,569 identity and travel documents under the Europe procedure – a circular of 2 June 2015 on combating the fraudulent use of identity or travel documents issued or imitated by EU Member States – 2,600 identity and travel documents for OCRF-D police or non-police partners in administrative or judicial proceedings, and 7,260 driving permits under the foreign driving licence exchange procedure as determined by the Mobility SPF. The service shall have all the technical means necessary to carry out its tasks. Mr Vermeulen, I can answer your first question as follows. In 2016, the following number of passports were withdrawn from circulation at Belgian border posts: 13 Belgian fraudulent passports, 218 European fraudulent passports and 210 non-European fraudulent passports. Moreover, in 2016 even 543 fraudulent passports were withdrawn from circulation in Belgium. For this category we are not in possession of a classification by nationality. In response to Mr Calomne's first question and Ms Jadin's second question, between January 1, 2017 and April 30, 2017, OCRF-D detected 199 fraudulent passports and 183 fraudulent identity cards, all nationalities. In addition, during the same period, the Belgian border posts intercepted 148 fraudulent passports and 135 fraudulent identity cards, also of all nationalities. The trend in recent years can be summed up as follows: Belgium, like most European countries, has, for the past 15 years or so, tried to improve the quality of its identity and travel documents. We are talking about identity cards, residence permits and passports. This effort was necessary in view of the number of counterfeits and falsifications of Belgian documents intercepted in the past. This technological security and the endorsement of the identity chain, i.e. these documents, has produced two consequences. The first is that the amount of falsified and counterfeit documents in Belgium is declining. Moreover, the theft of fraudulently filled blank Belgian documents is a phenomenon that has disappeared. The quality of counterfeits and falsifications of Belgian documents, on the other hand, has increased. The second consequence is the increase in the phenomenon of fraudulently obtained documents. Indeed, the security of the endorsement of the identity chain referred to above means that fraudsters are increasingly attacking themselves upstream of the identity chain, i.e. the procedures for issuing documents in our communes and consulates, where they are trying to obtain authentic documents by means of fraudulent manoeuvres. It was, among other things, to stem this problem that a circular on the fight against identity fraud was issued on 27 May 2016. Apart from the problem of fraudulent Belgian documents, our country, like all European countries, is faced with the use of fraudulent identity and travel documents of foreign origin, either for the purpose of entering the territory or for the purpose of establishing itself there. I come to your second question, Mr Vermeulen. In 2016, a total of 771 fraudulent identity cards were withdrawn from circulation. I come to your third question. False or forged passports or identity cards are created in Belgium or abroad by criminal groups which have developed a specific technical speciality for this purpose. As far as your fourth question is concerned, fraudulent documents come to light mainly as a result of border controls, checks carried out internally by police or other law enforcement agencies, or when registered in a municipality. Furthermore, fraudulent documents are seized in the context of judicial investigations into criminal groups involved in their creation before they can be put into circulation. This is the answer to your fifth question. The ANG is a police database in which the facts are recorded on the basis of minutes resulting from the missions of the judicial and administrative police. On the basis of that database, we can therefore carry out censuses. I have a table here that I'll transfer to you. In it you will find the number of police-registered theft and extortion offences in which an identity card or passport was stolen, with the purpose or place of a administrative building, as recorded in the ANG on the basis of records at national level. This table covers the period, year per year, from 2012 to 2015 and the first three trimesters of 2016. The data come from the database closure of 20 January 2017. You will get the subdivision, but I can tell you that it concerns a total of 105 in 2012, 74 in 2013, 115 in 2014 and 74 in 2015. The fight against identity fraud in general, and fraudulent documents in particular, is a priority within the National Security Plan and the Framework Paper Integrated Security 2016-2019 and enjoys a comprehensive, preventive and repressive approach. In addition, a letter was published on 27 May 2016 entitled "The coordinated approach to preventing and combating identity fraud at federal and local level'. Following this, information sessions were provided to reference officials identity fraud, in our municipalities. Finally, in reply to Ms Jadin, I would point out that the federal police do not have a comprehensive view of the criminal revenues generated by this activity in our territory.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic684x.u24	Thank you, Minister, for your very full answer. Although it is becoming increasingly technically difficult to make identity cards and IDs, the well-organised gangs always manage to do so. This means that the challenge is very special. Despite the efforts of the police and despite the number of false evidence that has been received, we still have a great deal of work to do. I can see that with a specialized training course and with the letters of conversion it is indeed being carried out. I am certainly satisfied and I hope that the results will bear even more fruit.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic684x.u25	Minister, thank you for your very detailed answers. Like you, I think there's a lot more sexy in the police than the name you just mentioned. I also note the importance you attach to the reinvestment and strengthening of this cell, in order to make the techniques of detecting falsification of identity documents following digitalisation and digitisation more effective, and I congratulate you on that. I encourage you in your work, because the task is not easy and I am glad to see that the means are being used to stem this phenomenon.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic684x.u26	Mr President, like my colleagues, I thank the Deputy Prime Minister for his answer and for the various statistics he has presented to us. We encourage it to continue along this path with a view to achieving encouraging results.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic684x.u27	Minister, the circular of 21 August 2015 encouraged cities and municipalities to establish Local Integrated Safety Cells (LIVC). However, this circular letter does not indicate what such a LIVC should look like. In its theme issue of Besafe in June 2016, the General Directorate for Safety and Prevention provided additional information on this issue. In your previous question, you referred to the Integrated Security Framework Paper. In the Framework Paper on Integrated Security 2016-2019, a strategic objective also explicitly foresees supporting and strengthening the local task forces and encouraging the establishment of Local Integrated Safety Cells. You communicated on this subject last month, of course, following an international meeting and expressed your wish that a LIVC would be set up in each municipality. How many LIVCs have been established by now? You said this would happen in about half the municipalities. How many are there? In which cities and municipalities did this happen? Have some cities or municipalities explicitly stated that they do not wish to participate? If so, what was their justification? How do these LIVCs receive funding from the federal government and possibly from other governments? How many local task forces have been established by now? In which cities and municipalities did this happen? How do the LIVCs relate to the local task forces? Does every municipality with a LIVC also have a local task force and vice versa? How is the functioning of the LIVCs and of the local task forces provisionally assessed? Are there any bottlenecks in legislation or in the organisation that still need to be overcome?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic684x.u28	Mr President, Minister, this is not the first time that we have had an exchange of views on the LIVCs. You know that from the beginning, even before the publication, but also afterwards, I am very convinced of the usefulness of the LIVCs. After all, I am convinced that radicalism is best followed at local level. I have checked, and we have had six exchanges of views on this subject in public meetings and in the Chamber, including in public. You also know my impatience about this, because I see that a lot of people are putting a lot of energy into it in certain places, but that nothing is actually happening in a number of places. I just read that Minister Homans in the Flemish Parliament also started a discussion on the LIVCs. It turns out that you are working on a proposal to oblige the LIVCs in all cities. That's a little along the lines of the communication you've made yourself. However, certain mayors point out that one should also be aware that returned Syrian fighters or other radicalised people very often move, precisely in order to escape a form of succession. That is a phenomenon that we all know very well. Sometimes it makes me hopeless to find that certain local authorities do not find it their responsibility or do not have the capacity and resources to follow it very closely. However, current events show that I am exaggerating a little bit of an attack in the world, in the rest of Europe, and time and again the question arises as to how, in the name of God, people who are familiar with the police can escape sight. I am just saying, Minister, to point out that I am more than ever a party asking you to do what you decided two years ago, in August 2015. A return letter must be complied with. It's as simple as that. That's how our architecture works. So I am very surprised that you are now saying that you want to oblige the LIVCs, almost two years after date. A debrief, Minister, must be respected. In that context, moreover, I once advocated the appointment of a government commissioner to help achieve this where there are resistance or problems. So the question is what obligation are you working on? How will you implement it stronger? How will you ensure that the LIVC debt securities are generalised? I do not wish to comment on the suggestions made by your spokesman on this matter, Minister. He mentioned who all had to be in it and said that the LIVC members should meet on a monthly basis. I can assure you that there are more than monthly meetings in certain places. That's sometimes out of bitter necessity. In what way will you implement it? In what way will you ensure that one does not escape sight so easily, simply by changing address? In other words, how are we going to achieve the exchange? I am also talking about the cross-regional exchange, particularly in the light of the Brussels context? That's one of my biggest concerns. There is little advice needed to know that the capital is one of the Achilles tendons, if not the Achilles tendons. How will we ensure that the information that exists there is also shared in order to track people moving from one municipality to another or from one region to another?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic684x.u29	Minister, I would like to join with the questions that have already been asked about the Local Integrated Safety Cells, including the remark from some cities and municipalities that it would be more useful to work at police level. In practice, there are police zones with several municipalities that have created one LIVC. At strategic level, work is carried out at the level of the police area, but the operational level is organised by the municipality. I would also like an overview of the municipalities that already have a Local Security Cell. Are there any regions that lag behind? Where are additional efforts needed? How is the consultation with the regions already referred to? What is your response to the view of some mayors that this is better organised at police level?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic684x.u30	In the meantime, Mrs. Jadin is apologized, although she may return later.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic684x.u31	Mr President, as regards the question of the number of LIVCs in Belgium, I can tell you that we know 284 municipalities with a LIVC. There are 170 municipalities without LIVC, but there may be a foundation there. We have not yet received any information on 135 municipalities. If one looks at the distribution by region, there are 213 of 284 LIVCs in Flanders, 56 in Wallonia and 15 in Brussels. Fifteen of the nineteen Brussels municipalities therefore have a LIVC. When one looks at the provincial classification, there are 65 LIVCs in Antwerp out of a total of 70 municipalities, Hainaut 10 out of 69, Limburg 40 out of 44, Liège 30 out of 84, Luxembourg 7 out of 44, Namur 1 out of 38, East Flanders 43 out of 65, Flemish-Brabant 34 out of 65, Walloon-Brabant 8 out of 27 and West Flanders 31 out of 64. These figures were generated by bringing together different sources. For example, in June 2016, a survey was sent from Home Affairs about the creation of LIVC debt securities to all mayors in Belgium. In addition, we work with various partner organisations, such as the OCAD and the provinces, to bring together all the information about the creation of LIVC. In April 2017, all DirCos were also written with the same question. The updating of the LIVC data is continuously under way. Based on the latest information, the LIVC overview will be made publicly available on the website www.besafe.be. On that site the evolution can also be followed. All municipalities are also invited to update the existing information on the existence or non-existence of a LIVC via an online form. The aim is to create a dynamic database so as to be able to offer as up-to-date a picture as possible of all LIVCs. Mr Vermeulen, the circular foreign terrorist fighters did not impose an obligation on the cities and municipalities to start a LIVC. I therefore note that there are municipalities that have not yet established LIVC. On the basis of the round question to mayors, we have received some justifications as to why LIVC has not been established in certain cases. Just as there are many differences in the composition and functioning of the LIVCs, it can be noted that the reasons why a LIVC is not started are very diverse. An important and common motivation is the absence of foreign terrorist fighters on the territory of the municipality. Since the letter focuses on five categories, not all municipalities have resident persons covered by these categories. We were also able to establish other reasons for this, such as an existing security consultation other than a LIVC, the lack of financial resources, a small or national municipality, the competence of the police and so on. We note, however, that many municipalities join forces in a zonal or supralocal Integrated Safety Cell. The motivation to establish a supralocal LIVC which often coincides with the territory of the zone is different. The main motivation for a municipality to operate supralocally is the low number of foreign terrorist fighters or other worrying situations of radicalisation in the municipality. In many cases, it is also more efficient for municipalities to have such consultations conducted at supralocal level, for practical reasons and to limit the number of meetings. It is important not to lose sight of the core, in particular the direction of the mayors and cooperation with civil society. Mr Bonte, following a comparison of the consolidated list of foreign terrorist fighters with the preliminary results of the survey carried out by the General Directorate of Security and Prevention, we have to observe that there are indeed a number of municipalities where foreign fighters reside..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... There are two options: either these municipalities have not yet responded to the question of whether or not they have set up a LIVC, or they could be part of a zonal Integrated Safety Cell. It concerns a number of smaller municipalities in Wallonia. Mr Vermeulen, the Home Office supports cities and municipalities in developing policies to combat violent radicalisation. Fifteen pilot communities received a one-off grant in 2015 in the context of the prevention of violent radicalisation, which expires in 2017. These cities were encouraged to develop prevention projects that could be taken over by other cities and municipalities. These cities had an obligation to establish a LIVC. In addition, a recurring grant of €60 000 is granted to different cities and municipalities to support actions to combat violent radicalisation. 109 cities and municipalities then have a strategic safety and prevention plan, with financial support from the federal government. These cities have the opportunity to use some of these resources for measures to prevent violent radicalisation. If they so wish, they may use part of this budget to set up and maintain a LIVC. Finally, in 2016, a mobile team of the FPS Interior Department was established to provide support and advice to cities and municipalities in their fight against violent radicalisation. This mobile team is composed of one Islamologist and three criminologists. They temporarily support cities and municipalities in their security and prevention policies. Meanwhile, some thirty cities and municipalities have already called on the mobile team. In their assignment, a large proportion of applications relate to the creation and support of a LIVC. This service is offered free of charge to cities and municipalities wishing to use the mobile team by applying to mob.team@ibz.fgov.be. Mr Vermeulen, I come to your fourth question. The establishment of an LTF as included in the Radicalism Action Plan is oriented towards the territory of the current judicial arrondissements; i.e. LIVCs at municipal or zonal level and an LTF at the level of the judicial arrondissement. So that means 12. The structure of an LTF includes a strategic component and an operational component. The strategic LTF is organised at the level of the district, the operational LTF is organised on a smaller scale. A LTF can actually be considered as the safety component in the structure, while a LIVC includes the relief, aftercare and the socio-preventive actors. Within the LTF, it is actually determined whether an entity is a security issue. If so, it will be followed up further by the security services and will be examined in a joint consultation on what measures can be taken appropriately. If not, and therefore the entity does not pose a safety problem, it can be followed by the LIVC. The reverse direction of course also applies. Currently, not all municipalities and cities have a LIVC. This sometimes means that the local task force, through the local police, has to look for the relevant socio-preventive actors in order to take care of an entity. The functioning of the LTFs is evaluated as being very positive within the structure of the Radicalism Action Plan in strategic direction from the National Task Force to the various LTFs, in such a way that, without limiting the local initiative, there is more or less uniformity. I've determined that myself. I've visited some of those LTFs, five or six, in the three regions. That operation is more or less uniform. It's gonna be okay. There is also a very serious case by case follow-up. The operation of the LIVCs is still in the early stages, in the sense that their creation is still in the early stages of several cities and municipalities. A concrete evaluation is therefore still a little premature. In order to assist cities and municipalities and provide guidance, a blueprint for the LIVCs is currently being prepared. This should provide the mayor with the necessary tools to organise such a platform. In addition, there is the possibility that the mayor may have recourse to a mobile team, I have just explained that the mayor can assist in the organisation. As a main point, a legal anchoring or obligation of a LIVC appears to be a legal gap. The necessary steps are still being taken in this context. Moreover, it also seems useful to have a description, a framework, on the sharing of information within that platform. I can tell you that I am currently considering whose authority it is to impose this obligation. After all, that is not entirely clear. What is the role of the Regions in this? We're looking at it legally before I can make a legal commitment, but that's the intention. Finally, Mr Bonte, with regard to your explicit question as to what a Region can do to ensure that a LIVC is actually established, I must refer you to the Regions. We are investigating that ourselves legally. I don't have an answer to that right now. On the other hand, since the end of 2015, the Communities and the Regions have been effectively part of the National Task Force of the Radicalism Action Plan. From this platform there is therefore regular consultation. In addition, it is currently considering the legal basis in which a LIVC can be anchored. A specific Inter-Kabinette consultation with the Länder will also be launched. In parallel, the OCAD tests the prepared guide LIVC, the blueprint, with the Länder through the national task force and a bilateral consultation. Mr Bonte, in relation to your specific question on moving movements, I think that the LTF is the appropriate body for this. That information must then flow to the LIVC. We may, of course, have the ambition to follow everything, but I think the LTFs are best placed to keep an eye on these moving movements, and you are right to allow the information to flow to the LIVC. To sum up, we started it. We have done so on a voluntary basis. I think that the experience with the LIVCs is that we need to structure them more, firstly, we are taking initiatives on this and, secondly, we need to look at how we can legally impose them. We must consider whether this can be done via the federal government or whether it should be done in consultation with the regions. I will not hide the fact that the picture of the various regions is completely different in this respect. Flanders and Brussels are good pupils in this area. Wallonia, however, still has a lot of catching up to do.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic684x.u32	Thank you, Minister, it is certainly not my custom to ask for figures through an oral question, but thank you for the figures I have received. Following on from your last point, to your general conclusion: that there is a big difference between Flanders, Brussels and Wallonia, the figures in answer to my first question do indeed appear in the figures. You've been very thorough. You will indeed start with the municipalities that feel the most necessary. The question is, of course, to what extent you must or can carry it through. To what extent will a good result be achieved in the event of an obligation? I take note of the fact that there is a great deal of doubt about the legal anchoring and, where appropriate, the obligation, and also about who will have the exact power to implement it.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic684x.u33	I would also like to thank the Minister for his comprehensive reply. I believe, Minister, that steps must indeed be taken. When I hear you, it's a little pulling and dragging and working on a consciousness and a safety culture about it. I would also like to point out that the purely formal aspect of the matter that you are obliged to do as a federal government is one aspect; what happens in practice, quality assurance, is another. I'd like to illustrate that. I know a LIVC, one of the fifteen, where they do anything but go over the list of OCAD. If it's just the point of talking about it between the mayor, the chief of police, and a few more people... that escapes a little from your grasp, but it's a reality. The quality of those LIVCs is just as important as the numbers. I want to nuance that for a bit; the numbers are an indicator, but what happens is perhaps even more important. Secondly, you referred to the efforts made by the federal government, including in a number of experimental cities, including those for which I am responsible. There is also a commitment from the local cities and I can assure you that we have many questions from other governments, from smaller municipalities in the Rand, also from abroad, to share our expertise. Something we need to do, which may also involve a sense of responsibility. I think we can learn from each other in all respects. To conclude, it basically means that in the LIVC's blueprint the commitment must be linked to a motivation to do it. The trick is to focus exclusively on the persons on an OCAD list. I know how many people in Vilvoorde are on an OCAD list and I know how many people we're following. This has to do with commitment and ambition, as well as capacity and opportunities. The federal level has taken its responsibilities by giving an impetus, but I will end with a true plea when your blueprint is finished, so try to convince the Regions and the Communities that they are investing in it, because it is a lot of work if we meet twice a week and have to take care of the follow-up. The Brussels, Flemish and Walloon regions must also invest in a form of prevention, which should lead to a much wider follow-up than those who are already, in a manner of speaking, known in detail to our security services. In my view, this is one of the most crucial challenges facing us, given our complex structure of competence. Now one must find who is responsible for what. I'm gonna have to explain it again tomorrow abroad. We must now find out who is responsible for following up radicalisation and working with young people and prisoners, for example. It is a complex country in the field of security. Indeed, I note that the Flemish government, like the Brussels and Walloon authorities, is not in a position to cooperate with the federal government in supporting the local integrated security policy, and that is crucial, in my view, because there are also levels of policy such as Education, Social Affairs, Sport and Youth. That is the battle we face.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic684x.u34	Mr Bonte, first of all, when I just referred to the powers, that was in the context of the question of who can make this compulsory, if we introduce legislation: the federal government or the regions. It is not so much about who is responsible for prevention policy, because we know that. It's about who could impose such a LIVC. Secondly, I think it should also be very clear in the blueprint and in the assignments we give the LIVCs, that they should, as far as possible, ensure that the OCAD list does not thicken. They must, of course, follow who is on the OCAD list.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic684x.u35	Or sometimes being corrected.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic684x.u36	That, too. Anyway, I would like to say that people who might end up on the OCAD list eventually do not end up there because of the functioning of the LIVCs. The LIVCs should therefore not be limited to those we have already included on the OCAD list; they should also monitor other signals to ensure that people do not get to the OCAD list.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic684x.u37	Mr. Secretary, I'd like to illustrate it. With regard to the joint ambition to ensure that the OCAD list does not increase, we really need to make the regions aware that, for example, they need to review youth sanctions law urgently. If we continue to allow a form of impunity for forms of juvenile crime, we may still set up 36 LIVCs, but we will not be able to do so. The same applies to youth aid. In other words, if the policy objectives are to be followed, the Communities and the Regions must also be involved. That is what I mean by the commitment one must have.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic684x.u38	I also agree with you, Mr Bonte.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic684x.u39	Yes, we are having the same discussion as here and we are pointing to Mr Jambon, who has to solve it all.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic684x.u40	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Piedboeuf's 17879 is converted into a written question, contrary to what I have just said. Questions Nos 18176 and 18077 by Mrs Jadin are also converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic684x.u41	Mr President, Minister, I would like to ask you about the new conditions that date from 16 January 2017 concerning the implementation of the renewal of identity cards for Belgians and foreigners. The photograph taken on all identity and travel documents for Belgians and residence documents for foreigners must comply with certain standards. This new procedure involves the standardization and simplification of procedures for municipalities, the same photo acceptance criteria for all identity documents – hence, in principle, more clarity for citizens – and must aim at a more effective fight against identity fraud and a more automated comparison of the photo with the holder of the document during certain border controls. For citizens wearing glasses, the texts transmitted to the communes, of which I know, say: "The eyes must be fully visible through the glasses. They must in no way be hidden by the frame or the glasses. The reflections in the lenses or on the frame should be avoided as far as possible. If this proves impossible, the person must remove his or her glasses." This last part of the sentence seems to be interpreted radically by some municipalities. In Brabant Wallon, my constituency, the municipality of Jodoigne would systematically refuse photos of citizens with glasses. In concrete terms, photographers in this region who are solicited by citizens must ask their customers if it is a photo for Jodoigne or for another neighbouring municipality, as the other municipalities do not practice this selective sorting. I am somewhat surprised by this situation, because all citizens should see their application for renewal of identity cards processed according to the same rules. This brings me, Minister, to a number of reflections. Have you implemented a pilot experiment in Jodoigne in Walloon Brabant or in other municipalities? If so, can you give us more details? Since the implementation of this renewal, have federal services conducted an evaluation of the new provisions in place? If, behind the attitude of the communal services of Jodoigne, it appears that there are technical difficulties, as has been mentioned, in particular for the digitisation of the photos by the communes, would it not be more appropriate to provide for new materials, in order to avoid placing the communal officials in inextricable situations rather than letting the arbitrariness take over and bring about differential treatment between the different communes of the Kingdom? Knowing that every Belgian must be treated in the same way for the issuance of the identity card, I wonder about the proper respect of legal conditions in the issuance of identity cards in Jodoigne. Persons wearing glasses and who are systematically asked to re-make a photo without glasses, so that the identity card can be issued to them, are clearly subject to an excess of administrative formalism. Do these people have an identity card that is consistent with their appearance? Are these identity cards consistent with the spirit and letter of the legal provisions in force in our country? At the very least, these questions deserve serious attention from your services to the situation in this commune and, if new computer systems are needed to respond to the difficulties encountered by the local authorities, a concrete response must be considered.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic684x.u42	Mr Crusnière, given the widespread introduction of the electronic core document in 2017 and in order to meet international standards and standards in the control of identity and travel documents, the photograph taken on all identity and travel documents for Belgians and residence documents for foreigners must, in fact, comply with the standards agreed by the International Civil Aviation Organisation (ICAO) and ISO/IEC 19794-5 since 16 January 2017. The municipalities were informed by circular dated 21 December 2016. On the same date, this circular was also sent to the National Association of Professional Photographers to inform photographers about the new standards in force. The criteria for acceptance of the photo are now the same for all identity and travel documents for Belgians and residence documents for foreigners, hence, as an added value for citizens, more clarity and savings, since photos with international standards can be used for identity cards and passports. The unique photo matrix for identity and travel documents for Belgians and residence documents, reproduced in the annex to the above circular, clearly states in paragraph 9 that it is permissible to wear glasses on the photo (example in support), subject to certain conditions, including the main ones that you state in your question, namely that the eyes must be fully visible through the glasses. They must in no way be hidden by the frame or the glasses. The reflections in the lenses or on the frames shall be avoided as far as possible. There are also certain derogations for physical or medical reasons. This is point 10 of the photo matrix. The photo of a holder of an identity or travel document should therefore not be systematically refused if the conditions set out in the photo matrix are met. My services have contacted the municipal administration of Jodoigne, in order to recall the regulations in force. An internal instruction will be given to ensure that it is scrupulously respected in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic684x.u43	Minister, thank you for your response and for your intervention in the administration of Jodoigne.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic684x.u44	Debates of the European Parliament 18305 by Mrs Ben Hamou will be converted into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament Mr de Lamotte's 18326 was withdrawn. Debates of the European Parliament Question No 18347 by Mrs Jadin will be converted into a written question, as will Question No 18347 by Mrs Jadin. 18366 by Mr Demon.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic684x.u45	Mr Minister, you have certainly seen, through the press, that a controversy, at the start of a programme proposed by the RTBF, has arisen in the Couvin region following the wearing, by a policeman, of a badge representing the Cross of Templars. I will not intervene in particular on Couvin's case. I am a member of the police college and we have followed up on this situation, as it should be, but I will speak in general on the interpretation that can be given to this type of shield. In this case (the Templar Cross), some consider that there may be a gothic connotation. Some so-called far-right movements would use this emblem, but other interpretations can be given to this symbol. Some consider it a clumsy historical allusion, even a provocation for people of Muslim faith, since this symbol evokes crusades. The fault was recognized by the police officer. The badge was withdrawn immediately and the police college punished the police officer who, I think, accepted the sanction proportionate to the fact. This leads me to ask you two types of questions. First of all, at the beginning of this case, one realizes that there are within local police personnel (at the federal level, I cannot say so) a number of police officers wearing badges, badges, pins or other symbols of various kinds, which seems to be commonplace. This is a question of shields that would not be problematic in terms of interpretation but Sud Presse has given a number of examples of shields representing a gargoyle, a puma, an owl, a scorpion, etc. These elements are not even elements of identification of a complete police zone, but often of a service within a police zone. Not to mention ethics, the question is that of the neutrality of the agents, of the forces of law and order. Apart from these gargoyles and other non-problematic badges, I am no longer talking about the Order of Templars, but there is, and this surprised me by digging up the subject, much more aggressive symbols that would exist or be worn by uniformed policemen, for example an Arabic acronym meaning "unfaithful" or another "God judges our enemies." Let's organize the meeting!" These slogans are really aggressive and express, on the one hand, an opinion and, on the other hand, can provoke confrontation which seems to me to be contradictory with the missions and values of the police. It is not a question of creating confrontation, but rather of appeasing minds and ensuring the serenity of exchanges. Minister, are you aware of the wearing of such badges, badges, logos on police uniforms in local police or at the federal police? Compared to more problematic shields referring to the far right or other, do you know of such facts? Have any investigations been conducted within the police? Would these investigations have, in some cases, resulted in sanctions? Finally, in relation to this type of talk, those who pose difficulties or others, what is your philosophy and that of the police to guarantee to the police the neutrality that must be his with regard to the whole population?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic684x.u46	Mr Delizée, the provisions relating to the wearing of uniforms and distinctive signs are contained in the Royal Decree of 10 June 2006 on the uniform of the integrated two-tiered police, as well as in the Ministerial Decree of 15 June 2006 on basic equipment and general functional equipment of members of the operational framework of the integrated two-tiered police. In addition, Circular GPI 65 of 27 February 2009 on basic equipment and general functional equipment for members of the two-tiered integrated police operational framework states very explicitly in Annex D that "the wearing of distinctive signs on uniforms shall be avoided as far as possible. In this respect, distinctive signs are, in principle, reserved for the recognition of a specialized function, e.g. the quality of motorcyclists, dog handlers, riders, etc. or of a quality, e.g. parachute certificate, etc. In addition, this sign must be authorized and made available by the Chief of Staff, the Commissioner General or the Director General, as the case may be." A police officer cannot take the initiative individually to put anything on his uniform if it is not authorized by one of these three hierarchical functions. Within the federal police, a directive allows the wearing of shields or charms on uniform. These are distinctive signs identifying a service or functionality. Through these initiatives, federal police entities aim to strengthen the sense of pride, belonging and identification, as well as to show diversity within the federal police force. When created, these distinctive signs cannot take over any element of the official police logo and of course remain subordinate to the vision, missions and values of the police. As I said, they must always be authorized by the hierarchy. Recently, after 23 March, a police badge was issued to commemorate the 22 March attacks. For me, this is something that is acceptable and that is also authorized by the federal police. As far as your second question is concerned, the internal functioning and quality monitoring service is the DGR/TIWK. The Federal Police does not have data on any internal investigations. In your third question, compliance with the provisions relating to the wearing of the uniform, contained in the Royal Decree of 10 June 2006 on the uniform of the integrated police and in the Ministerial Decree of 15 June 2006 on the basic equipment and general functional equipment of the members of the operational framework of the integrated police, guarantees, in this case, the principle of neutrality expected of the police officers. In addition, the Police Code of Ethics highlights the values of impartiality and neutrality to be respected by staff members. The emphasis is also on presentation: "In the performance of their duties, staff members adopt non-provocative and non-eccentric dress. They shall ensure maximum uniformity of holding and equipment, in accordance with the prescribed requirements. Failure to comply with these provisions constitutes a disciplinary breach and is subject to the discretion of the disciplinary authorities." In short, any sign - provocative or not - that is not authorized by the Chief of Staff, the Commissioner or the Director General is not acceptable on a uniform. The uniform must express neutrality and allow the police service to be recognized. To me, displaying a cross or anything on a uniform is unacceptable.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic684x.u47	Minister, thank you for your answers. First, you remind me of the legal basis. I will see to it that these elements are reviewed. Then you confirm that some signs require the permission of the head of the body or another official. In some cases, identification elements may be allowed. I am thinking, for example, of badges supporting the fight against terrorism or the White March. It's more delicate with provocative badges. You're telling me that no investigation is being conducted. I conclude that you are not aware of the wearing of such badges inciting discrimination, racism, etc., but that if police officers wore "unfaithful" badges – I am told that this is sometimes the case – an investigation would be conducted and possible sanctions would be taken. It is not acceptable to include references to the far right – a well-known movement – or elements with racist connotations that would provoke confrontation.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic684x.u48	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic684x.u49	Yes, you mean...
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic684x.u50	Or even, I'll give you an idiotic example...
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic684x.u51	"Standard champion," for example?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic684x.u52	Yes.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic684x.u53	This can, in fact, cause some stress.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic684x.u54	There is no reason to be.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic684x.u55	Mr President, I conclude. If the services were aware of problematic badges, an investigation would be conducted and sanctions would be imposed. We agree that neutrality and ethics must be respected in this regard. Thank you for your answer and give you the copies of the badges.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic684x.u56	Mr President, Minister, last February I asked your colleague, the Minister of Public Health, Maggie De Block, about the future reform of emergency medical aid. Currently, with the underfunding of this service operated by the federal government and the method of calculating the amount to be paid by the patient, which is discriminatory, there is an urgent need to move things forward. In response to my question, the minister told me that a strategic vision for non-programmable care that includes the reform of emergency medical assistance has been put in place. Minister, have there been any meetings between your office and Mrs De Block's office to move forward on this reform, which also affects you, particularly with regard to the operationality of services in emergency areas? Can you give me more details on what we're heading for?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic684x.u57	Mr Delannois, there are regular contacts with the Minister of Public Health. The Commission is also represented in the Committee on Civil Security Reform, which meets at least twice a month. On this occasion, the vision and progress of the reform of emergency medical aid are presented to the members of the Commission. As far as the matter is concerned, it is up to my colleague from Public Health to provide you with the details of this reform. I can add, however, that at the thematic Council of Ministers that we held a few weeks ago, we released a significant budget – in the order of EUR 35 million – for this reform. The Minister of Public Health will be able to provide you with details of the plan she has drawn up, which is based on the current situation. In analysing the entire territory, we find that in some areas there is double or triple use of ambulances and in others there is no provision. The plan, of which Mrs De Block will certainly provide you with the details, therefore provides for a perfect distribution throughout the territory. In summary, apart from a few details, the plan has been finalized and the appropriate budget has been released.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic684x.u58	Minister, in fact, there is a small legislative problem. We should be able to look at the area as a new element. I'll give you a rather striking example of two neighbors. If one calls the ambulance on a street X, he'll be dropped off in a certain hospital. If on the same day the other person also calls an ambulance, the price of the intervention can vary almost from simple to double, only because the ambulance could possibly come from another place. If I take the example of Tournai, the ambulance could, for example, come from Mouscron, because Tournai ambulances are already on mission. Given that an area is being worked out and that the means have been shared, it would be logical to allow relief zones to pool the cost of interventions, regardless of the number of kilometres involved. It would, in my opinion, be much simpler and fairer. It is not normal for two people living on the same street to pay a completely different price for the same number of kilometres.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic684x.u59	Minister, an inspection of the Tihange 2 reactor tank has just been carried out. How many cracks were found and what is the size of the largest crack identified? What variations have been identified between the recently completed inspection and the 2014 inspection? My application is intended to receive clearly the variations in size, maximum amplitude, median and average, as well as the standard deviation of these variations. How many indications had to be further analysed because they showed an amplitude greater than the non-evolution criterion? I would also like you to tell me how many indications were noted in 2017 without being noted in 2014. Could you finally give us a full copy of the report presenting the results of the inspection, as well as a copy of the summary made by Bel V?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic684x.u60	Mr Nollet, as you know, on November 17, 2015, AFCN agreed to restart the Doel 3 and Tihange 2 reactors. In this context, AFCN required that Electrobel re-inspect the reactor tanks at their next unit block stop, and after that at least every three years, using the same qualified method for the detection of hydrogen-induced defects. This inspection was therefore carried out in Doel 3 in October 2016 and in Tihange 2 in April 2017, during its first slice stop following the restart. The evolution of hydrogen flakes has therefore been monitored in recent weeks in the form of ultrasonic inspections carried out over the entire thickness of Tihange 2 vats. The results of these ultrasonic inspections were analysed using the methodology used in 2014 and qualified in 2015 by the Safety Authorities. As regards the technique used in these inspections, I refer you to my full explanation, in response to question No. 16812 on the same inspection carried out at Doel 3. The results of the re-inspection therefore identified some variations in the number, size and magnitude of defects between the 2014 and 2017 inspections, but which are the result of the repositioning explained in the answer to question 16812. These few variations fully meet the non-evolution criteria defined in the qualified methods for the dimensioning of defects. In addition, during this inspection, 70 additional indications were newly exceeded. That is, signals detected during previous inspections exceeded the threshold defined in the acceptance criteria to consider a signal as a defect indication. Other indications have come the opposite way and have passed below this threshold. This is a very normal phenomenon for ultrasonic fault detection methods for very small indications, which I have already explained to you in my answer to the question I have already mentioned. All of these variations are therefore not representative of a real phenomenon of the appearance of defects or of the enlargement of defects, but are induced by the process of measuring defects and do not in any way call into question the strength of the tank, and consequently the safety of the reactor. Analysis of these results concluded that there was no new hydrogen flakes and that there was no change in the size of the already detected hydrogen flakes. On the basis of these results, AFCN did not object to the restart of Tihange 2. AFCN and ENGIE Electrabel continue to verify the condition of the tank, as provided for in international rules. With regard to your last request, to send you the report presenting the results of the inspection and the copy of the Bel V summary, I refer you to the Agency's website. It is expected that the report will be published on this website no later than tomorrow night. They prefer to publish the message on their website, in all languages at the same time. That is why it is not yet available today, but tomorrow night. You'll have a reading for the night.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic684x.u61	Minister, I'm still dubious. I don't think the methodology can cover everything up, as we're trying to say here. There are therefore 70 additional indications. They say it's related to the fact that the camera isn't in the same place. In six months or two years, when you start a new inspection, we may also find a hundred new cracks. But we'll still say that "it's because the camera wasn't quite in the same place." I wanted to ask you how many cracks we've found in everything. You're not answering me, and that was my first question. How many cracks have been identified, and what is the size of the largest crack that has been identified? I don't have an answer. I may have it via the report, but I don't think so; I saw a similar report for Doel 3. It was done a few months ago. We don't have those measurements. These questions remain. If I allow myself to be dubious when you want to be reassuring, it is because I think there are in fact few answers to my questions, which are nevertheless basic questions. You say that there is no evolution, in any case in Tihange 2, which is beyond the criteria of acceptability. All right, but that doesn't prevent you from answering my other questions, namely, giving me precise figures and details. I do not understand that there is no answer to this.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic684x.u62	Mr President, I will rely on my second question, which is more topical. Indeed, the first one was written before we knew the decision to relaunch it. That is a clarification to the Minister, since the file has evolved since my first question was tabled. Minister, we will remember that the Tihange 1 plant was closed on 7 September last because of identified, but not sufficiently characterized, danger in the basement. The AFCN has given its green light, but at this stage we have not obtained any precise and quantified explanation and, above all, no guarantee that the building is able to withstand an earthquake. 1. What studies have been conducted? What are the content of the pre-CNFA analysis? In February, the Autorité considered that the stability of certain structures located on this layer was not sufficiently demonstrated. 2. What has changed since then? 3. What now does the characterization of the subsoil and the composition of the embankment layer give? Do you confirm the first indications that showed the presence of different schists (burned schist, black schist and red schist), as well as sandstones, traces of coal, pyrite and even inflating clay or gypsum? How can we say that there is no risk, while the basement is anything but homogeneous, stable and compact as it should be? Can we now finally know where this famous embankment comes from? 4. Was this layer of embankment listed in the original plans and documents? If not, what material was then listed? How is it that this layer was not listed? What credibility can be given to operators who do not know the composition of their basement? Is it acceptable that, for almost 40 years, a nuclear site could have operated with such a hidden defect? 5. Was this layer taken into account in the seismic calculations prior to the launch of Tihange 1? 6. During our exchange on 21 March, you told us that some of the buildings at Tihange 1 are based on the same embankment layer and that, therefore, these buildings are also subject to a safety assessment. Which buildings are they exactly? As the reactor building is located nearby, you would imagine, during our previous exchange, that the same problem arose there. What about it? What have these stability and resistance studies been conducted on each of these other buildings? 7. Can you now tell us clearly what the analysis gave with regard to the seismic resistance calculations of Building W? At what level of resistance is it guaranteed? Can you guarantee that the security level of the W building is at least the same as that prevailing in 2016? Can you guarantee that the safety level of each of the other buildings at the site, such as the seismic resistance level of the building, is at least the same as before 2016? 8. You also taught us, in our previous discussions, that the acceptability of physical, dynamic and transient displacements, as well as permanent displacements in the event of an earthquake, was not sufficiently demonstrated. What now? Can you give us a copy of the numerical results of each of the tests performed? 9. The safety authority also requested clarification and justification of certain parameters for soil control and comfort, as well as a plan for monitoring the settlement of structures. Can you explain what results from the analyses carried out on this point?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic684x.u63	Mr President, it will be very difficult to answer in two minutes. If you agree, I'll take a little more time for this question. Mr Nollet, on 13 May 2017, AFCN approved the restart of Reactor 1 at the Tihange nuclear power plant. The reactor has been shut down since 7 September 2016 after damage was caused during the construction of the building, which houses auxiliary components. The operator ENGIE Electrabel had to demonstrate that the security of the Tihange 1 operation was guaranteed. He has done the necessary work for this. As part of the extension of the Tihange operation until 1 October 2025, the operator was carrying out improvements to the plant. During this work, the W Building, which contains the auxiliary pumps, was damaged, resulting in the automatic shutdown of the reactor, as these auxiliary pumps must be permanently available as soon as the reactor is in power. This incident had no impact on the health of workers or the population or on the environment. Following the incident, ENGIE Electrabel undertook repairs to the W building and damaged equipment. Since September 2016, AFCN, its technical subsidiary Bel V and ENGIE Electrabel have met regularly to discuss the results of investigations, analyses and inspections of this work. During this time, the safety authority formulated numerous complementary questions about the stability and seismic resistance of the building, as well as the root causes and origin of the incident. It required the operator to provide clear responses demonstrating that safety was guaranteed before giving the green light to the Tihange 1 restart. In parallel with the repair work, ENGIE Electrabel attempted to identify the cause of the incident. A geotechnical campaign was conducted to verify soil characteristics. An in-depth analysis of the results of this campaign revealed that the composition and properties of the soil on which the building is built do not correspond to the forecast. These results show that the embankment used in the plant construction is not the material considered in the reactor safety report and stability studies. It turns out, after analysis, that the embankment probably comes from residues from coal mines in the area surrounding the plant. As a result of this discovery, the geotechnical campaign was extended to characterize the soil under all Tihange buildings based on this embankment. Analyses have shown that the soil under this building is similar to that under Building W but nevertheless has acceptable characteristics, in line with the expectations of the safety report. In summary, the analysis concludes that only the stability of Building W, in the event of an earthquake, needed to be justified in depth before considering restarting. The safety authority was not convinced by this justification and therefore asked the Tihange nuclear power plant to strengthen the soil under the foundations of Building W in order to find characteristics consistent with the expectations of the safety demonstrations. Initially, ENGIE Electrabel reinforced the ground directly under the concrete slab that had risen during the incident. As a result, in a second phase, they carried out the soil consolidation work under the foundations of Building W at the end of April 2017. The purpose of the comfort work was to provide the ground under the foundations of Building W with the geotechnical characteristics required to ensure the stability of the building, close to those erroneously indicated in the plan and documentation of the construction of the plant. These characteristics erroneously indicated in the construction documentation were those considered, since the plant was built, in the calculations of building stability and earthquake resistance. Now that the work has enabled the ground to have characteristics similar to those considered in the calculations, there is no longer any doubt as to the capacity of the building to behave as expected by these calculations and thus to comply with the earthquake resistance regulations. The analysis of the results carried out during the first half of May reassured the AFCN on the structural strength of the building in the event of an earthquake. To answer your question directly, the level of safety achieved is now in line with expectations and higher than the level before September 7, 2016, when the soil did not meet expectations. Since giving the green light on May 13, 2017, there has been no significant element on the AFCN side. The operator finalized the documentary update of a number of points requested by the Authority. As far as your questions 3(a) and 3(d) are concerned, today the embankment remains largely as it has been since the construction of the plant, i.e. of lower quality than expected. However, at all locations where buildings or safety-relevant equipment are based on this non-compliant embankment, ground comfort work has been carried out or calculations have shown a negligible impact on their stability. Between these reinforced areas, there are therefore large areas of embankment, as it has been since the construction. After analysis, this embankment is found to originate from coal mining residues in the area surrounding the plant. The origin is not determined, to our knowledge, and does not constitute a point of interest for the authority in this file. From a technical point of view, this embankment is now completely characterized. Establishing its origin will not bring new elements. The authority does not consider it possible today to shed light on how such a construction error has occurred and does not conduct research on this aspect, which would bring little to nuclear safety. With respect to your question 3(b), yes, the AFCN can confirm that. To answer your question 3c: there is no longer a risk because the floor was reinforced, under the foundations of the building, by the injection of 25 cubic meters of cement coulis, directly under the concrete slab, at the place where it had been damaged. In places where it is important that the soil is of good quality, it is shown that the reinforcement has given the characteristics required to withstand a 10,000-year return period earthquake, as required by the resistance test conducted on our power plants after the Fukushima accident. Analysis of the results of the analysis conducted during the first half of May reassured the AFCN on the solidity of the building in the event of an earthquake. I am responding to all three aspects of your question (4). The plan and initial construction documents erroneously indicate that the ground used for the embankment is simply the ground composed of alluvials removed to permit the construction of the reactor building directly on the rock. Nowhere is it mentioned that a soil of poorer quality – because highly heterogeneous and not compact in places – had been used instead. The construction plans were therefore not correct. The Authority has no satisfactory answer to the question as to why this layer was not listed. As far as your question 5 is concerned, all the calculations of the stability of Building W and its resistance to earthquakes since its construction assume that the building is built on the alluvial layer and not on the embankment layer The resistance of this building for the past 40 years nevertheless shows that, if the ground before comfort did not make it possible to withstand a catastrophic earthquake, stability in normal condition was ensured. As far as your question 6a is concerned, it is mainly the BAE building, the electrical safety auxiliary building. As far as your question 6(b) is concerned, this building rests on rocky soil. It was also with the aim of building the reactor building directly on the rock that the ground was dug and then required a layer of embankment. With respect to your question 6(c), the studies have shown acceptable results against seismic standards. As far as your question 7(a) is concerned, after the work, the soil characteristics are now close to those considered in the seismic resistance calculation conducted in the post-Fukushima resistance tests. Resistance is now guaranteed, in accordance with the regulations and expectations of the authorities. I refer you to the national stress test report available on the AFCN website for an overview of its expectations. With respect to question 7(b), the AFCN can ensure that the level of security is at least the same as that which should have existed before September 2016. As far as question 7(c) is concerned, the AFCN can guarantee that. With respect to the copy of the encrypted results, no, this copy is available from the PSAN itself. As far as the credibility of the operator is concerned, the Safety Authority should decide on the dossier submitted to it and the ensuing discussions. The dates announced by the operator are the result of other regulations, with other constraints.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic684x.u64	Minister, thank you for the comprehensiveness of your answer. In question eight, you say that you do not give me a copy, but that it is available on request to the Agency. I assume that this is the case for everyone who will ask to have access to these documents and figures. If that's not the case, I'll come back and ask you. Secondly, more importantly, I hear the explanations, the assurances that you are trying to give about the current situation, that is, after strengthening the basement. However, for a sector such as the nuclear industry, the fact that it operated for forty years on the basis of false information contained in official documents concerning the composition of the subsoil must challenge us! Even if now the basement seems to be known, characterized, the very fact that such a dangerous company could have operated without the Control Agency, the operator himself or anyone being aware of the risk that was taken has the consequence that the speeches of Electrabel and the Agency as what everything is under control are subject to criticism! Experience shows us that they are able to hide reality and truth from us. We're not going to try to find out who's in charge. It was forty years ago, we don't know who made the plans anymore, even if a name may be listed below. However, in principle, it remains very problematic to know that such a mistake could have persisted for forty years and that it was at the turn of an incident that we discovered what was in the basement of one of our nuclear power plants.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic684x.u65	Debates of the European Parliament Question No 18431 by Mr Jef Van den Bergh 19104 by Mrs Lahaye-Battheu are converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic684x.u66	Mr President, Minister, following a Council of Extraordinary Security-Justice Ministers, the government announced a series of security measures, with various objectives, such as the fight against terrorism, the fight against identity fraud, road safety, the safety of self-employed and SMEs, etc. On a preliminary note, I wish to inform you that I regret that the government has not given its full function to the commission of inquiry into the attacks by announcing measures without awaiting the imminent publication of its report on the security architecture. Nor do we have a word on a crucial issue: the workload facing our security services, given the level of the current threat. In fact, the federal police face a record number of overtime hours: 984,000 overtime hours were worked in 2016. The federal government must address this structural problem and empower these services to function in the face of the seriousness of the situation. Finally, this is not the first time the government has made major announcements with many measures. Some of them are struggling to materialize or to be operationalized. Security and, in particular, the fight against terrorism deserve better than a communication operation to revive a torn government. As long as actors on the ground, police, justice and intelligence lack human and budgetary resources, strengthening security and the fight against terrorism, advocated by the government, will remain a glamour. The government announces an additional budget of €105 million to implement 28 measures. This is in addition to the $400 million previously announced. What is the status of the liquidation of this initial amount? I would also like to question you on the following points. The establishment of the new security management is again highlighted. In your policy note, you announced that the legislative and regulatory amendments were expected by the end of 2016. We're in June and this case is still blocked. What is the status of negotiations with trade unions? When can we hope that the framework of 1,600 people will be complete and operational? I then expected to question you about the modernization of the terrorist databases. You said that terrorists who operate from within the country, in other words, homegrown terrors, should be integrated. How will this new category be defined? What will be the criteria for integrating a person into the database? What about the interconnection of data banks? Finally, a screening of sensitive functions will be carried out in certain specific sectors, such as transport: TECs, SNCB, De Lijn, airports, etc. What kind of screening is the government considering? What would be the intended functions? Is there any agreement in this respect with regard to transport which is part of the responsibility of the regions?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic684x.u67	Mrs Poncelet, first of all, I must tell you that, if I followed your reasoning, I would be extremely irresponsible pending the conclusion of the committee proceedings before taking the necessary action. In my view, this is the very example of irresponsibility. I have always said that we are going to evaluate and follow the recommendations of the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry, but I have never claimed that we are going to wait until the end of its work to act. I hope that, if these recommendations are published – as I have learned that a second interim report will soon be completed – I will be able to indicate that several of them are already being implemented. I am pleased that the government did not wait for them to make arrangements. With regard to the DAB, the Directorate of Protection and Security within the police, we remain constant with what I have always announced. Thus, in 2016, we resume all negotiations to define the framework; in 2017, we begin recruitment and finalise the overall framework in 2018-2019. The only thing presented to the Council of Thematic Ministers is the liberalisation of the budget to implement the plan and I have obtained it. This measure is fully in line with the original project plan and I can assure you that the framework of approximately 1,600 positions will be complete by the end of 2018, early 2020. There will be no new homegrown terror database and therefore no interconnections between these databases. Currently, the dynamic foreign fighters databases contain five categories, and a sixth category, homegrown terror fighters, is now added. The criteria are based on the analyses of the OCAM, which is responsible for this database and manages it. It is on the basis of their analysis that the changes will be made. The screening type is currently supported by the ANS. We have decided to increase the number of people who will be subject to this screening and the Foreign Minister, who is responsible for the NSA, will ensure that this procedure is improved. The type of screening will remain unchanged apart from the increase in the number of functions processed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic684x.u68	Minister, I do not consider myself completely irresponsible, as you said. The report will probably be much more complete and so much better if things can meet, that one can feed the other. Thank you, however, for all these elements of the answer. Nevertheless, the remaining 900,000 overtime in 2016. We're gonna have to find a solution to get them back together. If we have to wait for staff to be hired – by 2020 – it will be a lot of hours on hold. I would still like to table a motion of recommendation to the Chair on this matter now. It is structured around four points. The first is to ask the government to provide a structural response to the problems of overwork and overtime faced by our security services. It is important to dedicate sufficient human and technical capacity to these services in order to monitor all the phenomena contained in the comprehensive security framework note and the national security plan. A proper balance must be struck between capacity and workload. The problem is imminent. The second point is to pursue a comprehensive security policy which continues to strive for a better balance between prevention and repression, between proportionality and the effectiveness of measures. The necessary balance should be maintained between the security requirement of the population on the one hand and human rights, in particular the protection of privacy on the other. The third point is to move forward on the issue of the creation of the new Directorate of Security, in full coordination and consultation with trade union organisations. Many issues remain outstanding. The ultimate goal is to achieve maximum police capacity at both the local and federal levels and to reinject resources to key police missions. Finally, the aim is to ensure the effective implementation of the recommendations made by the commission of inquiry into the attacks of 22 March 2016. It is important to develop clear political and strategic leadership and an assessment of their implementation. I move this motion.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic684x.u69	In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. A motion for recommendation was tabled by Ms. Isabelle Poncelet and reads as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the inquiry of Ms Isabelle Poncelet and the response of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Security and Interior, responsible for the Régie des Bâtiments, asks the government - to provide a structural response to the problems of work overload and overtime faced by our security services. It is important to dedicate sufficient human and technical capacity to these services to monitor all the phenomena contained in the comprehensive security framework note and the national security plan. A proper balance must be struck between capacity and workload; - to pursue a comprehensive security policy which continues to strive for a better balance between prevention and repression, between proportionality and the effectiveness of measures. The necessary balance should be maintained between the public security requirement on the one hand and human rights, in particular the protection of privacy, on the other; - to move forward on the issue of the creation of the new Directorate of Security, in full coordination and consultation with trade union organisations. Indeed, many issues remain outstanding. The ultimate aim is to achieve maximum police capacity, both at the local and federal level, and to reinject the resources released into the essential tasks of the police; - ensure the effective implementation of the recommendations issued by the Commission of Inquiry into the attacks of 22 March 2016. It is important to develop clear policy and strategic guidance and an assessment of their implementation." A motion of recommendation was tabled by Mrs Isabelle Poncelet and reads as follows: "The Chamber, heard the interplay of Mrs Isabelle Poncelet and the reply of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Security and Home Affairs, with responsibility for the Directorate of Buildings, calls on the Government - provide a structural solution to the problematic additional workload for our security services and the overtime they have to make. It is important to provide these services with sufficient staff and technical resources so that all the phenomena mentioned in the Integrated Security and the National Security Plan Framework Paper can be monitored. There must be a proper balance between capacity and workload; - to pursue an overall security policy which maintains a better balance between prevention and repression and the proportionality and effectiveness of the measures. The necessary balance must be maintained between the security of the population to be guaranteed, on the one hand, and human rights, in particular privacy, on the other; - make progress on the dossier for the creation of the new Security Directorate, in close cooperation and consultation with the trade unions. After all, many questions remain unanswered. The ultimate objective is to free up as much police capacity as possible at both local and federal level and to re-use the resources released to the core tasks of the police; - effectively implement the recommendations made in the Terrorist Attacks Committee of Inquiry. It is important that there is clear political and policy direction and that the implementation of the recommendations is evaluated." A simple motion was tabled by Mr. Koenraad Degroote. A simple motion was tabled by Mr Conseil Degroote. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed. The motions will be voted on later. The meeting's over. In application of Article 127.10 of the Rules of Procedure, question No. President. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions:
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic684x.u70	Mr President, Minister, a recent report by the P Committee shows that in practice there are a lot of legal questions relating to the handling of the police with mentally ill people. In the view of the P Committee, there is no text available to provide a ready-made answer to the questions in question and to provide the police with a legal basis for correct action against the mentally ill. The Committee therefore calls for a letter to be drawn up to incorporate this in the letter of 2 February 1993. A legislative initiative would also be desirable, in the view of the P Committee, to create a shared professional secrecy between the police and psychiatric institutions when the latter call on the police to control an intra muros incident, and to the extent to which they can communicate information about the mentally ill to the police. I have three questions. Does the Minister share the findings of the P Committee? Will a letter be drawn up? Will the Minister take a legislative initiative, as suggested above?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic684x.u71	Mrs Lahaye-Battheu, I have, like you, taken note of the recommendations and decisions of the P Committee concerning the treatment of the mentally ill by the police. It seems to me appropriate that an in-depth analysis should be made here. I'm going to consult the local police permanent committee on this. The Standing Committee does not currently have a central view of the facts that we are talking about here, nor does it have any means of finding out. However, this does not mean that local police are not sensitive to this problem or that they do not follow the directives. It is clear that this issue requires a more streamlined approach. I will consult with the Standing Committee of the Local Police in order to carry out an in-depth analysis and to examine the initiatives to be taken by a circular or legislative amendment. In any case, this will take place in consultation with the Permanent Commission of Local Police.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic684x.u72	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Vanden Burre's 18269 question was converted into a written question. Questions Nos 18500 and 18718 by Mr Scourneau were postponed. Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Fonck's 18518 is postponed. Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Jadin's 18534 will be converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic684x.u73	Mr President, Deputy Prime Minister, our police forces remain more than ever one of the central parts of our security policy. However, the evolution of crime is unfortunately contributing to increasing demand for them. Despite their dedication in their public service missions, police officers are now facing increasing violence against them. These acts not only undermine the dignity of their function, but also cause ill-being. The press reports that the suicide rate among Belgian police officers is higher than the rate recorded in society. There would also be 17 suicides in the police last year, compared to 21 cases in 2015. These figures are alarming and need to be taken into account by the public authorities. For their part, the police unions explain this sad observation by deteriorating working conditions, sometimes unsustainable work stress and a feeling of loneliness in the face of the magnitude of responsibilities. However, in the face of these distress situations, accompanying measures are already in place, such as the stress team of the federal police, which aims to promote and ensure psychosocial well-being at work. Beyond the analysis provided by the police unions, have your services identified any other causes of this high suicide rate? What is the current state of the problem? In addition to stress team, what accompanying measures are being taken to improve psychosocial well-being among our police officers? Are new avenues for improvement already being considered to expand the panel of tools already deployed in the field?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic684x.u74	Mr Calomne, the analysis of the causes is not carried out systematically within the police services. But, in any case, I can say that they are mostly multifactorial. That is the case in the police as elsewhere. Suicide is rarely the consequence of a single cause. Various factors may be involved which are not independent of each other. It can therefore find causes in the privacy, personality or professional life of the person. Even if any suicide is not systematically linked to work, one cannot afford to evacuate the problem by taking into account the personal and psychological problems experienced by victims without considering the organization of work, labour relations, restructuring and their impact and how to change them. It is important to talk about these facts, to question the causes, even if making the link between work and the move to action remains eminently delicate. It is essential to ensure, every day, that dialogue, conviviality and solidarity, the best bulwark against ill-being, are safeguarded at work. In view of the number of suicides in the police services, an integrated police working group was set up in 2006 to prevent suicide as best as possible. A series of recommendations emerged from this working group, such as the establishment of specific training courses on suicide prevention for all staff members, but also specifically for members of the line of command, or the discussion of this issue in as many training courses as possible related to psychosocial well-being. Several initiatives have been taken within the police force. The outline provided in the hierarchical line for risk analyses of function groups includes a whole section on prevention of psychosocial risks. The internal or external service for the prevention and protection of workers has a department "prevention of psychosocial risks". This department supports psychosocial risk analyses when a danger is detected in a specific entity, as well as formal complaints from staff in cases of violence and harassment. In addition to this, the support of the stress team is mainly on the emotional level in an individual or collective way. It also provides information on administrative procedures and, if necessary, redirects to the most appropriate service to best respond to the problem. The aim of all these interventions is to intervene earlier to reduce the risk of developing a PTSS or other psychological disorder such as anxiety, uncertainty, burn-out, etc. When staff members have developed PTSS symptoms, social workers and stress team psychologists use crisis intervention techniques such as defusing, debriefing, psycho-education, maintenance, etc. and psychotherapy, adapted to the problems frequently encountered in the police services. At the local police level, some large areas of the local police have their own stress team or organize a support team in which colleagues themselves provide the first reception and support. Still others use their external prevention and protection service at work. The network of trusted persons is a support for the prevention of psychosocial risks, since they are front-line actors in the management of informal complaints. Secondly, the occupational doctor is a significant actor, since any member of the staff has the opportunity to consult him on request. The reintegration of long-term absent staff is part of a more comprehensive project aimed at ensuring the well-being of staff members at work. Several awareness-raising and communication initiatives are taken in several monthly newsletters and prevention fact sheets, such as the CGWB Safety info brief, which addresses, among other things, working relationships, suicide and suicide prevention, or the fact sheet on the prevention of suffering and suicide. Finally, there are a number of continuing training courses where the aspect of prevention of psychosocial risks is discussed. For example, management of trauma events, trauma as a result of police work, management of operational stress, stress in police work, and stress management. In the functional training of a police assistant, training participants learn, in module 3.10 on social training, to recognize the signs and symptoms of post-traumatic experiences and stress, and how to respond appropriately. In the "neighbourhood police" functional training, training participants learn, in stress management module 3.2, to recognize the symptoms of stress in themselves and others, and to explain the consequences of exposure to stress. Finally, the subject is also addressed in violence control training.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic684x.u75	Deputy Prime Minister, thank you for your comprehensive answer. As you said, suicide and its causes are multifactorial. But in these factors is the professional context. I hear you're sensitive, and it's important. I have taken note of the various actions you have communicated, in particular those relating to training and awareness-raising through courses on suicide prevention, and the other initiatives you have mentioned. I hope that all these mechanisms will help to improve the situation of police officers and to reduce, as much as possible, the large number of suicides, which is indicative of the staff's unease.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic684x.u76	Mr Minister, the new ICMS Digital Security Portal "Incident & Crisis Management System" should ensure the optimal exchange of operational and strategic information in the event of emergency situations. Good cooperation and exchange of information will enable good crisis management, regardless of the type of emergency planning or emergency, and analysis can be carried out afterwards. It is a new platform that was launched in January 2017 and is the result of a temporary joint venture between the Belgian system CEMAC and the American COBRA. Two people are involved in one and three people are involved in the development and updating of the system. Training is currently being organised to teach emergency plan officials to work with this system. One of those emergency plan officers, whom I leave anonymous, has been to such an information session. He was worried and he sounded the alarm. I'll give you an example he mentioned. During those sessions he found that there were problems with software providers and the ICMS platform. They were around twenty people and during a brief information and introduction session they had to call the help desk immediately, because they were constantly stuck. When they clicked something, they had to wait five minutes, without any reaction. Over time, they weren't logged in anymore. Don't worry, there was a second server available to increase capacity. They were divided into groups and then the two channels did not give the same information and they also had a problem there. Everyone finally turned off their PC and followed the information on slides, as in the past. The system is therefore rather concerned: if information is needed and the system does not work, it reacts too slowly or the information may not be reliable, it seems very difficult. That was also confirmed by the teacher. There are also questions about coordination from the Interior, about the introduction of the system and working arrangements. The login details were only received by the end of January. Things still had to be adjusted. There were no clear agreements on the functioning of the new portal. For example, how should one respond to certain scenarios, which logs should be used, who has access and so on? There were no clear guidelines or instructions and in the end they sat down together to try to make some agreements provincially, while the intention is to do so on a wider scale. However, the case is even more complex. The system was put into operation from 1 January 2017, but at the same time the old system, on which, among other things, emergency plans and arrangements to respond to emergencies were no longer supported. That system has therefore been inoperative since the end of December. So they're actually stuck. I therefore have a lot of questions, Minister. Are you aware of the difficulties with the start-up of the platform? I suppose so, because I will not be the only one who has received such reactions. What steps are you taking to resolve the difficulties as quickly as possible? Have the deficiencies been formally notified to the supplier? Have any steps been taken to fail him and how are we going to respond to solutions? Have there been clear working arrangements around the new portal? What guidelines are given? Is it clear how to respond to certain scenarios, which logs should be used and so on? If it is getting right, is there any provision for an evaluation of the system? In particular, wouldn't it have been better to test the new system first, while the old one still existed? I know I shouldn't tell you that computer science is a very difficult business. I still know organizations where we are trying to introduce new computer systems, which are, however, stalled. However, especially when it comes to a system to respond to emergencies and to ensure safety, care must be increased.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic684x.u77	Mr Minister, my question is similar. Previously, there was the OSR security platform, which consisted of a database containing contact details of all emergency services and resources that can be deployed during a disaster. With the security platform, I quote from a letter from the Governor of West Flanders of November 2011 that emergency plans, training and events calendars, logbooks, maps and current crisis information could be more easily tracked by users and the information was up-to-date. As Mrs Becq said, the ICMS has been in operation since the beginning of this year following a call for tenders by the Crisis Centre. The ICMS is an emergency planning and crisis management system. The system allows all emergency plans, both multidisciplinary and general emergency and intervention plans and special emergency and intervention plans to be uploaded at the various levels, and to link dynamic data sheets with contact details stored in the database. By linking to the database, all contact details in the plans are automatically updated when modified. It is a database with contact details relevant for emergency planning and crisis management. In concrete terms, this database will contain data from competent authorities, emergency services, risk companies and various support services and experts. An automatic system of updates should ensure a high degree of accuracy of the data. Please answer the following questions. For what duration was the tender launched and awarded to this firm or joint venture? Does this mean that there is a chance that a new safety platform will have to or can be put into operation after x number of years? The new platform has been operational since the beginning of this year. Training is currently under way. Does this mean that there were actually problems and delays at the start-up of the new platform? Is the platform already fully operational today? Is there any lack of functionality in the operation of the platform? Since it concerns new software, the question is who is responsible for entering the data. Are those the local authorities? If so, this means a lot of work again. The data will then have to be re-entered. Is there no possibility of adding the most relevant data from, for example, hospitals, schools and other support services by your Home Office services or, for example, by the governor's services, because they actually concern more than one municipality? The completeness of the data can then still be verified afterwards.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic684x.u78	Colleagues, having a performer Incident & Crisis Management System is a priority. The importance of a national security portal for emergency management is also one of the points raised in the parliamentary committee of inquiry into the attacks of 22 March. Since the OSR portal was no longer supported in five provinces, my services were obliged to offer a new operational portal in just a few months. During the past year, the portal has been developed in a huge way. Despite the tight timing, most of the intended functionalities have been developed. For some of them, planning has been reviewed, e.g. for the dynamic emergency plan editor, for which the review of the KB with regard to the emergency planning of 16 February 2006 is awaited. Improvements are being made within the existing modules to better meet user needs. The system is being put into operation. There are comments from the field and then there are adjustments. Some difficulties were indeed detected at the start-up stage, such as the slowness of the system, Mrs Becq referred to it, but also in the navigation and malfunctioning of the search module. These problems were immediately notified to the firm and systematically followed up. The availability of the system is essential. Through the helpdesk there has always been an accurate intervention in the event of interruptions. Together with the firm, the problems are addressed structurally through an action plan. In addition to the daily follow-up by the Crisis Centre, there are regular evaluation moments with the federal services of the governors. They link the feedback and suggestions back from the field to make the necessary adjustments where possible. In this way, the platform can match the needs on the ground as best it can. ICMS is an evolutionary portal in which new developments and integrations are possible. Despite the problems outlined, I want to make it clear that ICMS is indeed operational and has already been deployed in several incidents, events and exercises, such as the train derailment in Kessel-Lo, the Tour of Flanders, various fires, aircraft bombs from World War II, the general power cut in Mechelen, nitric acid in Zevekote and so on. In each of these situations, ICMS contributed to the sharing of information between the partners concerned through the logbook. The portal also brings with it a number of innovations compared to OSR. This also requires some adjustment on the user side. Training and regular practice are crucial. The courses started on 24 April after a first series of introductions in November-December. At the moment a hundred class days have been booked which are partly given by the Crisis Centre and partly by the firm itself. The training shall refer to usage arrangements made with the federal services of the governors and with the aid centres 112. That is an evolutionary document and it describes who is responsible for creating incidents, which log should be used, how data can be entered and so on. Similar agreements also applied to OSR and are now being built on them. Many data have already been introduced into the system through the Crisis Centre, e.g. schools, hospitals, support services and Seveso companies. Those are all data provided by the Crisis Center. These data can be further refined and supplemented by municipal emergency plan officials. At local level, there are sometimes more details, so it can be better supplemented from there. Where possible, existing data have been taken over to minimise the workload for emergency plan officials. This regular updating is a guarantee of the quality of the data in the event of an emergency. The security portal service has been provided for a period of four years, from January 2016 to January 2020. After that, the market will be re-examined. In short, we believe that it is a very adequate system that indeed suffers from childhood diseases. It requires an effort by all players to familiarize themselves with this new tool, hence the importance of the ongoing training courses. The claim that this tool cannot be used at the moment is incorrect. Just now I have listed the events using them. Further comments from users will be integrated into the system.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic684x.u79	Minister, it is reassuring to hear you say that the system operates in the event of a number of events. The information I have received dates from mid-May and is based on experiences from mid-April to the end of April; that is not so long ago that it can already be said that everything has been updated and operationalized in the meantime, even though I think it would be fantastic if that were the case. However, I have little doubt about that. I also understand that it's an evolutionary system. The interactions between, on the one hand, the Crisis Centre and, on the other hand, local emergency planning officials can optimise the system and work arrangements can also be made. I believe that a real evaluation from the provinces is also important, but I have not heard you say anything about it. Has an evaluation been made yet? Since the contract runs for four years, it is desirable not to restart or restart a difficult system after that period. If the contract is renewed, it is also desirable for the serious problems to be known so that further work can be done.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic684x.u80	These evaluations are carried out regularly by a user group and there is also regular contact between the Director-General of the Crisis Centre and the software company concerned, to be behind her feathers. There's another contact scheduled for tomorrow. That is therefore being followed very closely.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic684x.u81	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. First of all, I would like to emphasise the need for availability and efficient deployment of the programme. In crisis situations, it must work well and efficiently and not with whips and bumps. That is why I also asked whether reported problems and comments were properly followed up. I have the impression that this will happen. I also assume, as Mrs Becq rightly asks, that evaluations are being carried out and that it is being verified that everything is up-to-date. My first question about the duration of the award............................................................................................................................................................................................ The previous program is said to no longer be kept up-to-date and can no longer be supported or supported. Now a new program has been put into operation, ICMS, in which data has to be re-entered. After four years, an evaluation will take place, after which we may re-enter the market. I am in favour of ensuring that, within four years, everyone does not have to re-enter all this data. Attention should be paid to the possibility of a conversion of that data so that your services, the municipal services or those local emergency planning officers do not have to do their work again.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic684x.u82	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Pas (PPE). - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic684x.u83	Mr President, Minister, the trade unions NSPV, ACV and ACOD are launching an action in East Flanders to convince local politicians to urge their federal colleagues to invest more in federal police. The actions take place in Dendermonde, Ghent, Oudenaarde and Beveren. The trade unions describe the actions as a cry for help, in order to persuade local politicians to wake up their fellow citizens in Brussels. In concrete terms, the police unions are calling for an end to budgetary constraints, as well as a refinancing plan and an ambitious commitment plan, in order to be able to carry out tasks for citizens and local police areas. The unions complain that there are no more resources and people to carry out the tasks laid down in the police reform in 2002. In their view, transferring tasks to the local police is not correct. The unions also wonder whether 1 600 men or women can be found for the new security force. I would like to have an answer to the following questions. Firstly, have you been in contact with the aforementioned unions about their concerns? Secondly, what answer can you respond to their demand for the cessation of budgetary constraints, for a refinancing plan and for a commitment plan? Thirdly, to what extent are federal police tasks transferred to the local police zones, possibly specifically for East Flanders? What solution do you see for that? Finally, what is the state of play regarding the creation of the new security force?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic684x.u84	Mr President, Mr Top, I can tell you that I or representatives of my cabinet regularly sit around the table with the representative police unions. In concrete terms, it was a strike commitment submitted at the start of past budgetary control. After this budgetary control, I invited the trade unions to my cabinet and informed them of the result achieved, namely that the planned denominations of EUR 15 million would not continue. At that time, the four trade unions all expressed their satisfaction. They indicated that the result was higher than they expected. At that time, the largest trade union has promised to stop its strike commitment. However, the three other trade unions continued their action, for an inexplicable reason for me, since they had indicated that I had carried out more than they had expected. Apparently it is now via pamphlets in East Flanders about things that have been realized. After all, the termination of the denomination has been achieved. Understand who can understand. I also invited the trade unions to involve them in the decisions on the pattern of spending and the strategy of the reclaimed appropriations. We will determine this together with the trade unions, because I feel that they are well aware of the situation on the ground. They know what the highest needs are. I made that offer. How far can one go? Regardless of this concrete result and the positive reactions of all trade union partners, three of the four unions decided to retain their commitment and even extend it until the end of June. In their view, this fits in with a lasting awareness campaign for the future. Okay, I take note of that, but I don't feel called any further... As for your third question, there is no intention of pushing tasks to the local areas. On the contrary, the creation of the new Directorate of Surveillance means the disappearance of the approximately 450 to 500 full-time equivalents used today by the local zones within the framework of the security corps. Your question about the state of affairs is justified. I can tell you that the preliminary draft law on SGIs lies with the Council of State, that the budgets have been released and that recruitment is planned for this year and next year. I have to tell you, these 1 600 units aren't all recruitable. The security corps appears and other existing surveillance orders will be centralized in that corps. On top of that, we will recruit to achieve a capacity of just over 1 600 units. It's an important file. I've committed myself to it and I'm doing everything in my power to achieve the goal. We will recruit the necessary staff and take these tasks out of the hands of the local police. That's what it's about in the end. And we provide a better service.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic684x.u85	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. On my first and second questions, I have received a satisfactory answer. It is indeed important to follow up further on the concerns. You have taken steps to this end. As far as my third and fourth questions on the security force are concerned, if duties can be taken over by the security corps, that is a good thing. Then more time and space will be available for local services to devote themselves to their other tasks. It is important that the security corps can become active as soon as possible and that this is done. I'll keep your promise to get it operational as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic684x.u86	Debates of the European Parliament President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (ChristianDemocratic Group). Before giving the floor to Mr Nollet, I should like to say that I had initially said at the sitting that question No. Mrs Dierick's 18095 would be postponed. However, this question has already been postponed at a previous meeting and is therefore converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic684x.u87	Minister, on Friday, May 12, around 7:30 p.m., the ENC's BR2 reactor in Mol stopped because of a power outage caused by a lightning strike. You will agree with me that a stroke of lightning is an a priori banal event. Why, then, has what took place on 12 May been classified at level 1 of the INES scale? What are the elements that lead to such a ranking? What didn't work as planned? I learned that another incident occurred on May 28, but it was only reported yesterday. The BR2 has again stopped, also due to a power outage, it seems, caused again by a thunderstorm. It was decided not to restart the BR2 nuclear reactor. As my question is complementary, you may not be able to answer me now. Were there any assurances that the reactor could be restarted after the first incident, since a second occurred? Has it also been classified at Level 1? If so, why? Above all, what has been put in place to prevent this from happening again?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic684x.u88	Mr Nollet, I have no answer yet about yesterday's incident. As regards the 12th May, in classifying the event at a defined level, the experts take into account three basic criteria: human and environmental consequences, effects on the installation, reduction of defence in depth. This is the set of safety, control and procedural systems focused on successive barriers that prevent the dispersion of radioactive substances. This includes several independent levels of protection. The failure of one of them does not cause any physical consequences, because the higher level prevents it. After the impact of lightning, the current was cut in part of the installation of the BR2 research reactor at the Nuclear Energy Study Centre in Mol. Then, the automatic security systems shut down BR2. An hour later, the power supply was restored, safety procedures were followed and the reactor was restarted. After analysis on the basis of the above criteria, the incident was classified at level 1 of the INES scale, as the start-up of the diesel generator did not proceed as planned. This anomaly has had no impact on staff, the population or the environment. I think we can see each other next week about yesterday's incident.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic684x.u89	Minister, I have to say that I myself made the mistake: the incident did not take place yesterday, but was communicated yesterday. It took place on 28 May. Anyway, the official communication was made yesterday. I understand, therefore, that you have not been able to update your answer. We'll get back to it. More worrying is the fact that a storm causes a nuclear reactor to stop. Above all, the generator didn't work to power it. Remember, I asked you about the state of the generators because we found out in France that they were not in order. I asked you about the seven reactors, but I forgot to ask you about the research reactor - in this case, the BR2. Now he's in trouble and the generator doesn't start. I hope that the lessons can be learned for the other reactors, which are not research oriented. In any case, I will come back next week, since - and I understand it perfectly - you have not been able to answer part of my question. So I will complete with another one that will deal with the generators. In this way, you can prepare your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic684x.u90	The IRE was denied approval in early May for the physical protection of nuclear facilities. AFCN had already granted a stay to the IRE, but the nuclear constable had to find that the conditions had not yet been met to grant it approval. Without going into detail, what dimensions are still problematic and have led to refusal of authorisation: risks of forced entry? Sabotage threat? Other forms of malicious acts that are poorly controlled or more "simply", the management of nuclear materials, the organisation of safe areas, access to and management of confidential documents? If so, another dimension? Has an action plan been put in place? How many actions have been imposed? What is the timetable for carrying out these actions? What's the ultimate deadline? What will be the penalty if, at the end of this new stay, the IRE still does not meet the minimum necessary to obtain its approval?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic684x.u91	Mr.Nollet, as you mentioned, the last interim assessment of these safety approvals took place on November 1, 2016. Operators were granted a deadline until February 1, 2017 to make changes to their physical protection system as required by the AFCN. For this reason, inspectors and AFCN experts visited the site. AFCN issued its decision on the accreditation of the physical protection system for nuclear facilities and transportation companies shortly before 1 May. Based on its assessment, AFCN concluded that, in general, all nuclear facilities and carriers have made tremendous progress, while noting that some operators still do not meet all the conditions necessary to obtain their approval. These operators are given additional time to implement the latest measures. Specifically for the approval of the IRE, the AFCN can confirm that the physical protection measures already implemented today are high-level. Some improvements are still possible. Given the confidentiality of these measures, the Agency cannot give you details of these measures or even of the areas for which improvements have been requested. The AFCN therefore justified its decision to the operator to impose additional physical protection measures with a time limit for its implementation. AFCN will have found that the operator has implemented all complementary physical protection measures, will approve the physical protection system and will inform the operator of its decision. The aim is not to punish operators who have not received their authorisation. The objective of a licence is twofold: first, the safety of nuclear installations and transport companies must be put as quickly as possible at the level required by law. Secondly, the implementation of a strong safety culture, with continuous evaluation. If the operator complies with the complementary measures, the PSAN will not impose any penalties. I can't provide you with any more information on this. You cannot escape that these files are highly sensitive and properly classified documents. The same is true of the analyses made by the AFCN. Of course, the legislation that protects these nuclear documents does not allow me to provide you with the detailed analysis and conclusions of the AFCN. It's about physical protection. Pointing out weaknesses in public is not without danger.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic684x.u92	Minister, I am not asking you to clarify where problems arise. I am looking at the situation as a whole, as you describe it. It is a question of a nuclear undertaking which for the second time does not obtain its approval. She's making progress. That's what you're saying. We're not going into the details. She's making some progress, and that's what she's doing. However, it does not meet the required standards. I am surprised that it continues to work when it does not have an approval, and that, in any case, there is no time limit for it to get up to level. As long as it pleases, it will continue to function in this way, perhaps by improving its system at the same time. The AFCN will continue to be unable to give it approval. But she can go on, it's not a problem. I'm talking about the principle. I'm not going into the details. I still find that this situation is not right. They say: "You have progressed, but that is not enough yet. By that date, you must meet the requirements." Either they say, "It's not right, and as long as you're not at this level, you're not producing any more." I am surprised that we are content to see that there are developments. I do not seek to know the particular problems. It is, however, quite intriguing, even without knowing the details.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic684x.u93	Mr Nollet, also without going into detail, we must distinguish between breaches that really pose a security problem and rather administrative breaches, in comparison to standards. Do I have to repeat that again? It is clear that if the deficiencies endanger the operation, the PSAN will immediately make the decision to shut down the facility. Here, there are rather administrative shortcomings, and there is good will on the part of the operator. We mustn't exaggerate. It is clear that the AFCN makes the assessment. If there is any danger, it takes the decisions and gives the necessary advice. If these are standards-related elements that are rather administrative or without immediate danger to operation, I find that we must act in partnership to achieve this accreditation.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic684x.u94	I agree with you but admit that in your answer, you do not specify that for IRE, these are missing administrative documents. If these are any administrative documents, agree, there is a logic of partnership. Everyone at some point thinks it's time and you have to, but you haven't given that information. So, you confirm to me that for the problem of IRE, without going into detail, it would only be administrative documents?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic684x.u95	I gave the administrative documents as an example but I say that as soon as there are breaches that endanger, that constitute a risk...
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic684x.u96	It would still be good if we knew a little more, without going into the details. Are they administrative documents or not in the situation we are dealing with here?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic684x.u97	I gave these administrative documents as an example.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic684x.u98	Yeah, I get it. Can't we say that's what this is about? We have a problem because we can't go into detail. We give illustrations of what would be possible but we say that this is not necessarily what is happening at the IRE. We still stay there with a difficulty in the system. For me, we must at least be able to specify what kind of problem there is, without going into detail. If it's administrative, I can follow you, but if it's anything else, I still have a big question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic684x.u99	Questions Nos 18707, 18708 and 18711 by Mrs Lijnen are converted into written questions. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Maingain's 18719 was postponed. The combined question No. 18737 by Mr Calomne and interpellation No. 224 of Mr Crusnière were postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic684x.u100	Deputy Prime Minister, a number of homosexual parents would have faced a problem of mentioning their names when applying for and awarding a Kids-ID for their children. Indeed, it appears that despite the official recognition of the kinship, it happens that only the surname of one of the two parents is mentioned. Contacted on this subject, an internal FPS official reportedly stated that this situation was the result of a computer system that would not have been adapted. The names of the parents must then be recorded manually by the staff of the municipal administrations. In this connection, I quote: "In the case of same-sex couples whose biological parent's partner adopted the child after birth, it often happens that in the Belpic computer application, only information about the adoptive parent is displayed. In this case, the clerk of the municipality must manually extract the information relating to the biological parents so that both parents appear on the Kids-ID". Clearly, the distress of the parents involved in this problem is understandable. What exactly is the state of the problem exposed? Is the phenomenon recent and limited or older and extended? According to the information at your disposal, how many parents are victims of this computer coumac? What measures have been taken to remedy this situation? Have any solutions been adopted by your services, in synergy with the municipal authorities? If so, which ones?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic684x.u101	Mr Calomne, I can confirm that this is absolutely not an administrative error. In view of the various and complex rules of filiation contained in the Civil Code, it may be necessary for the municipal official to adapt the information of one of the parents, on the basis of the information on filiation contained in the file of Population of the child. This possible manual adaptation of the "Parents" section for the manufacture of a Kids-ID does not only concern homosexual partners. It is also possible with other household compositions where parents are not the two biological parents. The Belpic system is used in each municipality for the manufacture of Kids-ID and other Belgian ID cards. It has been in existence for many years and deliberately provides for these manual adaptations by the municipal official. Staff members were informed of this through instructions and training. Their attention was also drawn to the fact that they may also request additional information from the parents present at the counter regarding the mention of the parents on the Kids-ID. They may also contact the regional delegates of the national registry for special cases. It is therefore not necessary to take additional measures or to adapt the Belpic system for the Kids-ID. It's not a computer coucac.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic684x.u102	Thank you, Deputy Prime Minister, for this reply, which completes the information disclosed on this subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic684x.u103	Mr Minister, my question may be somewhat out of date if I am in favour of it. Since 8 April 2017, the mandate of the members of the Commission for Access to Administrative Documents has expired. Thus, the Committee, which is an essential part of the procedure provided for in the Act of 11 April 1994 on Public Administration, is no longer active. It can only become active once the government has settled the new composition, the royal decree in question has been published and the members have taken the oath. Until then, therefore, citizens who are experiencing difficulties in obtaining administrative documents will no longer be able to call on the committee. If I have read it correctly and read the government's decision, then there is a proposal on behalf of the Prime Minister to set up a new committee. I have a few questions for you. Why did the government extend the mandate of the members of the Commission for access to administrative documents and not regulate the new composition in good time? Do you think public administration is important in our democracy? I also have a few practical questions that are still valid. When will the government appoint the new members? That's what happened. However, when will the committee be active again? Finally, how can citizens in the meantime invoke their right to receive certain administrative documents if the administration does not want to provide them with those documents and the appeal body is inactive?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic684x.u104	Minister, according to the Prime Minister's office's statement last May, the federal government was to approve, at the next Council of Ministers, the appointment of two experts to allow the normal operation of the Commission d'accès aux documents administratifs, the appropriate independent authority for this kind of situation. Indeed, at the federal level, most of the files are within the competence of the above-mentioned commission, which has not been active in recent weeks, with the terms of office of its members appointed in April 2013 for four years having ended. Thus, from now on, a person who addresses it receives a reply "that the mandate has expired and that the government has so far neglected to provide for a new composition." The Prime Minister was informed of this situation in July last year, says the Commission, which is responsible for all administrative documents that are not related to the environment. In such cases, the applicant may also apply to the Board of Appeal for access to environmental information, but it also found itself at the judgment for months last year for the same reason. Minister, what are the reasons for this negligence in the recruitment procedure for both the Commission for Access to Administrative Documents and the Commission for Access to Environmental Information? How is it done? Why not take care to anticipate these situations as this lack of experts hinders the normal functioning of these committees? Are you currently working on improving the recruitment process? If so, what will this improvement consist of? If not, how will you address this problem? Could you please inform me about the composition and operation of the Commission for Access to Administrative Documents?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic684x.u105	Mr Top, first of all I can confirm that public administration is, of course, very important in our democracy. The government is currently working on the Royal Decree appointing the members of the Commission for access to administrative documents. The FPS Chancellery will coordinate that royal decision. In early May 2017, I proposed to the Prime Minister the Secretary and Deputy Secretary of that Committee for the new period of operation 2017-2021. It should be noted that the absence of the Committee's opinion does not prevent a citizen from continuing the administrative appeal procedure if he does not have access to an administrative document. Citizens should then first request a review to be made to the administration concerned. The law provides that, in any event, if no timely opinion has been delivered by the committee, the board must take a decision on the request for review. A citizen may appeal to the Council of State within 45 days against such a decision or lack thereof. The existing procedure will therefore continue to apply. Only then there will be no advice from the committee in question. Of course, the mandate of the committee should be extended as soon as possible, since the committee's advice can avoid such a procedure at the Council of State. As regards the reappointment of the members of the public administration section, last Friday the Council of Ministers decided on the draft of the Royal Decree. The legal basis for the Federal Commission on the re-use of the administrative documents, namely the Law of 7 March 2007 transposing Directive 2003/98/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 17 November 2003 on the re-use of public sector information, was abolished by Article 23 of the Law of 4 May 2016 on the re-use of public sector information. In the absence of an implementing act for the law of 4 May 2016 on the re-use section of the current committee, the re-use section cannot be appointed. Mr Kir, concerning the Commission on Access to Administrative Documents, the Law of 11 April 1994 on the Advertising of Administration provides in Article 8 that the King shall determine by deliberate decree in the Council of Ministers the composition and operation of the Commission. Its members are appointed for a term of four years, renewable. It is therefore not strictly a matter of recruitment, but of the appointment of experts in this field. The chairman of this committee and his deputy shall be appointed on a proposal from the first President of the Council of State from among the members of the Council of State. The Secretary and his alternate are appointed on the proposal of the Minister of the Interior from among the members of his administration. The other members are nominated by the Prime Minister, four members and their alternates. Two of these four members are appointed from level A staff members, the other two are external staff members. These members and their alternates are appointed on the basis of their specific expertise in administrative advertising and re-use of public sector information respectively. Advertising the administration is of great importance to the government. In this regard, the Council of Ministers adopted at its meeting on 2 June a draft royal decree determining the new composition of this commission. It will be subject to the King's signature with a view to publication in the Belgian Monitor as soon as possible by the SPF Chancellery. The procedure for the appointment of the members of this committee by the various authorities concerned took some time. It will be necessary to work towards better coordination of these different authorities. I'll take care of it, in collaboration with the Prime Minister. On the proposal of the Prime Minister, the Council of Ministers approved on 2 June a draft royal decree appointing the members of the Commission for Access to Administrative Documents. Ms Kaat Leus is proposed as Chair of the Administrative Documents Access Committee. Mr Jeroen Van Nieuwenhove was proposed as alternate president. Mr Frankie Schram was proposed as a secretary member and Mr Frank Verduyn as an alternate secretary member. Four actual members and four alternate members are also proposed in this draft royal decree.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic684x.u106	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I understand that citizens can still exercise their rights in the meantime, so that has been resolved. I regret, however, that some time has elapsed between the expiry of the mandate of the previous members of the committee and the appointment of the current members of the committee. That could be avoided. What you replied about the implementation of the law of 4 May 2016, I did not understand very well, but I will look for it myself. I would urge you to avoid such matters in the future and that committees be refilled in good time, without a gap between the expiry of a mandate and the inclusion of a new mandate.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic684x.u107	We come to the last question that is being dealt with today, a question from myself.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic684x.u108	Mr Minister, Article 14 (1) of the Royal Decree on the football stewards of 25 May 1999 provides that an unpaid steward shall be removed from his post if he does not follow the annual further training required by Article 12 (2) of that decision. The Royal Decree of 15 June 1999 on safety and coordination policy provides for a similar provision, laying down further training for safety officers consisting of an annual training course, the programme of which must be approved by the Minister and lasting at least six hours. However, that KB does not provide for an dismay when continuing training was not followed. However, the Football Cell would assume that a safety officer would lose the status of safety officer if he did not follow further training, although the Football Club does not expressly provide for this. This means that a person has to take several days of training from the start, for which a high cost has to be paid. Perhaps it would be better to look at a temporary measure rather than a definitive one. Much also depends, of course, on the number of training courses organised for safety officers. Apparently, the only provider of this is the Royal Belgian Football Association. I have the following questions, Minister. How many training courses for safety officers have been organised over the past four years? How many for French speakers and how many for Dutch speakers? Out of interest, are there any special courses in German for the Eupen football club? When did the training courses take place? Were all the courses done by the Belgian Football Association? How does the announcement and invitation for the courses to be followed? Are they addressed to the individuals themselves, to the clubs, via an intranet or extranet? Have there ever been any complaints about the organisation of these training courses? What was the nature of these complaints? How many safety officers have lost their status by not following further training? How many in the last three years? How many of them took a basic course again to get back to work? Are there any safety officers who could get back to work without taking the basic course again? Are you considering adapting the Royal Decree so that a better framework and more legal certainty can be provided for those responsible for safety? For example, is a temporary suspension a possible slope rather than a complete shock?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic684x.u109	Mr Vermeulen, the annual compulsory training courses take place in the period April and June. The training courses are given separately in French and in Dutch. To date, no session was done in German. It was agreed with the safety officers of the Königliche Allgemeine Sportvereinigung Eupen that they would follow further training in French. The number of sessions organized is proportional to the number of safety officers required to follow this training. A maximum of 25 participants are admitted per session and at least one session is organised on Saturday, for both country languages. In 2014 there were fourteen sessions for the Dutch speakers and six sessions for the French speakers. In 2015, there were three sessions for the Dutch speakers and two sessions for the French speakers. In 2016 there were four sessions for the Dutch speakers and two sessions for the French speakers. In 2017, there were five sessions for the Dutch speakers and two sessions for the French speakers. As for your second question, the Dutch language courses took place in 2017 on 20 and 26 April and on 6, 10 and 30 May. In 2016, they took place on 18 and 23 April, on 10 May and on 9 June. In 2015 it was on 2nd and 22nd April and on 9th May. In 2014 they took place in West Flanders on 5 and 17 February and 11 March, in East Flanders on 30 January, 18 February and 13 March, in Antwerp on 31 January, 14 February and 10 March, in Limburg on 4, 13 and 28 February, in Flemish Brabant on 11 and 20 February, in Antwerp on 13 May, in Limburg on 16 May and in East Flanders on 27 May. For French speakers it was as follows: in 2017 on 19 April and 20 May; in 2016 on 30 April and 24 May and in 2015 on 25 April and 12 May. In 2014, it was in Walloon Brabant on 18 and 27 February, in Hainaut on 11 and 20 February, in Liège, Namur and Luxembourg on 13 and 25 February and in Namur on 17 June. The organisation and coordination of annual in-service training are in the hands of the KBVB. It is always possible to call on external experts who are responsible for part of this annual training. In 2014, the organization was deviated and taken over by the Football Cell of Home Affairs. The reason for this was the new KB on infrastructure of July 2013, which was an integral part of this further training. At these sessions the police were also invited, which meant that the number of participants was significantly higher. As far as your fourth question is concerned, the communication with the KBVB to all security officers is always done in the form of a circular. At regular intervals a communication is made to these people. The announcement and the scheduled dates are repeated in such circular letters that are sent by e-mail. If safety officers do not respond to these circulars, they will be contacted by telephone in order to be able to participate in this further training. I come to your fifth question. We have not received any complaints on this matter so far. If there is no problem, we can always create one. Sixthly, in the absence of this annual compulsory training, a number of safety officers have lost or will lose their status in recent years. In 2014, on the Dutch-speaking side, that was five people and zero people on the French-speaking side. In 2015, that was nine people on the Dutch-speaking side and four on the French-speaking side. In 2016, there were eight on the Dutch-speaking side and two on the French-speaking side. In 2017, there were six Dutch speakers and four French speakers. Seventh, in 2015, one safety officer took the basic course again, as he had lost his status due to work abroad for a period longer than one year. Without taking the basic course it is not possible to exercise this function. Finally, your last question. In order to maintain his or her position, the safety officer must follow up-skilling, which consists of updating the knowledge. Consequently, if he does not follow this training, he will have to retrain the training in order to update his knowledge. In the absence of further training, the person will no longer have updated his or her knowledge for two years, since both continuing training and training take place once a year. It is therefore a temporary suspension, not a definitive one. The person who does not undergo further training for a certain period of time can perfectly resume the training and become a safety officer again. There is no prohibition.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic684x.u110	Thank you, Minister, for your detailed explanation.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic684x.u111	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Foret (S). - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Van Hecke's 18882 question was converted into a written question. The same applies to questions Nos 18916 and 18917 by Mrs Vanheste. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). President. - The next item is the report (Doc. Mr Kir, Mr Kir, Mr Kir, Mr Kir, Mr Kir, Mr Kir, Mr Kir, Mr Kir, Mr Kir, Mr Kir, Mr Kir, Mr Kir, Mr Kir, Mr Kir, Mr Kir, Mr Kir, Mr Kir, Mr Kir, Mr Kir, Mr Kir, Mr Kir, Mr Kir, Mr Kir, Mr Kir, Mr Kir, Mr Kir, Mr Kir, Mr Kir, Mr Kir, Mr Kir, Mr Kir, Mr Kir, Mr Kir, Mr Kir, Mr Kir, Mr Kir, Mr Kir, Mr Kir, Mr Kir, Mr Kir, Mr Kir, Mr Kir, Mr
