ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-21-54-commissie-ic600x.u1	Presidents: Mr Siegfried Bracke, President of the Chamber of Representatives and the Advisory Committee on European Affairs and Ms Christine Defraigne, President of the Senate. Chair: Mr Siegfried Bracke, President of the House of Representatives and of the Committee on European Affairs and Ms Christine Defraigne, President of the Senate.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-21-54-commissie-ic600x.u2	The meeting was opened at 11.05 a.m. The meeting was called to order at 11.05 a.m. Have taken a seat on the government bank: They took place on the bench of the government:
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-21-54-commissie-ic600x.u3	Mr President of the European Commission, Mr Juncker, ladies and gentlemen, it is a great pleasure for me and for all of us to welcome to the Belgian Parliament the President of the European Commission, in accordance with a tradition that now seems to be well established. I would like to extend a warm welcome to you, Mr Juncker, and thank you for having responded to our invitation. I am aware that your agenda is very busy, but we have the advantage of living on the same street. This is not the first time that we have the honour of receiving the President of the European Commission for an exchange of views. In October 1992 we received a visit from President Jacques Delors. In March 1997, we had an exchange with Jacques Santer on the challenges of the Intergovernmental Conference. And in July 2006, Mr Barroso came to talk to us about the future of the European Union. It is with great interest that we will discuss Europe and the EU with you. It is a Europe that is experiencing a crisis, but crises are challenges and challenges to improve the future. There is no doubt that this is a comprehensive and intrusive issue, which is also very topical and, unlike some other items, will remain burningly topical. Now that many citizens no longer recognise themselves in the European Union, we need to think about what can connect us. One does not become a European citizen, because it is a treaty that has been decreed in this way. A European sense of identity can, of course, never be forced, but we can and must try to steer that feeling. We must inspire the citizens of Europe by showing them a Europe that acts, that goes on the barricades, that dares to be creative and that shows courage when circumstances require it. A Europe that acquires more legitimacy by somewhat forgetting the rules from which it was formed. A Europe that emerges from the bubble in which it sometimes tends to be complacent to the detriment of the peoples that make up it. What European model of society do we want and what is the very purpose of the process of European integration? While Europe's future today faces a threat, these two issues are at the very heart of the discussions initiated in Bratislava last September by the Heads of State or Government of the 27 Member States of our Union. As our Prime Minister reminded us last week in the Chamber, these debates are to be concluded by the 60th anniversary of the signing of the Treaty of Rome on 27 March. I am convinced that, if Europe wants to regain public confidence and secure people's support and commitment, it will have to provide clear answers to these two questions without delay. European citizens do not want new rules or treaties, but more jobs, more security and more growth. They want a Europe that talks less and does more, a Europe that can mobilise them and make them proud, because they belong to that European model. Since the financial crisis, Europe has too much image in public opinion of an accountant. We must give citizens the feeling that through their past, but also through their present, and above all through certain values, they can be proud of being European. Belonging to Europe must not erase our cultural, linguistic or other differences, because the diversity of the Member States is a source of wealth. The architecture of the European project should be structured around a specific geographical area within which peoples can live and share their diversity. Thank you and I pass the floor to my dear colleague in the Senate. Mrs Defraigne, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-21-54-commissie-ic600x.u4	Mr President of the Commission, the Commissioner, the President of the House, ladies and gentlemen, it is now common practice to say that Europe has been built in the course of crises. It should then be perfect, because, at the moment, it is not the shortage of crises, but rather the plethora, that we are suffering: the rise of radical Islam, terrorist attacks, the migration crisis, chaos in Syria and Libya, and, of course, the economic crisis that is not ending, with atonement for growth in most Member States. And above all, a crisis of people's confidence in the European Union, which has resulted in Brexit in particular. In short, we are at the heart of questioning European values. Colleagues, you have the right to castigate me for such an entry into the matter, somewhat "depressiogenic". Yet Europe has always moved forward. We can see its colourful future, provided that the political will is there. Being optimistic is a moral duty. Sacrificing the magnificent European construction would be suicidal for the peoples of Europe. Let's look forward. Let us build a people's Europe, an institution that stands like a house. That's what we need to get deeper. Enlargement has probably gone too fast. The European project must be more in line with the expectations of our fellow citizens. Finding each other in common values is fundamental. But also share common ambitions. This is the case, for example, with industrial projects - we suffer too much from the infringement of our fabric in this area - and renewable energy projects, mobilizing for a common cause, such as the fight against global warming. We need, like bread, a harmonisation of many European rules, of course in economic, fiscal or monetary matters, but also in social and judicial matters. We must achieve a real political Europe that makes its voice heard in the world. That is why we must proudly promote the values of Europe. We need a genuine European awareness, a realistic European patriotism. What is our identity? It is probably this feeling of belonging to the Union that we miss most today. Europe is not a static status, it is a dynamic process. Ladies and gentlemen, our country, by the historic role it has always played in the construction of Europe, must be without complexity. He must make his voice heard, with a voluntary, committed and creative positioning in the European project. We will probably not erase a certain subregional level, either in Belgium or elsewhere. But we must show that at the level closest to the citizens - the Regions, the Communities, the municipalities - the European Union can make a difference with its concrete projects. It should not be a blocking factor for some investments, but rather a key factor in the engine. Let me, as I am from Liège, express myself in this way by means of a metaphor. Europe is facing long-term challenges. That is why there is a need not only for commitment, but also for concrete solutions that will enable us to make progress. With 27 countries, we must move forward vigorously. Anyone who wants to slow down will have to make the decision on his own account. We unite those countries that want to move forward. Mr President, multi-speed Europe does not have my preference. But we may have to take on this: a hard core made up by the Eurozone states. I call for enhanced cooperation between these States on economic, security and migration issues. Let us not stalemate a Europe of defence, nor a union of intelligence. Mr President, I would like to make a catalogue of our challenges, to list them in this way, but I would like to end by sending a message which I believe is fundamental: we will not trust our citizens in the construction of Europe until we have resolved the question of social dumping, which is a source of anxiety and anger for our fellow citizens. The free movement of services within Europe must take place in circumstances which guarantee not only equal treatment for undertakings but also respect for workers' rights. To this end, the Posting of Workers Directive should be amended. To pass on Europe's legacy to future generations, it is a courageous, enterprising vision in some respects, a very new vision, a decapitating vision, far from certain beaten paths, which we must now build. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-21-54-commissie-ic600x.u5	Hartelijk bedankt. Mevrouw de voorzitter, mijnheer de voorzitter, ladies and gentlemen Members and senators, Commissioner, dear Marianne, Mr.Ambassador, it was planned that I would address you a month or two ago. I learned that the Speaker of the House, on that day, was on a trip. Parliamentarians like to travel. Then I discovered that he had given my speech before you at today's sitting for a simple reason: it is his birthday today. On behalf of the Commission and Europe, I want to congratulate him! I told Marianne by car, I'm probably the non-Belgian who knows Belgium best. This is instructive, it allows me to understand the difficulties, including institutional and inter-institutional difficulties in Belgium, but it also allows me to pay tribute to this country that I have known well, always. I live 17 and a half kilometres from the Belgian border. All Luxembourgers live in a border region, but it gives us a better understanding of others and a better understanding of each other! First of all, I wanted to pay tribute to this country that I love very much. I discovered this love, deep and complicity for Belgium in March last year. We will commemorate this terrible day in March. Let us know that Europe, like last year, will be with you on that day. I know who I'm talking to, but I didn't quite understand the chronology this morning. I found out in the car that I'm supposed to speak for ten minutes. This is normally the time I need to introduce my introduction! I shall therefore confine myself to the essentials, first of all, to telling you how much we appreciate the role that Belgium always played in the Commission. The Belgians, because they are Belgian, have understood the European and continental stakes. We have been, the Dutch, the Belgians, the Luxembourgers, at the forefront of European integration, since the Benelux has given an idea of what Europe could be like in terms of its basic sculpture. Few today remember – since we were not born – that Benelux was created in 1944 by the three governments in exile in London. The first ideas on the European Union were, in fact, the vanguard of those coming from Central and Eastern Europe. Because the first projects on the European Union – this was the title of their reflection – came from the Polish and library governments in exile, too, in London. We who believe in this part of Europe that we are precursors – which is true for the three Benelux countries – are not. Moreover, in the paper submitted by the Czech and Polish governments in London on the console of the great nations, they said, in the end, that they wanted the countries of Western Europe to join them one day on this project. The terrible diktat of the post-war period, which wanted our friends of Central Europe to be separated from us forever, prevented them from translating their basic idea into concrete action. But it is sometimes necessary to remind those who look condescendingly at what is always and wrongly called the new Member States of the European Union that the initial idea emanated from the Czech and Polish governments. The Commission attaches great importance to regular contacts with national parliaments. The Speaker drew your attention to the fact that all my predecessors have come before you. But when I took up my duties, I asked the Commissioners to move around Europe; not to stay on the eleventh, twelfth, thirteenth floor – not the thirteenth, it's me alone – of the Berlaymont, but to move around; to speak to the national parliaments. The Commissioners have made 485 visits, since the beginning of our mandate, to the national parliaments, including six in Belgium, thus demonstrating our interest in national parliamentary opinions. We are accountable to the European Parliament, but, believe me, we believe that we are also responsible – even if this has not found any institutional translation into the Treaties – to the national parliaments. I have always considered, for nineteen years as prime minister of the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, that Europe cannot be built against the nations. Those who imagine that the nations would be a temporary invention of history will learn that the nations are made to last in their different declinations. There is the national level, the federal level and the regional level. Tomorrow, within twenty years, real competition will not take place between the States, but between the Regions; we must therefore pay all due attention to the regional fact. To my knowledge, if I may use this somewhat exaggerated pronoun, I consider that we are struggling with what I would call a "polycrise". I spent the first half of 2015 just on the Greek crisis, which is eternal, which lasts, but is being resolved. I hope so for Greece and for myself. We have found that the war in Syria, unfortunately, continues. We have the Brexit problem and we have a new president in the United States, whom I was able to meet yesterday with the vice-president. There's a crisis everywhere. Let us start with Brexit, since it is a crisis that concerns us all. I note with some displeasure, if not some disappointment, that in many countries this case is considered to be settled. She's not. When the British Prime Minister sends us her divorce letter, negotiations will begin. We have two years to agree on the arrangements for leaving the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland from the European Union. To see a country leave, not of lesser importance, because there are no countries of lesser importance, but a true European actor in the European Union's cenacle, saddens me. We will therefore have to settle this matter, not with a heart filled with the feeling of hostility, but with the knowledge that the continent owes a great deal to the United Kingdom. Without Churchill, we would not be there; we must not forget it. But we must not be naive either. Our British friends will have to understand that we want to continue to develop European integration, not by making the European Union a closer union every day – it is an introductory poem of the Maastricht and Lisbon Treaties – but by strengthening the links between us. It is therefore essential that those who wish to benefit from the advantages of the internal market respect the four fundamental freedoms, including the freedom of movement of workers. It will be a difficult negotiation that will take two years. It will take years to reach agreement on the way out and on the future architecture of relations between the United Kingdom and the European Union. The British will have to know – they already know – that their exit from the Union will not be at a reduced cost or at a zero cost. The British are bound to respect the commitments they have made. So the bill will be, to say it a little vulgarly, very salty. The British will have to comply with their voluntary obligations. We are not at the end of the economic, financial and, I dare say, monetary crisis. All the problems we have had have been solved, but they have not been solved entirely and it will be important to bring all the necessary institutional tenderness to the euro. I am a little depressed when I read the Belgian press, not because it is the Belgian press, but because it reports the words of Belgian politicians who, on economic and monetary union, have a look that is not imbued with recent developments. The euro is not austerity. I was president of the Eurogroup for eight or nine years. I never liked this neoliberal discourse, this speech of austerity and excessive rigour. I am against blind austerity, which is why this Commission has, in the noble sense of the word, made the interpretation of the Stability Pact more flexible by adding investment clauses and clauses that concern structural reforms. As a result, in order not to take a Belgian example, Italy today can spend an additional EUR 19 billion, without being sanctioned under the Stability Pact, which we have amended, without changing it entirely by adding a reading dose, an economic reading grid to the interpretation of the Pact. In fact, the Pact is working. We had an average budget deficit of 6.3 per cent in 2009. We fell back to an average deficit of 1.7% in 2016, which clearly shows that, without austerity, by applying a policy of fiscal seriority, fiscal consolidation is possible, including in Belgium, which has managed to ensure that it is no longer, apart from the public debt that remains enormous, considered a country lacking budgetary progress. I was a young finance minister in 1991 at the time of the Intergovernmental Conference on Economic and Monetary Union, which I had the honour of leading. At that time, Belgium had a deficit of 13%. Over a relatively short period of time, reducing a huge budget deficit to a more acceptable budget deficit in 2016, 2017 and 2018 is a considerable national effort, which Belgium should be congratulated. We often talk about Europe in terms of crises. In fact, I consider that we are insufficiently proud of Europe's performance. Look at the map of the immediate post-war period! Look at the fate of those returning from battlefields and concentration camps! Look at their courage, which was to make this eternal post-war prayer, "Never again the war", a political project that lasts and that, until now, comes out of beneficial effects for everyone. We have created the largest internal market in the world. We have a single currency, which I could not regret, since on the day the euro was introduced we did not lose the Belgian franc, but we freed ourselves from a Belgian supremacy that became unbearable. The Belgian Government, in its non-wisdom in February 1982, had decided to devalue the Belgian-Luxembourg franc without asking the Luxembourg Government for its opinion. For me, it was an argument for the creation of a single currency, which made a powerless partner a co-actor and an active co-owner of a single currency. But we are talking about these things without referring - Mrs Defraigne has just referred to it - to social Europe. Social Europe is the poor child of European integration; not that nothing would have been done in this area. There are directives on equality between men and women that have pushed national legislators to do what they did not really want. We have many directives on health and safety at work. Mrs Thyssen is building, I would not say ex nihilo, but on the basis of little, a pillar of social rights in Europe. For me, this is a requirement of our time, which requires a great deal of effort in our collective effort to reconcile the citizens of Europe with Europe; since there is a huge gap between the European political world (the Commission – let's not talk about the Council!) and European citizens. We will do so in a way that will speak to those who work, who are part of Europe and who are not less noble people than those who led us to a neoliberal Europe, in the non-liberal sense of the word – because the expression "neoliberal" does not take account of the evolution of liberalism in Europe. Workers must be reconciled with Europe, to which Mrs Thyssen attaches great courage. It is in this vein that we have introduced – finally, Marianne has introduced – a revision of the Posting of Workers Directive. Europe is not tax dumping. We are working hard to re-regulate the tax landscape in Europe in order to avoid the tax dumping that Belgians and Luxembourgers know well about for a while. Social dumping must be combated. It is not normal that in Europe, those who come to work in Belgium - where the problem of secondment is known - or in France or Luxembourg, are treated less well and paid than those who work with them in the same factory, in the same factory, in the same office. We have received yellow cards from eleven parliaments, but we have answered these questions. There is no reason to believe that, in the matter of secondment, there are arguments of subsidiarity. I am a great fanatic of subsidiarity. This is the social doctrine of the Church. But Aristotle, it must be said to the Christian Democrats, was the first Christian Democrat, because it was he who invented the principle of subsidiarity. At regional and local level, things will have to be done, for which regional ministers-presidents and mayors in our cities and municipalities are more competent than Commissioners and Commission officials. But secondment is not a question of subsidiarity. If there is a question of solidarity, it is cross-border work. Therefore, social dumping must be combated. I will say a word from CETA, since it has agitated the European political world. Yes, yes! I told you it took me ten minutes to do the first part of my introduction. I respect Parliament, but the first questions that will be addressed to me will be to say, "You have not spoken of this or this." So I am going to talk about CETA to say that, on this point, Belgium will have to get together - not to talk about the content, but to talk about the method. I did not like the criticisms, particularly in the south of the country, which criticized the Commission for not being able to listen to the Parliament of Namur. It would have been the duty of the central government and the governments of the various regions to agree, instead of insulting the Commission. We are not here to do the work of Belgium. Belgium must do its own job. So I will not talk to you about the beneficial effects of the agreement with Canada. I respect the powers of the Regions, but they are not the Commission's normal interlocutor. We infiltrated the case so that an intra-Belgian agreement could be reached, which allowed us to conclude this difficult case. I will not tell you that Belgium fully benefits from the European Investment Plan, which, when invented, was called the Juncker Plan, because it was thought that the plan would never work. So we wanted to pre-identify the author of the "crime." Now it works, including in Belgium. It is now the European Investment Plan. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-21-54-commissie-ic600x.u6	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are under the pressure of time. I would suggest that you all know enough about the matter of everyone being limited to one important aspect for one minute, so that the President has the opportunity to reply. I respect the order of the political groups. I suggest that you introduce yourself at the beginning of the question and tell us which parliament and which group you belong to. You have the floor, Mr Luykx.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-21-54-commissie-ic600x.u7	Welcome to the Federal Parliament, Mr President. For Europe, it's rush-shooting. In view of the summit in Rome, it is indeed necessary to think about the future. Some challenges, such as the Brexit and the crises, can be a catalyst in this. The Flemish Government has already drawn up a ten-point plan with a vision of Europe and, among other things, strategic international trade agreements, which you consider to be very important. How do we see this future? Should we see it in the long run? Should we evolve into some sort of institutional europhile castle or should we focus on a pragmatic approach and concrete results, a kind of Swedish coalition at European level, while, as in Belgium, an institutional standstill is respected to ensure that the approach on the ground becomes tangible? Mr Juncker, you referred to the importance of the national Member States, the regions and their own identities. How will you deal with these regional entities in the future, which may become a Member State in Europe, such as Catalonia, Scotland and Flanders?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-21-54-commissie-ic600x.u8	Mr Juncker, thank you very much for coming to this House. You said at the time of your installation that this Commission would be the last chance. It is therefore important that we can debate today. Our group has always had a federalist message while advocating for another Europe, that which protects and allows social progress and not that of budgetary orthodoxy which blocks the slightest revival and public investment, nor that of Europe from the inaction that leads European workers to compete unfairly. My first question is very simple. How do you see the evolution of the Belgian position in this context? Do you find that Belgium is actively involved in implementing this other Europe, for example when we see that the current government is blocking enhanced cooperation on the TTF? In preparing for the Rome Summit, which will have the heavy task of looking at the future of Europe, it seems too often that we are talking about Brexit. You have made a mini-balance of your action, but what are your priorities and innovative projects to move forward and relaunch the European project, dare I say the European dream? We are thinking of the TTF, the revival of public investment, the fight against dumping and the defence of European values. You say that social Europe is the poor parent of the European Union. What solutions do you propose? What are you going to do to solve this problem?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-21-54-commissie-ic600x.u9	Mr Juncker, on behalf of the Reform Movement and my colleagues Mrs Jadin and Mr Flahaux, thank you for your presence. My question is direct. Our Prime Minister, Charles Michel, is very voluntary at the level of everything that can be done for an investment plan involving the Belgian federal state and Belgian federated entities. This is, of course, part of strict compliance with European budgetary rules. My question is this, Mr President: is there any reflection in the European Commission on the accounting of public investment in our country?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-21-54-commissie-ic600x.u10	Mr President, on behalf of the CD&V Group, I would like to thank you for your explanation. You know that Belgium has always been a pioneer in the European story. We have always believed very strongly in a socio-economic union, in a political union, in a global actor in the world. You said just now that there is a gap with the citizen. We also put the same question to Mr Herman Van Rompuy a few weeks ago. He said that there is actually no gap with the citizen, because the European story has never been closer to the citizen, because of the influence of European regulation on the daily life of the citizen. Hence my question about the paradox that exists today. On the one hand, there is a great deal of influence from Europe on everyday life. On the other hand, we are concerned that a gap is being perceived with the citizen. What proposals will you make, also on the occasion of the 60th anniversary of the Treaty of Europe, to rekindle that faith among the citizens?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-21-54-commissie-ic600x.u11	Mr President, we must be very attentive in the context of the Brexit negotiations. Europe must not only be engaged in the Brexit negotiations in the coming years and not just develop a strategy to punish the British in order to keep the rest of Europe together. In what way will you ensure that there is sufficient time for these major reforms, so that we go to a Europe and a European Union of hope and not of fear? Last week, in the Chamber, we unanimously adopted a resolution to stop pre-accession aid to Turkey, because of human rights violations, because of the fundamental violations of freedom of the press. I know that the European Commission is following this matter carefully. Is the European Commission also prepared to effectively stop pre-accession aid to Turkey and thus take up moral leadership in the world, for which we have a unique opportunity with this changing situation?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-21-54-commissie-ic600x.u12	Mr President, on behalf of the Flemish Socialists too, I would like to welcome you to the Chamber. I have a question about international security. We have to make choices in Europe, and I suggest that it is perhaps a bit out of fashion to make choices on the basis of facts. If we look at SIPRI data, it appears that in the last 25 years the EU countries have spent at least three times more on Defence than Russia. That must be enough to ensure military security. We are prepared to make it even better. What does the European Commission propose to achieve better coordination in order to achieve greater integration in the field of defence? Secondly, I was very pleased when I heard you in Munich last week arguing for a broader understanding than military security. I do believe, in relation to Europe's security problem, that once we have settled military security and the problem in the East, the greatest insecurity for Europe in the coming decades comes from a possible destabilisation in Africa and the Middle East. We must make a much greater effort, rather than a military effort, towards international solidarity with Africa and the Middle East. I would like to hear from you what your Commission is planning in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-21-54-commissie-ic600x.u13	Mr Juncker, on behalf of the French and Flemish Greens, I thank you for going up the 400 metres between our Parliament and your office. When it comes to the constitution of a Europe of social rights, which you call for in cooperation with Mrs Thyssen, who is here and whom I thank for her presence, what will be the binding mechanisms for the remaining 27 Member States, allowing a concrete response to the six million poor who have emerged in 26 European countries, with the exception of Poland and Romania, in favour of the austerity policies implemented by the European Union since 2008? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-21-54-commissie-ic600x.u14	Mr Juncker, thank you very much for being with us today for this exchange of views. Thanks also to Marianne Thyssen for being here. It is well known that among the elements which are likely to revive confidence and enthusiasm in the European Union, there is indeed a social Europe, but also a Europe of defence, internal and external security. You may know that Belgium will probably soon introduce a law on military programming. It is a matter of committing ourselves, for the future, to major efforts in the field of heavy equipment, including military aircraft. European directives already allow some European preference on strategic issues. In the current context, with Mr Trump's American statements on NATO and on the European Union, what recommendations do you make to Europeans, possibly to Belgium, on military purchases? Is it not time to have an integrated defence industry in this area and to give preference to European equipment?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-21-54-commissie-ic600x.u15	Mr President, I have a brief question about the rise in Belgian public debt. How does the European Commission explain and assess the fact that Belgium, in the middle of Western Europe, despite all promises of change, has been showing structural and unchanged southern European debt figures for over 20 years? Is there a statement or an assessment by the European Commission?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-21-54-commissie-ic600x.u16	Mr Juncker, I am speaking to the President of the European Commission but also to the former Prime Minister and Minister of Luxembourg for some 20 years. The Guardiana unveils your role in the veto that you would have put to most initiatives in the fight against tax evasion. It is also known that Luxembourg, beyond the LuxLeaks case, continues to play a fundamental role as a tax haven. You're telling us that it's ancient history, if I understand what you're saying. I agree with you that Belgium also has things to blame in this area, even though I think that the level of Luxembourg is still not a common measure. Today, Switzerland and Luxembourg are two countries that play a key and very serious role in tax evasion in Europe and around the world. I quote Gabriel Zucman, one of the specialists in tax havens, who believes that this role played by Luxembourg is really damaging to public finances, particularly the countries of the European Union. It goes so far as to propose, if Luxembourg does not change its policy, that it be excluded from the European Union and that a trade and financial embargo be applied to it. What do you think of these statements?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-21-54-commissie-ic600x.u17	President Juncker, according to Charles Michel, our Prime Minister, a two-speed Europe would be possible when a multi-speed Europe would be a total clash. What do you think? I would like to ask you a question about the sanctions against Russia. They are, in my view, counterproductive because they penalise, above all, Belgian and European producers. Moreover, the change at the head of the United States and the rapprochement between President Trump and Putin mean that Europe will find itself out of the game in the world and to occupy the place it deserves in all international policy discussions. Do you intend to lift these sanctions and what deadlines?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-21-54-commissie-ic600x.u18	I give the floor to the co-chair of our opinion committee, Mr Mahoux.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-21-54-commissie-ic600x.u19	President Juncker, the Committee of Opinion is made up of Members of the House, the Senate and the European Parliament. But I think you know that. I have two contrasting questions, one of which may be of less interest to the citizen than the other. We hear a lot about the need for a new institutional stage, a revision of the Treaties. At the same time, I heard the Speaker of the Senate recall, perhaps in contrast to the last intervention, that treaties are not being exploited to the maximum, that is, the enhanced cooperation with variable geometry that they provide is not being used enough. I would like to have your point of view in this regard. The second point is of greater interest to the citizen. That is not because Mrs Marianne Thyssen is here, but it still concerns the posting of workers. Parliamentarians travel, but often to work, Mr. Chairman. When travelling to Europe, it can be seen that, depending on where Europe is located, opinions on this secondment directive differ. These points of view are expressed in a different way. But for our fellow citizens, in terms of accession or repulsion to the European idea – we must go so far – this problem of posting workers and therefore social dumping is a fundamental element. I would therefore like to have your views on this, including on a timetable for what is expected, i.e. the adoption of the amendment to the directive.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-21-54-commissie-ic600x.u20	Ladies and gentlemen, thank you all for your conciseness. In der Beschränkung zegt sich erst der Meister. I give the floor to President Juncker.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-21-54-commissie-ic600x.u21	Vielen Dank, voorzitter mijnheer. I would not dare say that there are too many parliamentary groups in Belgium, since it is its democratic diversity that is expressed on such occasions, but you do not realize that you have asked me twenty-four questions. I warned you that you'd question me about anything I didn't talk about. I leave aside the questions which I have already answered, even briefly and perhaps too succinctly. It would take me half an hour to respond to our friend at the PTB, because I should explain to you the meanderings of the Belgian tax haven, of which I have an intimate knowledge, if only, because, when I was young finance minister, many were knocking at my door to say: "If you do not do this, we are going to Belgium because the Belgians have offered us this and that." So don't teach others a lesson, please! [[(...): (...)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-21-54-commissie-ic600x.u22	Yes, the PTB is not Belgium and, moreover, Belgium will never be the PTB! But I want to tell you, dear friend, that every time, and this is not a joke, Europe has made significant progress in tax harmonisation, this has been done under the Luxembourg Presidency, and particularly under my own. I could provoke you by asking you to explain to me the European VAT and excise system. This was done on 24 June at 7.45 a.m. the day after Luxembourg's national holiday, because I presided over ECOFIN on 23 and 24. Never would anyone dare ask a French finance minister to chair a Council on 14 July. That would not happen. But small Member States have constraints that others do not know. In 1997, President of ECOFIN, I launched a roadmap for tax harmonisation on business and on savings taxation. When I decided to put an end to Luxembourg's banking secrecy, Belgian finance ministers became excited (...). I'm not talking about you, Steven! Ah, I see he's gone. When he heard the question about the Luxembourg tax haven, he fled immediately. The Belgian ministers found that there was a more solid bank secrecy in Belgium than in Luxembourg. But I pass on this because it would lead me to words, not hurtful but too extensive. I want to answer several questions. Firstly, on the institutional question that several of our colleagues have raised. I believe that the time has not come to launch Europe in an institutional debate. It's not people's interest. This may be of interest to the Commission, to the President of the Council whom I shall see in half an hour, to the European Parliament, to the national and federal parliaments, but it is not of interest to people. They have other problems. What are we doing to bring Europe closer to the citizen? The huge gap between Europe and its citizens is also the result of the twenty-eight national gaps between political power in our countries and the peoples of Europe. It is not true that the distance between Europe and citizens would be enormous when it would be very small in our national systems. You know very well that this is not the case. We said, starting with our mandate, that Europe should be big on big things, to be big on big things and small, model and timid on small things. The Commission, which I chair, is launching 23 new initiatives a year. The previous Commission launched 130 new initiatives per year. We are focusing on the essential things: digital Europe, capital market Europe, energy Europe, defence Europe. The concerns of the segments show that Europe is dealing with the essential things, not with the daily nitty-gritty, where we are bothering people without bringing real solutions to their problems. No one asked me about the ecodesign. There are Greens, though, right here? Yes, that's it! But again, we have abolished what is not to be done in Europe, and we have focused on what is essential. The issue of defence is essential. Several of you have put it down. You see, I'm not very inclined to read the world through a general's glasses. When you were Prime Minister of Luxembourg, you have a different approach in relation to the armed forces, which in our country do not even take the plural, but rather the small singular. The Luxembourg army is 771 soldiers, including the Minister of Defence. So I never wanted to intervene too much in this debate, but now, in Europe, I have to do it. This is not an immediate competence of the Commission, since it falls within the competence of the Member States. We have 180 weapons systems in Europe. The Americans have 30. We spend half of the US military budget, but we only have a 12% efficiency rate. So we will have to put our public procurement together when it comes to buying weapons systems. We can save between EUR 25 billion and EUR 100 billion a year if we focus on the essentials and make sure we cooperate better. Mr. Miller called me. I regularly watch Belgian television, because you are among those who prevent me from sleeping on Sunday morning, as I navigate between RTL and RTBF. Both shows are worth it. There are too many people and too many disputes. So it is very difficult to follow them, even if you have a good knowledge of Voltaire's language. But I watch these shows from my bed, because on Sunday morning I do not go to Mass; I sleep! Finally, it should not be told to the party, but they also do not go to mass on Sunday morning. They should pray more often for themselves and for us. I applaud the intentions of Charles Michel, who launched this investment pact in Belgium, between the central power – if I may say so – and the federated entities. We have already introduced an investment clause into the Stability Pact's reading grid from which Member States taking this direction can benefit. However, excluding investment from the application of the Stability Pact at first glance is tantamount to opening Pandora's box. As we have proposed a European Defence Plan, I have proposed to exclude from the application of the Pact the national sums that would be dedicated to military research, which will reach 500 million in the next few years. Why not exclude development aid expenditures? As I explained to the US Vice-President yesterday, this narrow and narrow view of stability policies, which consists only of looking at defence policy, is an incomplete perception of the organization of the future of the world. Stability and expenditure on humanitarian and development policies serve the same purpose as military expenditures. Like Charles Michel and the Belgian Government, I am in favour of more frequent use of enhanced cooperation. If you call it "multi-speed Europe", we already have it. I can no longer accept, particularly on migration issues, that some Member States do not participate in the implementation of decisions to which they have contributed. Therefore, I do not want Member States to be able to block those who wish to go further, reflecting the ambitions of the citizens they represent in national parliaments. Belgium's role is essential, because in order to be so complicated, it can better understand the wealth and diversity of others. I attach enormous importance – as I am the work of the Flemish, Brussels and Walloon parliaments – to the liveliness of regional reality in the states organised in a similar way to Belgium. Indeed, no country in Europe is organized in such a complicated way as Belgium. Regional inspiration is an essential dimension. The Commission shall pay due attention to this. As far as Africa is concerned, we have launched an external investment plan of 44 billion, investments to be made by European companies and states in Africa. It is not enough to save the lives of the unfortunate who cross the oceans; it is necessary to fight the causes of migration, where the causes can be combated. Europe must therefore invest more in Africa, since Africa is a continent of the future. Europe is an old continent. The average age of Europeans is 44.3 years. Within thirty years, we will be even older than all others, while Africa remains young as the average age of Africans is 23.2 years. Europe is losing the demographic race. At the beginning of the 20th century, Europeans accounted for 20% of the total population. At the end of this century, there are 4% Europeans out of ten billion. It is not time to divide ourselves into national or even provincial categories; it is time to strengthen ourselves by working together.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-21-54-commissie-ic600x.u23	Mr President, thank you. If I may, I will speak in Dutch. First of all, I would like to thank you. I would like to thank the Belgian Parliament and the regional parliaments for their support for the proposal to amend the Posting of Workers Directive. We have launched a proposal. I was able to launch this with the very strong support of the President of the Commission. It's a focused proposal, as you know. It is specifically about remuneration in the system of secondment. The essence is that the rules on remuneration generally applicable to local workers should also apply to posted workers. For us, this is a question of justice and clarity in the legislation. We want to ensure that legislation is properly enforced in this way. Our proposal is a balanced one. I would like to remind you that it is not made of what is sometimes thought in some other parliaments to make a gap between one part of Europe and another. It is precisely because there was a gap, and because citizens' confidence in the free movement of workers and the posting of workers was languishing, that we made this proposal. We need citizens' confidence in order to guarantee posted workers and the free movement of services and persons in the future. That is why we must ensure that everything is done in accordance with fair rules. This is also fully in line with our desire for greater convergence in Europe and, as you know, this must be upward convergence. Together with the Enforcement Directive and the platform against undeclared work, this should ensure that justice is achieved. There was also a question about the calendar and when we expect it. The two legislators are working very hard: the European Parliament on the one hand and the Council of Ministers on the other. The European Parliament's timetable provides for a vote in the Employment Committee at the end of July this year. In the Council, we continue to work. The Maltese Presidency believes that it can arrive at a comprehensive approach for the end of its term of office as President of the Council. Let's hope all this goes as planned. We could then start the trialogue this year. The second issue related to worker mobility is the coordination of social security. We have made a proposal, but we still need to appoint a rapporteur in the European Parliament. In the Council, we have already started work. I hope, if there is good will, that we can make progress. In any case, we are prepared to do what we are asked to do to help, to support, to play the role we can still play in the progress of these two dossiers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-21-54-commissie-ic600x.u24	Thank you, Mrs Thyssen. Ladies and gentlemen, I think I can be your interpreter if I express my thanks to Mr Juncker, President of the European Commission, for the exchange of ideas we have had here. I also noticed that our parliamentarians can really limit themselves to one minute. And you, Mr. Juncker, did not avoid giving true answers. You have even spoken-true and spoken-franc and I can only thank you wholeheartedly for your presence here. May I ask you to join me here with the Speaker of the Senate in the middle of this House and, in memory of your visit, I present you with a medal from our Parliament.
