ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-02-54-plenair-ip155x.u1	The meeting is open. The meeting was opened.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-02-54-plenair-ip155x.u2	Prime Minister, this week King Filip felt it necessary to read the levites shamelessly in his speech to the established and unfamiliar bodies, two friendly countries, the United Kingdom and the United States, as if they had to answer to us for their democratically supported choices. Prime Minister, it is urgent that someone make it clear to Filip that it is not up to a head of state without any democratic legitimacy to lecture a majority of voters in other countries. This government, we know, and the rest of the political elite in Europe are against the Brexit and against the temporary entry ban in the US, because the population might wonder why it is not doing so in Europe. However, that does not mean that a king should descend to the questionable level of Guy Verhofstadt and Donald Tusk, who, as it were, portray Trump as the bearable devil, without making a distinction between IS and USA. Without going into the points of view, they are going to talk about hatred and anti-Trumphystery, as we will probably hear in the debate afterwards. What did King Filip say? Filip, himself resident of a palace behind very high walls, said in his speech that there is no point in building walls. The cookie box king added that British and American voters are blamed for nostalgia. Prime Minister, the King's speeches must be covered by the government. Has that also been done by the entire government? Why didn't anyone in this government protect Filip from making such ejectors? I would particularly like to ask whether the N-VA agrees with such an attack on the democracy and sovereignty of other countries.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-02-54-plenair-ip155x.u3	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have a Constitution in our country. That Constitution is particularly clear: it is the responsibility of the government, and therefore of the Prime Minister, to give the King political cover. It is a tradition in our country that in January there is a reception in the palace. That is the opportunity to make two speeches, one by the King and one by the Prime Minister. I hereby confirm to the Chamber that I, as Prime Minister, have given my political support to the King's speech. That's done and clear. There is no discussion about this in the Council of Ministers. That's our tradition in Belgium. There will be a personal conversation between the Prime Minister and the King. In short, we have implemented the Constitution and respected tradition. In substance, we have made a number of points in these speeches. I think you are misinterpreting the content of our speeches. It was important to reiterate that strong confidence in the institutions is a crucial issue for the future, in Belgium but also at international level.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-02-54-plenair-ip155x.u4	Prime Minister, today it is fashionable not to drink alcohol for a month or not to eat meat for a month. But apparently we're still a month away from talking about the President of the United States. I can't even have a day without a hymn here. I understand you're having a hard time with someone like President Trump, someone who, after the elections, effectively performs what he said before the elections he would do. That's not common here, that's right. However, that does not mean that you should involve the King, who should be politically neutral, in your communication strategy. If King Filip wants to do politics, he should abdicate his throne and be on a list of electoral candidates. He better take an example of President Trump. The President of the United States renounces his presidential prey of $400 000. I don't think this has ever been the case with royal donations.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-02-54-plenair-ip155x.u5	Prime Minister, you may not be surprised that the tenor of my question is quite different from that of the previous speaker. In fact, I actually thought the king was fantastic, surprisingly good.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-02-54-plenair-ip155x.u6	I like you, too, Mr Calvo. Excellent even!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-02-54-plenair-ip155x.u7	Thank you. I'm even sorry the King didn't write your first announcement last weekend. After all, the King came to the point about these terrible, inhumane Trump measures, more clearly than the first weak reaction of you, Mr Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-02-54-plenair-ip155x.u8	Ah, less good.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-02-54-plenair-ip155x.u9	Prime Minister, we know why you have to respond with the hand brake on the issue. A large Flemish party struggles with Trump. An important Flemish newspaper today asks the question: what does the N-VA really think about Donald Trump? My fellow Members from CD&V and Open Vld have rightly mentioned this in recent days. Mr De Roover, the N-VA has said the most ugly things about Angela Merkel in recent months. She was even held directly responsible for terrible events. Everything could be said about this; De Wever could not remain silent about Angela Merkel. However, we do not hear about Donald Trump. If a Flemish-Brabant municipality with 15 000 inhabitants forgets a day to set up a nativity scene, it is a state case for the N-VA. However, if the United States of America refuses access on the basis of their name and origin, there will be no clear message from the largest Flemish party. Prime Minister, I would like to invite you today to release the hand brake and to be clear for hundreds of ten percent. Yesterday I also asked you to ensure that these measures do not have an impact on our compatriots. You assured me yesterday that there will be no impact. Earlier this week, the journey and competition of our taekwondo heroes were mortgaged by the United States; they were suddenly no longer welcome. Today there is a second story, ladies and gentlemen, and that concludes me. A son of a fellow politician, someone with an Arabic name and even Belgian nationality, 150 % Belgian, who wants to blow out after his exams, is suddenly told that his trip to the United States cannot continue. So, Prime Minister, these measures also have an impact on compatriots. Here's my next question. What will you do for that? Please be clear, do not let Flemish nationalists do you, do not let Trump's subcontractors in our country do you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-02-54-plenair-ip155x.u10	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I thought Mr Calvo's introduction was excellent. I would almost say, thanks to the King, we can once in a while applaud Mr Calvo once in a while. However, Prime Minister, I would like to look to the future. I believe that the President of the European Union, Donald Tusk, has clearly set out in a letter the threats to the European Union of the new geopolitical situation. It would perhaps be a good thing if the President of the European Union were to pull a little more weight for what should happen in the coming months and years. The geopolitical situation is worrying. There is China, there is Russia and we know their ambitions. Unfortunately, on our continent, we were already confronted with the phenomenon of terrorism. There is the migration crisis around the Mediterranean. I believe that there is increasing uncertainty among our people, uncertainty that populists are gratefully using. When I was very little, I listened to an American president who declared: "Ich bin ein Berliner. Twenty years later, another president said about the same wall: "Mister Gorbachev, tear down this wall." Today we see a phenomenon in which an American president crawls in protectionism and thinks that he will be able to face the world by raising walls. Mr Prime Minister, my question to you is as follows. There will be an informal European summit in Malta. We must use this summit and all the forthcoming European meetings to respond to the threats. It is not by establishing what is not going on the other side of the Atlantic that we will solve the problems here. So there is a very clear wake-up call for Europe, for the European Union. I think that wake-up call should focus on three challenges, the core business of the European Union. Firstly, there is migration and asylum. We have the Geneva Convention, but it does not relieve us of our duty to protect our external borders. Secondly, there is the military alliance. We have been hiding under the American umbrella for too long and have not wondered what we should do within Europe and what investments should be made within the European Union within the defence pillar. We must dare to go further in this respect. Thirdly, there is also foreign trade, the core business of Europe. With the Brexit that is emphasized again. How can we ensure that our companies' export opportunities are safeguarded? Prime Minister, these are the three challenges that I believe you will have to face in the next few days and weeks to be the forerunner of the European Union, as is the tradition of our country. Let us make the threat of the crisis an opportunity. Crisis is a challenge and you must take the lead with our country in a stronger European Union. My question is what concrete action you will take at the informal summit in Malta.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-02-54-plenair-ip155x.u11	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, if I were an American citizen, I would have been able to determine the outcome of the elections in the United States in November. If I were an American judge, I would be able to see very closely today where the US rule of law might be reached or even crossed. If I were an American member of the Senate or of the House of Representatives, today I could keep an eye on where and how the role of legislative power should be played. You won't be surprised, I'm not the only one in the hemisphere that I'm not one of three. That is why I think it is appropriate to insist on correct restraint in the assessment of the outcome of a democratic process, which seems to have caused some eyebrow frenzy on Mr Calvo. Prime Minister, this restraint must and should be expected from all our institutions. Respect for sovereignty is a building block in the international order and we must not give the impression that in this already modest hemisphere we have to play the world leader, with the necessary pathos of which we have just seen an example, with the moral superiority of which the nuance in particular is the victim. Such attempts to come here to play a little world leader may, at best, create amazement. If you do not pay attention, ladies and gentlemen, you are simply making a fool of yourself. Our line in international policy is: what is the impact on our society? What's the impact on what's happening to us? That must be the starting point. Against the background of the first steps taken by the US President, we see in particular two of them. The first is in the field of defence. For decades, we've been freelancers behind Uncle Sam's broad back. Those times may be over, with all the consequences and consequences of that. If Europe wants to be an influential voice, this will have to be done on the basis of force and not on the basis of press releases or resolutions. Secondly, ladies and gentlemen, my group wishes to express its concern about President Trump's trade policy or what has been announced of it, which would de facto amount to the implementation of Mr Magnette's and the Left's policies in this hemisphere. We are very concerned about that. Hence my question, Prime Minister. What will be the attitude of our country to remain on speaking terms with a crucial, long-standing ally, in view of the challenges we may face directly? In doing so, let us not throw the child away with the bathwater in this difficult exercise of transatlantic relations, because if Trump is in doubt about its importance, then we must not fall into that trap.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-02-54-plenair-ip155x.u12	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in recent months we have been faced with an important evolution in the international sphere. There was the UK's choice for a Brexit a few months ago. This was an important moment in the history of the European Union. A few months later, there was an important democratic moment with the election of Donald Trump. I assume that everyone agrees that we must show respect for the electorate's choice in a great democracy such as the UK or the US. At the same time, we are also aware that this is an important moment for Europe to ask questions, but also a moment to give the right concrete answers. It is our country's commitment to remain calm and rational at European and international level, but also to provide concrete solutions and support solutions from our partners at European and international level. I'm giving you a few concrete commitments. With regard to migration policy decisions in the US, we immediately reacted clearly, including at diplomatic level. I want to be clear about that. I said it yesterday and I repeat it today: Foreign Affairs and our diplomatic advisers are available to give their concrete and individual support to those who would be in difficulty after the decisions taken in the US. Turning to the future of transatlantic relations, on the one hand, and the future of the EU, on the other. I am convinced, regardless of the political situation in the US today, that transatlantic relations remain particularly important for three reasons. Firstly, transatlantic relations are important for strong economic development. We must support and defend our interests. We must develop and defend our economic vision at international level. Secondly, transatlantic relations are important for internal and external security. It is also crucial to maintain a good relationship in an open dialogue with the new partners, with the new administration in the US. Thirdly, transatlantic relations are important for geopolitics. Perhaps there will be an evolution in the great balances. What about Russia? What about China? Europe must play a stronger role there. Over the last few months in Europe, we have faced crucial challenges for ourselves, but also for our children. I am thinking of the situation in southern Europe. Look at the problems with refugees a few months ago and their effects on Europe. I am thinking of the situation at the socio-economic level, the job creation, the relance, the investments to offer a positive perspective to our young people. That is also a crucial commitment. Of course there is also the problem of migration, with a strong control of our external borders, more exchange between our intelligence services. These must be concrete commitments. Finally, it is of course important to discuss at European level, but at some point we have to take concrete decisions and decide what is important. I share the argument that there are three main areas. Firstly, job creation, growth and relance, provide a perspective for our young people. Secondly, external and internal security, with more capacity and more resources. Thirdly, a clear choice and strong commitment to migration. Ladies and gentlemen, those are the points I am going to defend in Malta. This delicate moment can be a momentum, of which I am convinced, to take steps in the right direction, without naivety or nostalgia, to see what is priority for the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-02-54-plenair-ip155x.u13	Mr President, Prime Minister, I hope that our diplomatic services will follow with great attention the specific cases we have seen in recent days. I take it that you think that's very important, too. Secondly, with regard to Europe, we ecologists are the first to cross national and linguistic boundaries. We do this every day in this Parliament. Yes, more Europe, but if we do not want to create more Trumps, it must be a Europe for people and the environment, a Europe that looks at the rest of the world, that deals with the rest of the world, but also pays attention to the many losers of globalisation. Finally, if we want to be that voice in Europe, then you can only say very clearly to Mr De Roover that he has just made a total mistake, but he has also made a complete mistake. He's wrong about enemy and especially friend. I do not understand, Mr De Roover, that in those two minutes you do not mention measures contrary to our standards and values, which are contrary to universal human rights. I don't understand. I honestly do not understand that you are here to say that you are concerned about trade, but you are not saying anything about these matters. Prime Minister, I would really like to invite you. It should not be the N-VA that determines the tone of Belgium. Please don't... [[Rumor]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-02-54-plenair-ip155x.u14	Let Mr Calvo speak.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-02-54-plenair-ip155x.u15	Please do not let the N-VA determine Belgium's voice in Europe, because then there will be a lot of losers. Yeah, I'm a Democrat, too. Democrat also means that if people are refused at the border on the basis of their origins, their name or what they look like, Mr De Roover, then they stand up as democrats. Mr President, we should not try to understand such things. We should not try to place such matters in context. We must condemn such cases. That is why we are reaching out to all the democratic groups in this hemisphere. We are taking an initiative to adopt a clear resolution on what is now happening in the US, following Austria's example with this Parliament. That invitation has just reached all the political groups. We invite everyone, including you, Mr De Roover, to join us on Monday to say to all Belgian democrats that we do not want Trump. Not in our name!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-02-54-plenair-ip155x.u16	Mr President, let us pay attention to expressing too much moral indignation and perhaps rather opt for practical answers. I will certainly align my sense of morality with our own actions. May I quote, Prime Minister, the example of a minister of your government who belongs to my party? He has set up an international fund with other countries to safeguard the fundamental right to sexual health and family planning in response to the conservative turn of events in the United States of America. I can't always address it to you. He just happens to be sitting in front of me right now. He will shortly be organising an international conference on this subject in Brussels. On behalf of my group, but I think not only on behalf of mine, I say bravo for that. That is practically moral action and show what we, Belgium and Europe, stand for. That's 100 times more powerful than yet another outraged tweet. Bravo!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-02-54-plenair-ip155x.u17	Mr President, in an attempt not to want to be a world leader here and with the predicted... I had predicted it, Mr Calvo Calvo, it seems as if I had already read your reply that you would come up with a resolution that will undoubtedly lead to the waves of the Atlantic. I am very pleased, Prime Minister, that there is effective diplomatic action if compatriots are taken by certain measures. This goes without saying and is the correct attitude that the government can and must adopt in these specific cases. Without judging American policy, we can, of course, draw some lessons from it. President Trump responds to a number of legitimate concerns, but we must be careful to ensure that America demonstrates that, if we neglect these concerns, people will be given the freedom to find solutions that are likely to be different from those that we would like to put forward in a democratic consensus. However, there is also a justified fear, about the content of the report, which we have to consider on a case-by-case basis, but above all about the style and approach of the new US President, with his emphasis on impulsiveness, which threatens to come down to the fear of destabilization. Stability, however, is a very high standard on the international stage. Therefore, Prime Minister, before you get on the plane to Malta, I would like to give you the following. Checks and balances are important. In the United States of America, the Länder play a particularly important role in this. Let us be very happy that the United States is not a centralised superstate. Let us be happy that the Länder will be able to provide the necessary counterweight if necessary. That is an important but very useful message to take to Malta.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-02-54-plenair-ip155x.u18	Prime Minister, for the first time since 2008, the social partners have succeeded in reaching an interprofessional agreement. It is an agreement on the margin of pay, the margin within which our wages will be able to increase over the next two years. There is 1.1 % on the indexing and the baremic increases, and then we take into account a safety margin that we can then grant. This is good news not only for social peace in our country but also for consumption, for the expenditure that families can spend on it. It is also important that this story has eliminated the labour cost handicap of our country since 1996. Four years ago we had a handicap of almost 5%, today we are competitive in terms of labour costs with Germany, the Netherlands and France. Prime Minister, that your policy is delivering results is not just what we are saying. One should look at the cover of the magazine Knack today to see it. You were looking for jobs, jobs, jobs. Well, there it is now: the jobs, jobs, jobs are there. There are 6 % fewer unemployed, 26.4% more vacancies. This is thanks to your employment policy. Your policy is paying off. Prime Minister, the lowest pensions will also gain from this agreement. The welfare envelope will be placed as a priority in the category of people it currently desperately needs. You know, ladies and gentlemen, that there was a comment on the bridge pension, the SWT. Now the social partners have finally concluded an agreement within the framework we set out two years ago. We have given them the choice of how fast the journey goes to 60 years in the case of restructuring. They choose the slow path. This will also mean that they will have to speed up afterwards. That's their choice. But let us be clear, the government and Parliament set the framework together, two years ago, as democrats, and the social partners have made their agreement neatly within this framework. As far as we're concerned:Pacta sunt servanda. We will stick to our part of the commitment and we will fully support this IPA. Prime Minister, do you have a consensus within the government, and what is the next step?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-02-54-plenair-ip155x.u19	Mr President, Prime Minister, Minister for Work, it was good news when we heard this afternoon that the government will implement the interprofessional agreement in its entirety. It is a balanced agreement, Mr Lachaert has already referred to it. The highest wage increase in years is included in this agreement, but also the raising of the lowest pensions and benefits. Once again, these people get an increase. Thirdly, this is happening within certain limits to which Mr Lachaert has also referred, within the framework set out by the government on bridge pensions and runways. Correct agreements have been made. There's a fourth, at least as important hatch. There is a commitment to agree on a number of difficult dossiers in the short term and before the summer, such as youth employment, mobility budget, burn-out and so on. It is a balanced agreement that will increase purchasing power, allowing our companies to further create additional jobs. The partners have been very loyal and have negotiated within the framework of laws that we are discussing today, which have not yet been adopted. Then it is only logical that the government should be very loyal. It is good that the government will implement this in its entirety, because it will ensure social peace and the much-needed social and economic stability. Everyone's gonna be okay with that. Mr Prime Minister, you promised that the agreement would be implemented, but does that also concern the fourth part? Were there any arrangements made to make further progress on this?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-02-54-plenair-ip155x.u20	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, two years ago this government took important socio-economic decisions. We are now approaching half the legislature. This is excellent news. I share an important message, in particular the fact that an agreement was made in the G10. This is a positive signal for social peace in the future, for stability, for the attractiveness of our country to make additional economic and social progress. That is our commitment, that is our reasoning, that is our strategy. I come to my specific answers. First step, we will honour and implement this agreement. The second step, an important step, concerns the role of the relevant ministers; they will take action in consultation with the G10. Thirdly, budgetary control; we will make a final budgetary assessment in the context of budgetary control and, if necessary, take the necessary measures, in accordance with our country's traditional budgetary commitments. So that's positive news, it's definitely heading in the right direction. It is also a signal that competitiveness is in balance. The fact that this agreement was concluded under the new law of 1996 is also very important. An additional element is the welfare envelope as the social challenge for the future. Here too, the government and the relevant ministers will play an important role. It is moving in the right direction and we are positive and optimistic. We hope that this agreement will enable us to achieve additional positive social and economic results in the coming months, because more jobs remain our commitment.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-02-54-plenair-ip155x.u21	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your reply. Together, we are pleased that the agreement of the social partners can be honoured within the framework we have established and within the general philosophy of the government team working on it. The government has had to take some less popular measures in recent years. An index jump doesn't happen with a full appetite. However, such measures are effective, and that is what we are seeing today. Thanks to the courage that has been put forward, results can be presented today. I can only congratulate you and encourage you to pursue your policy. Dear friends, one cannot build a social paradise on an economic graveyard, with which I repeat a statement by Willy De Clercq. We need an economic stimulus and then we will come to a social paradise.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-02-54-plenair-ip155x.u22	Mr Prime Minister, I thank you for your reply and encourage you to work quickly on what you have committed yourself to. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you to ensure that social peace returns in the coming months. We must give the social partners the time they need to implement the agreements in the sectors and in companies. Some time and social rest will be beneficial and beneficial to create a good breeding ground for a good social climate. If all these things are good to us, then we will not only implement that agreement, but also commit ourselves to continuing along the path of social dialogue and not to choose the path of the social conflict.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-02-54-plenair-ip155x.u23	Mr President, Minister, the workers of Bombardier Brugge have had a very cold shower this week. Half of the 500 workers must start to fear for their jobs. The European Executive Board is considering removing a whole part of the production from Bruges and redirecting it to the French Crespin. In our jargon we call that a branch slowly undressing. Minister, in 2015 an order was placed for 445 double deck trains by SNCB. This offered job security for the location in Bruges until 2021 and even until 2025. That job guarantee wasn't just an oral promise. No, that job guarantee is in writing in the addendum to Chapter 5 of the Guide. An addendum is an official thing. That addendum states that the trains will be made in Bruges, from the beginning to the end. The European Executive Board now wants to unilaterally terminate that contract. SNCB did not sign that contract amendment. A signature still has something to say and a contract is not a piece of paper. I therefore have two questions on behalf of all the concerned workers, Minister. How are you going to ensure that the contract, in which the aircraft will be produced in Bruges from start to finish, is complied with and that there is no breach of contract? I call on you, together with your colleague Bellot, the custody minister of SNCB, to intercede to stop this relocation to France, because this was not the original intention of the contract.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-02-54-plenair-ip155x.u24	Mrs Lambrecht, congratulations on your maiden speech.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-02-54-plenair-ip155x.u25	Jobs, jobs, jobs! How weird, how weird, how weird should those words sound in Bruges right now? Jobs, jobs, jobs. How weird are those words supposed to sound with Bombardier? You're just living in another world, you just can't understand what's happening at Bombardier today. You're laughing at that. You don't even understand what that means. 250 people will lose their jobs in Bruges and the N-VA will laugh at that. Hahaha, hahaha. A little social sentiment, my dear fellow Members? The worst thing is that Bombardier has made a profit of EUR 34 million. That's what Belgium is about. They don't fire 250 people because they don't make a profit. No, the company does make a profit. Why? Because they want to give 9 to 10 % return to all these pension funds in Canada. This way we cannot continue our job creation in Belgium. I've seen a lot of anger with the fellow Members of this House, with all those people in Bruges. They say that it is not possible for their establishment, despite the great knowledge they have of building all those trains, to be in danger. Those people are saying that this is just not possible. Why? Because there was a promise on paper that jobs would be preserved until 2021. In Belgium, however, a promise from the patronage is worth nothing. It cannot go on like this, ladies and gentlemen. The Minister has a meeting tomorrow with Bombardier's leadership. I want to know exactly what he's gonna say. Because of that 34 million euro profit, Bombardier paid zero taxes in Belgium and received 12 million euros of notional interest. How many gifts are we going to give to the companies that do not create jobs for us in Belgium? Mr. Secretary, you have a meeting tomorrow at 9 a.m. What are you going to say to the command of Bombardier? Are you just gonna admit there's nothing you can do? Or are you going to say that the jobs should be preserved in the industry in Belgium? Let us not continue with the gift policy and let us go for a real industrial policy in Belgium.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-02-54-plenair-ip155x.u26	Popularism, populism, populism, Mr Hedebouw! Let us return to the facts. After JLG in Maasmechelen, Mr Terwingen, there are 250 jobs back on the slope at Bombardier in Bruges. Yes, there was a guarantee from international management that 250 jobs could remain in our Bruges branch until 2021. Now, however, it has not yet been decided that all kinds of things of production, such as painting, welding and management, would suddenly be transferred to France. Only assembly, testing and extradition would remain in our location in Bruges. I'd like to talk to you about those M7 double-deck trains. About a year ago, a nice contract was signed with Minister Bellot to have those double-deck trains made by Bombardier. Indeed, there was effective planning then, a planning based on quality. Since the Brugse branch could offer this quality, it was clear that from rough construction to delivery the train set could be made at the Brugse branch. Minister, I will ask you to defend this later. But there are also trams, 145 trams. On the advice of SNCB, Minister Weyts awarded this order to the Spanish company CAF. We are in favour of the free market, this must be done, but if the Council of State's auditor says last week that there is something wrong with this contract because once again the maintenance of those trains has not been taken into account, with the quality of the Bruges establishment, then I think that we should call on Minister Weyts to act on the board of that auditor and to re-launch this order. Five hundred people work in our Bruges department. Five hundred families live off Bombardier. That is why I have three questions, Minister. Would you like to engage with the international board of directors in talks with the union? Would you like to work with Minister Bellot to ensure that the schedule designed to make these trains in Bruges is implemented? Can you join the cart so that Minister Weyts follows the opinion of the Council of State auditor and opens the order back?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-02-54-plenair-ip155x.u27	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, it is, of course, a very, very sad thing that Bombardier has announced a global restructuring plan and also wants to reduce it in Bruges. We must not only sympathise with the workers who see their jobs at risk, we must also look at how we can give them concrete solutions. I will see the President of Bombardier Transportation Belgium tomorrow, at his request. On that occasion, I will put a number of clear elements on the table. Firstly, as Mr Lambrecht and other fellow Members have expressly pointed out here, it cannot be that we are facing a death home construction in Bruges. We're gonna drain some people now. In a second period we will then completely downsize this. In other words, the Bruges department is going to be turned into a sales agency. I don't think this is possible. I will strongly support the further development of industrial activity in Bruges. Secondly, Mr Bellot has made clear agreements on the M7 trains that the contracts must be complied with. Pacta sunt servanda, these are fixed contracts and one cannot just get out of them. Clear agreements have been made on the production sites to be produced by the M7 train sets. I will do everything I can to make it clear to them that the contracts must also be respected here in Belgium. I also believe that we should call for the retention of supplementary activities in Bruges, as has just been underlined, in order to ensure that the workers who have a great deal of know-how can continue to do a wonderful job there. I will listen very carefully to the response of the President of Bombardier. I will also contact the employees' representatives. I would also be very happy to stay in touch with those Members who follow this dossier very closely and rightly pay a great deal of attention to it. Of course, together with Mr Bellot, I will also look at the contract with SNCB. As regards the question about Mr Weyts, I think it is very important to join forces here at the various levels. In the city of Bruges the mayor and the ships have already been active. The order of De Lijn must also be spoken in clear language at Flemish level. The federal level must also join forces. I will do everything I can, together with my fellow Members, to ensure that the maximum level of employment is maintained in Bruges, and certainly in the company in question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-02-54-plenair-ip155x.u28	Mr President, Minister, many know it, but I would like to stress once again that it is not just a business. It is about a company, namely Bombardier Bruges, which is the most productive and profitable and also delivers the highest quality. Minister, I see a great deal of goodwill in your reply, for which I would like to thank you. However, hundreds of workers and their families are now in the dark. They count on the courage and perseverance of the government and certainly of both ministers. Minister, we are increasingly seeing workers becoming victims of internationalisation in industry, which is no longer fair. Today we hear the news about Bombardier; we heard about JLG Maasmechelen and we heard about ING and the shameless profit forecast today. We hear other stories day after day. It can no longer be that we proclaim the motto "jobs, jobs, jobs" and do nothing, even if there are flagrant breach of contract. Minister, I have repeatedly pointed out that a contract is not a piece of paper. Let us therefore take very strict action against such breaches of contract.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-02-54-plenair-ip155x.u29	Mr President, Minister, we need to look more closely at the causes of what is happening in Bruges. How can a company or industry expect 8 to 9 % profitability figures today? That's just destroying jobs, just to raise money for the pension funds. Minister, we must not let our rules depend on such figures. You must make that clear tomorrow. You must defend those jobs against the profits of such a company. Minister, you should also be able to say at European level that this is the failure of our savings policy. After all, what happens at Caterpillar? What's happening at Bombardier? It is simply the case that there is less and less investment in public services and that there is less and less buying buses, trams and trains globally in Europe, which means that this industry disappears. As for the motto "jobs, jobs, jobs," I ask for quality jobs to be created. After all, it is not difficult to divide 100 000 good jobs into two and create 200 000 fake jobs with them. That is what the current government is doing. You're already working on flexible jobs and McDonald'sjobs. However, we must go for real jobs, such as in Bruges, and real quality jobs, such as at Bombardier. Minister, I hope that you will convey to the Executive Board clearly the previous morning.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-02-54-plenair-ip155x.u30	Thank you, Minister, for your clear commitment. I also hope that Minister Weyts will accept your outstretched hand to renegade the coastal tram contract, not just for that oh so important employment. I also hope that these trams and trains can be made in our Bruges branch, because I do not want a second Fyra story.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-02-54-plenair-ip155x.u31	Mr. President, Minister, we know that you love the private sector, marketing and communication gadgets. Moreover, no longer say Belgian technical cooperation (BTC), say Enabel. And between Enabel and Unable, there is only one step, which will soon make Cooperation incapable of fulfilling its missions. After the removal of the Belgian Food Security Fund, after the threats to the three projects in the North of the CTB, namely the programme Annoncer la couleur, Infocycle and the Department of Fair Trade, the fact that NGOs have been under unacceptable pressure for months in a legal blur, we learn that it is 30 million additional savings per year that will be imposed on the NGO sector. These 30 million per year are in addition to the linear savings decided since this legislature, linear savings that forecast 150 million savings in 2015, and up to 270 million in 2019. Minister, do you confirm these new fiscal savings measures? Which departments will be affected by these new budget cuts? With these additional savings, what percentage of our GDP will actually be spent on official development assistance? What consultation has been carried out with the sector? And how can we explain this form of blackmail that is unacceptable to the NGO sector?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-02-54-plenair-ip155x.u32	Minister, you are an ambitious Minister for Development Cooperation. Your red line through development policy is not ours. I have already told you that it is rather a blue line, even though I admit that you have ambition. Ambition is needed to meet the ever-changing world and the challenges associated with it. There are also means of achieving ambition, Minister. Just before Christmas we animated the budgets discussed. We then voted on it. However, we are only four weeks away in the new financial year, and we are already aware that more needs to be saved or, as you say, that there will be even more underutilisation. You announced at the beginning of the legislature that a billion euros would be saved. In the meantime, you have already spent a little less money due to underutilisation. In the 2016 Solidarity Note, a table containing an estimate of underutilisation for the coming years was included. The note also included a calculation of the planned total underutilisation for this legislature. The result was 609 million euros. In your view, therefore, there is still a margin on top of the announced savings of EUR 1 billion. Mr Minister, the Court of Auditors stated in 2016 that the removal of funds through structural underutilisation is also a form of savings. According to the Court of Auditors, it weakens our international cooperation, because the predictability of aid is essential in order to be able to work efficiently. In the 2016 solidarity note, I did find the 2017 table, but not the 2016. It was gone, gone. To our surprise, it has come to our attention that you are choosing to make additional savings on development cooperation through underutilisation. Hence a few questions, Minister. Is there another underutilisation planned on top of the previously announced savings? What amounts are we talking about? How do you want to save further without breaking our country's existing commitments, because you have made a number of commitments? Will agreements with partner countries also be maintained? Will the agreement with the Belgian NGOs be maintained and respected?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-02-54-plenair-ip155x.u33	Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for the question. The fact that a budget is not fully spent, that a small part of the budget is not spent, is not new. The use of budgetary circulars to achieve the budgetary targets has never been different in recent years. Indeed, for this year it is assumed that a proportion of 120 million will not be spent on development cooperation. Between 2010 and 2016, the average underutilisation was 154 million. This year, that amount will be lower than the average between 2010 and 2016. Why is that? We often work on development cooperation in difficult circumstances, in countries with particularly high instability, where it is often very difficult to develop projects. We have teams on the ground, who do everything in our power to carry out the projects, but sometimes we are faced with a fulfilled fact and choose not to carry out a project rather than to carry it out in bad conditions, when it would have little effect. I would stress that the non-implementation of the efforts we will make this year will be less than the average between 2010 and 2016. I am in agreement with all the partners to see how we can distribute this in the most correct way for the different policy instruments. Mrs Grovonius, I am somewhat surprised by your indignation. Indeed, I told you that the average over the previous seven years was 154 million. In 2012, a champion of underutilization did not spend 384 million. As a result, 27 per cent of the budget was not used. At the time, the Minister for Development Cooperation was Paul Magnette. He was the champion of underutilization. Don't come and teach me a lesson! In my view, what we are doing is quite reasonable and corresponds to the practice of development cooperation.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-02-54-plenair-ip155x.u34	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your answer. I also thank you for your good communication exercise. It is true that you have used us to this kind of exercise. Anyway, with you and your chief of staff, it's always the same! However, between under-utilization of budgets and actual budget cuts, there is a distinction. Today, you are making these additional budget cuts on a department that still needs resources to meet humanitarian, environmental and human challenges. You don't want to hear it. You continue to use Development Cooperation as a budgetary adjustment variable. It's your choice. But you will not blame the PS Group and myself for not agreeing with the policy you are pursuing!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-02-54-plenair-ip155x.u35	Minister, you always refer to the past, but we must look to the future. That's important, perhaps not for you, but it is for me. The debate on underutilisation has been held several times and is actually becoming a non-debate. You insist that they are not savings, but in practice they are, Minister. Moreover, let us not forget that all savings or under-utilisations, as you really conceal, are always at the expense of the organizations and the populations of the South. At the BTC's New Year's reception, you announced a beautiful name "Enabel" and talked for sure about how you want to tackle the big challenges in our partner countries and how Belgium will play its role in paying the SDGs. Well, Minister, that means even less money for more challenges. That's what I hear. Jobs will be lost in the NGOs. The activities will be cut down. You and the sector had agreed on a maximum of savings. If you choose to make even more savings on the hood of the NGOs, you will break word. It's as simple as that.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-02-54-plenair-ip155x.u36	Mr President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, access to health care and respect for patients also depend on respect for future doctors. For more than two years, however, the minister has been witnessing a transfer of responsibilities between you, the Federal Minister for Public Health, and the Minister for Higher Education of the Wallonia-Brussels Federation. You linked the issue of the INAMI number to the students being trained to an entrance examination in the faculties of the Wallonia-Brussels Federation. What is being questioned today by the Council of State is precisely your order. First of all, you are accused of failing to take into account the allocation key strongly recommended by the Planning Commission. And then, the Council of State regrets that you issued this decree after the academic year of September. We are faced with such a situation that students who continue their training are uncertain as to their future, as they do not know whether this exam scheduled for June will be organised. Similarly, those who would like to start their course next September are faced with uncertainty due to a timing problem in the arrangements to be made. The Council of State called for you to use a law rather than an order. It must be noted that the government has proved unable to reach a common position. Madam Minister, out of respect for these students who are undergoing their training and who believe that they could become doctors, out of respect for the patients who will need these future doctors, but also out of respect for our federal and solidarity system which organizes a public health policy, I ask you to tell us what concrete measures you are going to take, to give us specific dates and agendas regarding what you are going to agree with the Minister of Higher Education of the Wallonia-Brussels Federation. Finally, I would like you to stick to these answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-02-54-plenair-ip155x.u37	Mr President, Madam Minister, the saga continues because your government does not want to follow the recommendations of the experts of the Medical Planning Commission, and for the most unacceptable reason, because it is purely Community! I have asked you a number of questions on the subject. Everyone knows that there is a shortage in the south of the country, and not just in rural areas! There have been many testimonies in the media about this. Everyone knows that the quota imposed by the federal government is not based on objective grounds. The Council of State had already pointed out this fact in several decrees. Everyone also knows that these objective bases exist. They have been scientifically developed by the Medical Supply Planning Commission and indicate the need to review the INAMI 40/60 number allocation key in favour of Francophones and move to a 56.5/43.5 key. Finally, everyone knows that your government does not want to take into account the views of experts or of the Council of State. The Legislation section of the Council of State has just rendered a negative opinion on your draft royal decree with a view to imposing a status quo, towards and against everything, pointing out a new mistake, timing this time. You should have taken an initiative by the end of September. It is indeed absurd to allow young students to engage in a six-year course of study and then limit the number of those who will have access to training leading to professional qualifications in medicine. Minister, what do you intend to do about this?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-02-54-plenair-ip155x.u38	Minister, your responsibility as minister and that of the entire government was to define, by royal decree, the quota of INAMI numbers reserved for students who entered medicine on September 1, 2016 and are now in first year. This responsibility is implacable and defined in law. Not only did you have to do it on time and on time, but you also had to do it on an objective basis. You decided you weren't going to do it on an objective basis. In essence, why have the Planning Commission worked so hard to, in any case, despite your great theories of evidence-based, not follow his advice when it does not help you politically? You had to respect the law. What's she saying? You were to take this royal order before September 1, 2016. Today is February 2017; you are completely outlawed! Minister, this is mismanagement, but it is, moreover, particularly unacceptable to students that you insure and destabilize. Thousands of them are involved. Today, I ask you for a clear answer. Even though you are outlawed, are you going to try, by I don't know what pirouette, to define an INAMI quota on a legal basis for students today in the first year of medicine? I ask you to be clear, because the students will suffer the consequences directly. Keeping these students in such uncertainty would not only be irresponsible, but also singularly disrespectful of them.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-02-54-plenair-ip155x.u39	Mr President, Madam Minister, here we are again asking you about the RIZIV numbers. This morning I read a very disturbing press article in Le Soir about the legal clogs in which you got involved. According to the article, some 2 500 medical students in the French Community are unlikely to have to take a selection test in June at the end of their first year. In the French Community it is freedom again, joy. Last summer, the Council of State referred Minister Marcourt's decision to the wastebasket, resulting in no selection test. It's common knowledge. What is less known is that your royal decree has also been referred to the wastebasket. Your royal decision on quotas-2021 was found arbitrary. You have therefore asked for the opinion of the Council of State for your decision on quotas-2022. But now you have two problems. The first problem is that the royal decree should have been published before the beginning of the academic year in particular. The second problem is that the present royal decree will also be found arbitrary. Specifically, there will probably be no selection test. If there is a selection test, it is enough for one student to go to the Council of State, which will destroy your royal decision, with the result: exit selection test. Madam Secretary, what steps will you take to get out of this legal mess? Quid with the admission test in the French Community?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-02-54-plenair-ip155x.u40	Mr President, Mrs Gerkens, Mrs Caprasse, Mrs Fonck, mevrouw Wouters, I thank you for your regular questions and your follow-up on this dossier, which, as we know, has been in many difficulties for years. The starting point in this file is the notification by the Council of Ministers of 15 September 2015 concerning the draft royal decree on medical quotas for 2022. This notification can be summarized as follows: the draft royal decree can be sent to the Council of State for opinion, but can only be submitted at second reading, first, after the working group has found a solution to fix the 2023 quotas and for students who will obtain their diplomas during the period 2017 to 2020 and, second, after the French Community government has approved at second reading a draft decree introducing an entry examination. It was also agreed that there should be consultation between federal authorities and federated entities on certain topics. This last aspect has already been taken up in the Working Group on Health Care Services of the Interministerial Conference on Public Health on 1 February. Following this decision, the draft Royal Decree on Medical Quotas for 2022 was forwarded to the Council of State for its opinion. The Council of State has found that the draft royal decree setting the 2022 quotas will not be taken sufficiently in advance. A legal setting of quotas, as suggested by the Council of State, is technically of little use. Since the preparatory procedure for this legal provision will also not allow for timely publication, this approach also seems unlikely. Mrs Gerkens, the Council of State did not comment on the content of the KB's draft, but merely said that it was too late. I shall come back to the question about not following the opinion of the Planning Committee. Nor has the Council of State made any comment on this. Mrs. Gerkens, you take the literary freedom to write a few things in between. That may be your right, but I do not have to take that into account legally. As I have already indicated, the responsibility of each Community remains unabated in this dossier. Initiatives can be taken by the Communities without a formal decision by the federal government, which allows the number of PhD candidates to be determined by 2022. Mr Marcort knows that, because it is also in his decree. The existing opinion of the Planning Committee is also useful for him. I myself nor the federal government can, given the division of powers, take the place of the French Community Government and certainly not in the place of Mr Marcourt, I would not dare to make a decision in the organisation of the competition at the end of the current academic year. You're saying it's a legal gag. That's right, and it's not gonna get any better. But there are many players in the field and the students are not helped by one or the other. The options that we have after Mr Marcourt's decree on the competition will be adopted will now be taken by the Federal Government for a second opinion to the Council of State. I'll let you know in due course. Mrs Gerkens, as a Member of Parliament, you have many rights, but you do not yet have the right to determine the government's agenda.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-02-54-plenair-ip155x.u41	Minister, obviously it is up to the government to set its agenda. As a parliamentarian, I have among my duties to control the government, if it does what it says it will do and if it does what it has to do. My conclusion is that this is not the case. We never manage to have precise dates, detailed agendas and concrete progress. We're constantly turning the ball back. Why, basically? One of the first reasons is that the way in which physician needs are assessed is not based on a sufficiently reliable and field-related basis. Even when the Planning Commission, which uses statistical information and figures and adopts a dynamic model, makes proposals to you, they are not followed. The provisions for selecting the number of students are undermined because they are not based on objective criteria for assessing the number of doctors required. This is the first of the reasons why successive arrangements are eliminated. The other is that you cannot first set common positions, through joint work leading to concrete measures. It's February 2017. Students don't know what will happen in this area. Future students do not know how to register. The population suffers from the shortage of doctors in many places as well as some specialists in many hospitals. And our public health system is being undermined by all these procrastinations. It's really something I'm drawing your attention to. Without good management and organization, it's the whole system you're facing.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-02-54-plenair-ip155x.u42	Minister, the saga continues. It's a ping pong game. We can't see the end. I want to stress one point, and I am especially speaking to my colleagues in the MR: it is your regions and your communes that are affected by shortages! Hainaut, Luxembourg, are the first victims of this shortage. How do you react within the majority? We never hear you about it. I insist, Madam Minister. We will not let this matter go until there are correct solutions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-02-54-plenair-ip155x.u43	Minister, this situation has been difficult for years. You come to explain this to us and it's true. But by not taking your royal decree as required by law, that is, on time and on time, that is, before the 2016 academic year, you added a major legal uncertainty in this case. It is your responsibility and that of your government. To do this is obviously to make the competition scheduled for June and the entry examination held in September 2016 in the Flemish Community completely insecure. As you understand, it also penalizes all the students involved. You choose not to move forward on a legal basis and to keep this legal vacuum. So you make the choice of insecurity. To get you through this, you only have one solution left. It is to take note of the fact that, on the Dutch-speaking side, things are arranged and that on the French-speaking side, the entrance examination is now planned. A reasonable number must, of course, be defined. This will have to take into account the shortages but also all the foreign Europeans who come here by automatically receiving an INAMI number. You have to do this by guaranteeing an INAMI number to all doctors when they graduate. If you don't do this quickly, you can expect, in the coming months and next summer, to experience new major legal sagas, whose full responsibility will be yours.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-02-54-plenair-ip155x.u44	Mr President, Minister, the Flemings are tired of it. It has been since 1997 that Flemish students have not been able to follow the training of their dreams, and that is very bad. Subject to a great surprise, it seems that there will be no selection test in the French Community at the end of this year. Except for a big surprise. Madam Secretary, you could be that big surprise. You know that, don't you? I would therefore like to quote from that judgment: "It is not certain that the Royal Decree is relevant to the situation to be settled, in particular the planning of the medical offer.' Madam Secretary, you do realize that this is the death sentence for your royal decision, don't you? But this is also the death sentence for all your future decisions. Madam Secretary, there is only one solution. I therefore call on you to do the following: come up with a new basic law, convince your majority to come up with a new law, and then the problems will be solved.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-02-54-plenair-ip155x.u45	Mr President, Minister of Finance, the fight against tax evasion must mobilize us for obvious ethical reasons related to contributory justice and tax fairness; for more prosaic reasons also related to the need to achieve the government's fiscal objectives in terms of fiscal balance. The fight against tax fraud primarily involves the State services (SPF Finance, Special Tax Inspectorate). They must be encouraged because the results achieved often depend on the means allocated to them. But beyond the boundaries of the State, we know that the fight also involves strengthening cooperation mechanisms. That is true at the international level. From this point of view, progress is being made through the increasingly automated exchange of information. This must also be true on a more sectoral level. In this respect, the proposal from the Febelfin federation seems interesting to me. She was a little bit caricatured talking about a proposal for a register of fraudsters, but things are more nuanced than that. Coming from a sector of which, at least one can say, it has not always been irreproachable in this area – in the processes of tax evasion, avoidance, optimisation, fraud, one often sees the intervention of a financial intermediary – I think the proposal deserves attention because it reflects a desire to assume more responsibility, in a concerted way, in the fight against tax fraud. Mr. Minister of Finance, how do you analyze this proposal, which is known to raise objections, particularly with respect to privacy? Beyond these considerations, what advantages and disadvantages do you perceive in this proposal? What follow-up are you going to give him?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-02-54-plenair-ip155x.u46	Mr President, we are talking together with the Minister about the incident register or the register of fraudsters, which is requested by the banking sector. This file is absolutely not new. It is a dossier that was also on the table with the previous government. Your predecessor, Mr Crombez, has very quickly put his finger on the privacy committee. However, it is very difficult to explain to the public that, despite the broad legal framework that we have, those who do not think very well with the law and commit fraud, can go from scandal to scandal but can continue to do so. We shouldn't be light-hearted about privacy. I fully agree with that. For the sake of society, we have been able to deal with this in other cases. I think it is important, Minister, that I see a number of things in the question put by the banks. I do not think it is a good idea to organise such a register by a sector. I believe that a number of elements need to be clearly defined. If we look at the available instruments, such as the fraud and fraud hotline and the Financial Information Processing Cell, which is an important point of contact for the banking sector, then I believe that we should seek a solution involving both institutions. In any case, we support the initiative. However, I would have liked to know what the government's position is. How do you plan to tackle this difficult balancing exercise?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-02-54-plenair-ip155x.u47	Mr Dispa, Mr Van de Velde, fraud exists in many forms and forms. In the fight against tax fraud, we have gradually achieved serious results. The figures for 2016 speak for themselves. However, we certainly do not lose sight of the fact that there are other forms of fraud: computer, financial, identity fraud, etc. All can directly affect the financial sector and indirectly the client of financial institutions. Initiatives from the sector to reduce risks are therefore more than welcome. I think we all agree with that. I have said many times and I repeat that an essential part of any serious fraud policy is the exchange of information. That sounds simple, but unfortunately it is rare. There are many actors involved in most of these processes and there is the fact that the privacy rules are in place that we will continue to respect. I fully agree with you, Mr Van de Velde, that we should, above all, coordinate existing instruments and bodies as closely as possible before we start again with all kinds of new things. Zonder discussia. There is therefore a need for further cooperation in this area. An interdepartmental coordination group has been set up, focusing mainly on the transposition of European rules. My firm is involved. But I also think that it is appropriate to agree with the Court of Justice, since these are punishable acts. It goes without saying that I will also invite the sector to exchange views here. But let me make it clear immediately that we need to see this wider than just the banking sector. For example, the insurance sector needs to be involved in this too, and I will at least do so in that sense. I will have this dossier brought up at the next meeting of the Interministerial Committee on Combating Fraud so that we can discuss this in a cross-border way. This is also a very important part of any serious fraud policy.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-02-54-plenair-ip155x.u48	Thank you, Minister, for your answer. You are quite quick to welcome the results achieved in the fight against tax fraud, in particular on the basis of the results of the Special Inspectorate of Taxes (ISI) in 2016. But you seem less eager to adopt new measures. I believe that the results should not invite you to be satisfied with the existing situation or with the simple transposition of European standards. On the contrary, we must show determination. The proposal on the table is not perfect, it needs to be analysed against many criteria, including respect for privacy. But it has at least the merit of existence and I think it calls for prompt attention from you. I really hope that in the Committee on Finance you will be able to report on the conclusions of the working group to which you referred, so that we can quickly have a timetable and if possible a workable, legally assured text which will enable us to make further progress in the necessary fight against tax fraud. I would like to see a determination that meets the needs and challenges of you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-02-54-plenair-ip155x.u49	Minister, this government's fraud policy, your fraud policy, is working. I will not go into meaningless comparisons with predecessors, but I can see that the browsing tax has come under this government. The global approach to old-age tax capital has come under this government and now we are doing so. I am very pleased that you wish to make that balancing exercise. Those who have not made the balancing exercise between privacy and the social importance of tackling fraud in the past have made a serious mistake. I am pleased that you will be doing that exercise, and I am also very pleased that you will be using the existing instruments, namely the hotline and the CFI.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-02-54-plenair-ip155x.u50	Mr President, Minister, you read like me all day long, all week long, all the rengains including members of the opposition, in particular Messrs. Crombez and Laaouej, drink us in the media. With unfortunate bad faith, they claim that this government would not stand up to the fight against tax fraud. But the figures have fallen and it seems to me that it is important that you can confirm them in this Parliament. Indeed, 255 million euros were raised in 2016 as part of the fight against tax fraud. There is no doubt that such an amount has never been achieved in recent years. This was not the case in 2014. This was also not the case in 2013 when the government was led by the socialists. It is therefore important that you confirm these figures today. We must all be able to hear them and everyone must be able to accept them. Could you also tell us how many files were processed by the ISI in 2016 and what is the recovery rate of the amendments? What is the number of cases where there has been a consultation between the judiciary and the ISI, according to the "una via" procedure? The first measures have already borne fruit. The tangible results; it is obvious. And this is not over since other measures still need to be implemented. We would like to know the pace of this because, in our view, the implementation of these measures is a political priority. Minister, what will be the concrete steps to be taken in the future? When will they be put in place?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-02-54-plenair-ip155x.u51	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the fight against tax fraud and, above all, the fight against major tax fraud is a matter of fundamental justice. During this Parliament, we have taken a number of measures that are mutually reinforcing and that are beginning to bear fruit. Last year, approximately 2,500 cases were processed, the highest number since 2001. Sanctions were imposed at EUR 1.7 billion. This figure is also the highest since 2001. As you have indicated, nearly 255 million have been collected. This is the highest figure since perceptions are actually measured. These figures will not be fully complete until April, which means that the final amount is likely to be higher. Indeed, they cannot fall because they are perceptions. As for your questions, Mr Calomne, which focus on the consultation with the judiciary on fraud cases, 2016 is again – I apologize – a record year. In 2014, there were 36 files, in 2015 there were 60 files, and no fewer than 3,047 in 2016. As you know, Mr Calomne, we are currently examining the reform of the "una via" consultation. Indeed, we have strengthened the ISI through investments in the CTI, data mining software and the recruitment of 100 additional employees who are now at work. The results are very positive. We must continue our efforts over the past two years.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-02-54-plenair-ip155x.u52	Mr President, I thank you for confirming these figures, which go even beyond what I was able to say, since you explain that they would be even higher – subject to any reservation, of course. I believe it is important to receive official confirmation of this within the parliamentary forum. You talked about "the highest figures since 2001" and even "since we can measure them". That's encouraging. We can only encourage you to continue in this direction, through measures to be taken and which will certainly produce further results. As you said, the fight against fraud is a matter of social equity, but also of tax justice, because it is all our citizens who bear the burden of fraud. In conclusion, we have not addressed one aspect to which we must remain attentive: the strengthening of international cooperation and the exchange of information. We will of course follow you in this case. In any case, I thank you for all this positive information.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-02-54-plenair-ip155x.u53	Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I assume you have read the press releases. The welfare sector is a bit on fire because of the second reading of a bill that is on Parliament's table and is expected to take place tomorrow. The government initially wanted to take up a case, simply because some CPAS refused to provide information, while, unfairly, some people who were going abroad, that is, on the Syrian side, continued to receive allowances. I say it; it is totally abnormal, just as the reaction of some CPAS is just as abnormal. On the other hand, on the pretext of combating terrorist offences, it had been decided to take action. Unfortunately, the Council of State made a series of remarks. We have therefore chosen the parliamentary path. Nevertheless, the sector is particularly concerned. He is especially worried about your silence in this matter. Objections were raised by the Council of State, among other things, as a result of the projects that you had tabled but did not come to the table of parliament. Objections were also raised to the bill tabled by a colleague, which is due to be voted on tomorrow at second reading. Obviously, Minister, you will have to take a circular on this matter and there will have to be training, especially in terms of the active obligation – I am not talking here about the passive obligation because it is not questionable – and the serious clues, how to denounce the people concerned, etc. Minister, what are your thoughts? Will you get out of your mutism? It's important. It is time to reassure the sector and, above all, to provide clear and precise answers to its legitimate questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-02-54-plenair-ip155x.u54	Mr Massin, thank you for your question. We are talking here about an extremely important subject, extremely serious in the context of terrorist acts, to which a number of countries or individuals have been or may be subjected. I don't know if you've been distracted in recent months, but, far from being silent, I've been particularly offensive. In particular, I asked the CPAS federations about their proposals in this regard. According to their answer - I would like to keep it at your disposal - a simple adaptive circular could answer the problem raised. That's not my opinion. I wrote to the Chairman of the Committee of Inquiry into Terrorist Attacks on 14 September – you must have been informed of this – to warn him that I was supporting the process concerned. I support it all the more since, on the one hand, all the institutions covered by the Act of 11 April 1995 and the Charter of the Social Insured are included. So it's not just CPAS. On the other hand, as you have pointed out, there is a passive obligation, i.e. a possibility for the King's prosecutor to request a certain amount of information and an active obligation, which will actually be indicated to social workers. I intend to prepare very quickly the circular that you call your wishes. In the days following the adoption of this text by our assembly and its publication in the Monitor, I will translate into a circular the instructions that we are preparing with the SPP Social Integration and that we are going to consult with the federation of CPAS. With regard to such serious offences and crimes, and such dramatic situations, we must dare to be offensive. There is, of course, a hierarchy of priorities and I would even suggest extending the existing mechanism to the most serious crimes outside of terrorist acts. No ambiguity: I have agreed, I have communicated to the committee, I support the process, I will have it implemented and will follow it up by informing the social actors.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-02-54-plenair-ip155x.u55	Minister, if there is one thing I recognize, it is your energy to defend and carry this project. On the other hand, for the concertation, it's a nozzle. You have to read what the CPAS federations say: "Concertation did not exist." You want to impose, not to the line! If you call consultation simply to impose your point of view on federations or other actors, I think you are completely wrong. Beyond that, solutions existed, such as the Banque-Carrefour de la Sécurité Sociale. You don't want it! You want to empower actors, impose things on them and bring sanctions! I would like to point out to you that, besides this, and not the least of all, a number of people are announcing that they will bring appeals. I already told you. Wait tomorrow for the Constitutional Court to cancel the whole thing. I believe that at this point, you will return in a different way, not being as proud as you are now.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-02-54-plenair-ip155x.u56	Mr President, this is certainly my last question before my delivery. Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, many Belgian companies active in the road freight transport sector have been facing serious economic difficulties for several years. It is an important sector since, according to the Febetra, it employs about 90,000 people (2015 figure). Transport by Belgian companies has declined sharply and continuously since the early 2000s. Thus, the number of kilometres travelled by Belgian trucks in international transport was almost divided by three during the period 2001-2015. Minister, we cannot continue to allow our jobs to be destroyed in this way. Mr Parrillo, European President of the Road Transport Trade Unions, announced in an interview in July 2016 that the road transport sector lost 17% of jobs in Belgium due to social dumping. The causes of this problem are known. Since the last enlargement of the European Union, Belgian companies in the sector have been subject to very strong competition from those from Eastern European countries. Real practices of social dumping and fraud are in place, inducing unfair competition, harmful to our businesses and our economy. Mr Minister, you visited Paris on 31 January 2017 to sign a declaration, together with other European transport ministers, to define a common position on road transport. What are the measures contained in this document? How will they improve the situation? In concrete terms, what can be expected from this process, and within what time frame? If Europe is not proactive, workers will continue to turn away from jobs in the sector. The transport sector is largely governed by European regulations. What position do you stand on the European stage in this respect? Finally, what other initiatives has our country taken in recent years to prevent the competitive position of our carriers from continuing to deteriorate?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-02-54-plenair-ip155x.u57	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, social dumping, and the social fraud that often accompanies it, are distorting, penalising businesses and destroying jobs. We plead for a better Europe. The declaration signed by the nine countries on 31 January in Paris follows a letter co-signed by Belgium and eight other countries in September 2016 and addressed to the European Commission. The aim is for the Commission to take account of the position of these countries in the revision of its road transport regulations and to ensure the implementation of measures for fair competition in the transport sector. The purpose of this declaration is to bring the various national measures together in order to avoid different interpretations of European regulations, to improve and harmonise control practices and to defend common positions to combat social dumping. To this end, concrete commitments are made. Firstly, to ensure healthy working conditions for drivers through appropriate driving and rest periods and a regular return to their homes to ensure that these workers are not real drivers of the road. Secondly, to extend the rules in force for heavy goods vehicles to light commercial vehicles in order to avoid unfair competition on their part. Thirdly, to extend to our nine countries the use of the electronic consignment note, which has been developed in Belgium. It is still in its pilot phase but it allows both administrative simplification and easy follow-up in different countries. Fourthly, strengthening state cooperation in the area of control by promoting cross-border exchange and data exchange. Fifthly, to defend a common position within international bodies in order to ensure a sustainable development of the market. All these actions will help to avoid further opening up the transport market without prior harmonisation in terms of both social standards and control practices. This declaration is in line with the plan for fair competition in the transport sector, adopted by Belgium in February 2016, the result of a consultation between the government and representatives of the sector, whose first effects are felt. Finally, in the coming months, I will continue to defend a firm position at European level, particularly in relation to the proposals that the European Commission will make. I have no doubt that other European states will join the nine co-signatories of the so-called "road" alliance. Finally, concerted and shared control measures have just been implemented within the Benelux. We hope to be able to extend them rapidly to France and Germany.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-02-54-plenair-ip155x.u58	Minister, I thank you for your answer, which explains these very good measures. Congratulations also on your firm position in this regard! I will of course come back to ask you about the development of this issue, which affects many jobs, which are now in danger. Indeed, we must not forget that these practices directly affect tens of thousands of people – and therefore, families.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-02-54-plenair-ip155x.u59	Thank you, Mrs. Thoron, and wish you luck.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-02-54-plenair-ip155x.u60	Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-02-54-plenair-ip155x.u61	End of oral questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-02-54-plenair-ip155x.u62	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteur was Mrs Grovonius, who referred to her written report. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-02-54-plenair-ip155x.u63	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2222/1) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2222/1) The draft law has two articles. The bill has two articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-02-54-plenair-ip155x.u64	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-02-54-plenair-ip155x.u65	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-02-54-plenair-ip155x.u66	Mr President, I am going to be extremely brief as this report has been unanimously voted on. It is in the direction of better security as it is police cooperation.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-02-54-plenair-ip155x.u67	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-02-54-plenair-ip155x.u68	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2223/1) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2223/1) The draft law has two articles. The bill has two articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-02-54-plenair-ip155x.u69	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-02-54-plenair-ip155x.u70	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteur is Mrs Jadin who refers to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-02-54-plenair-ip155x.u71	Mr President, in the discussions we had in committee, we immediately made it clear that we were going to vote for this technical agreement. But I recalled the history that binds our state with Colombia. In October 2010, six Belgian NGOs, which had offices in Belgium (the International Federation for Human Rights, Oxfam Solidarity, the National Centre for Development Cooperation, the Copenhagen Initiative for Central America, Broederlijk Delen and the League for Human Rights) filed complaints against X, with a civil party, for offences committed by Colombian intelligence services, DAS. This filing of a complaint followed the discovery in the DAS archives of documents proving the existence of a genuine programme of investigation, spinning, collection of private information, psychological profiling, persecution, threats and blackmail against NGOs, lawyers, journalists and judges. The operation, known as EUROPA, was aimed at the activities of NGOs and their staff in Europe and resulted in significant surveillance in Belgium without the authorization of the Belgian intelligence services, of course, and in total contradiction with Belgian law. That is why these NGOs filed a complaint. The complaint states that Broederlijk Deelen was the subject of a deregulation operation aimed at preventing funding from this NGO. The DAS sought to obtain a document entitled "Opening spaces for the construction of a participatory, equitable and non-violent society in Colombia". This document was intended for the European Union, with a view to obtaining a three-year grant for Colombian partner organisations from 2006. The aim was then to draft a new document that could neutralize the NGO document, among other things by establishing false links with the FARC. The European Parliament's Sub-Committee on Human Rights was also the subject of spying in Brussels by the DAS. It is also stated that, among the complainants, there was a certain Luis Guillermo Pérez Casas, who was Secretary General of the International Federation of Human Rights Leagues at the time of the events. Mr. Pérez Casas was forced to exile twice to Belgium because of his human rights protection activities in Colombia. He was the subject of espionage, and a burglary from his home in Belgium, during which three laptops and an external hard drive were taken away from him. His family received threats through telephone calls and the purpose of the Colombian intelligence service was to neutralize his work with the International Criminal Court and the Commission on Crimes against Humanity. The Belgian justice system has taken these illegal surveillance measures and campaigns of deregulation and intimidation very seriously. Thus, following complaints by the victims, investigating judge Leroux made a request for a rogatory commission in 2012 to the Colombian authorities. Colombia replied that it was studying the request, and then never again gave news. At the same time, it responded positively to a request for a Spanish judicial rogatory commission on this matter in Spain. What I want to say, Mr President, is that today we are going to approve a seat agreement, which is quite normal, but it is a question of remembering the past in this democratic forum. The past wasn't looking good. Today, however, the political situation in Colombia has changed particularly, following a peace agreement with the FARC and a president who recently received the Nobel Prize. We need to be able to look ahead and take on the facts. That has been recalled here.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-02-54-plenair-ip155x.u72	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-02-54-plenair-ip155x.u73	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2224/1) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2224/1) The draft law has two articles. The bill has two articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-02-54-plenair-ip155x.u74	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-02-54-plenair-ip155x.u75	Pursuant to Rule 116 of the Rules of Procedure, a limited general discussion will take place in plenary. In accordance with rule 116 of the Rules, the bill is the subject of limited general discussion in plenary. The limited general discussion is open. The limited general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-02-54-plenair-ip155x.u76	Mr President, I refer to my written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-02-54-plenair-ip155x.u77	Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-02-54-plenair-ip155x.u78	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2192/4) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2192/4) The draft law has 11 articles. The bill has 11 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-02-54-plenair-ip155x.u79	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-02-54-plenair-ip155x.u80	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteurs are Messrs. Piedboeuf and Van Biesen who refer to the written report. Mr Dispa has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-02-54-plenair-ip155x.u81	Thank you, Mr. President. I would like to welcome the introduction of this new innovation income deduction scheme, as proposed by the Minister. It is a regime that will replace the patent income deduction system, which will enable Belgium to comply with the recommendations of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) and to pursue with some consistency the strategic will that must be ours to foster the dynamics of innovation and research and development. I would simply like to take advantage of this general discussion to draw attention to three points which I believe are important. Firstly, this is the situation of SMEs, because large companies obviously have a leading role to play in this area, but it is important to ensure that SMEs can be included in these aid schemes. The second consideration concerns the legal certainty of the scheme and the possible risk of being questioned by the European Commission, which might consider that there is State aid. Can you reassure us in this regard, minister? Has a notification been drafted and have reassuring answers been received from Europe? Finally, attention must be paid to budgetary impacts, since, as a matter of principle, even if the measures are to be positive, we must bear in mind the need to monitor their budgetary impact in order to avoid any bad surprise.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-02-54-plenair-ip155x.u82	Mr President, I am a supporter of Mr Dispa's thoughts. I would like to point out to the latter that the application for SMEs is now easier. On the other hand, with regard to Europe's position or reaction, we have followed in every way the rules of the OECD. We also consulted informally with the European Commission, which did not make any comments. As regards budgetary aspects, the net profit recorded as a result of the change in the regime is, according to the Finance FPS, EUR 120 million and, according to the Finance Inspector, which has taken on other assumptions regarding the impact on the behaviour of companies, EUR 56 million.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-02-54-plenair-ip155x.u83	Minister, I note that Mr Gilkinet has just joined us. I suggest you listen briefly.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-02-54-plenair-ip155x.u84	Mr President, Minister, during the debates in committee, you announced these figures from the Finance Inspectorate, but they are not seen, as is the case with the notes that the Finance Inspectorate has drawn up on various texts, since the government does not communicate them to us. I must tell you that unfortunately we have been very negatively surprised by the results of tax policies that you have implemented and that do not result in the results that you are announcing. In this case, the patent revenue reduction regime fails to reward those with patents. In Belgium, however, research and development should be supported, as we regularly ask. As far as we are concerned, we are voting in favour of texts that prepare tomorrow by subsidising research and development jobs. But it's not about that here. The text has been somewhat corrected under pressure from the OECD, but it continues to be part of a logic of tax competition. It has and will have a significant cost, without the real impact on employment being measured. This is a half-measure as often. We question your budget projections. That is why we cannot support it, even if we consider that research and development is innovation, the future of our economy. Minister, I am dissatisfied with both the answers you have given in committee and the answers you are giving here.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-02-54-plenair-ip155x.u85	Mr. Speaker, a chronicle of an announced bill. The government had to introduce a reform on this very important mechanism, undoubtedly decisive in the evolution of our economic fabric, in particular that which affects high-tech, research and development, and innovation. As far as taxation is concerned, we have always said that we are more in favour of measures relating to balance sheet assets than to measures relating to balance sheet liabilities. We have always said that it is essential to have a fiscal policy that accompanies productive investment, which creates employment and, in particular, high added value, innovation, research and development. Nevertheless, we see a tightening of the system in determining the calculation of the benefit, but also a widening of its scope. That is why we are sending out two warnings. The first is that this provision must be put under budgetary control. There should not be a form of fiscal slippage that makes this measure particularly costly, especially if there is a disproportion between what this measure brings about in terms of employment, productive investment and the cost to the budget. It is necessary to have a good balance, a balance that will justify and legitimize the measure. We therefore call for this measure to be placed under budgetary control in the head of the Department of Finance. In addition, a number of possibilities have been added for deduction with new segments in terms of research and development, intangible assets. It is important to put in place administrative procedures that are not bureaucratic but effective and that make it possible to ensure that the investments which are subject to or apply for deduction are actually those desired by the legislator, i.e. that they fully meet all the conditions. That seems indispensable to me. In this connection, it may be useful to have an interpretative and illustrative circular, drawing up a list of cases which, without any form of doubt, allow us to see that we are faced with a tangible one which fits perfectly under conditions. The measure is obviously desirable for improving our economic fabric as well as for structural competitiveness, instead of the wage competition that we do not believe in so much. From this point of view, although we believe that this provision is in the right direction, we will abstain from this bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-02-54-plenair-ip155x.u86	Of course, there must be administrative controls. They will. Your suggestion for a circular is valid. I'll think about it. As far as search is concerned, the granting of patents is stimulated by such a measure. On the other hand, more generally, we use other instruments, such as the general deduction for investments. Finally, we will, of course, closely monitor the budgetary effects. As the FPS Finance and Finance Inspectorate estimates have shown, the margin is determined on the basis of assumptions as to the impact of the new legislation on business behaviour.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-02-54-plenair-ip155x.u87	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? ) The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-02-54-plenair-ip155x.u88	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2235/4) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2235/4) The title was changed by the Committee to include a draft law introducing a deduction for innovation revenue." The title has been amended by the committee into a bill introducing a deduction for innovation income. The draft law has 16 articles. The bill has 16 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-02-54-plenair-ip155x.u89	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-02-54-plenair-ip155x.u90	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Gwenaëlle Grovonius, Stéphane Crusnière, Philippe Blanchart, Dirk Van der Maelen, Fatma Pehlivan. The Committee on External Relations proposes that this motion for a resolution be rejected. (1836/4) The Committee on External Relations proposes to reject this motion for a resolution. (1836/4) Pursuant to Rule 88 of the Rules of Procedure, the plenary shall decide on this proposal for rejection after hearing the rapporteur and, where appropriate, the proposers. In accordance with Rule 88 of the Rules of Procedure, the plenary session will decide on this rejection proposal after hearing the rapporteur and possibly the authors. The rapporteur is Mr Hellings, who is not asking for the floor. But I believe that Mrs Grovonius is asking for the floor. You have the floor, ma'am.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-02-54-plenair-ip155x.u91	Mr President, I wish to speak on this draft resolution which I tabled and which, unfortunately, was rejected in committee. However, this project is largely supported by civil society actors. The World Bank is one of the two specialized agencies of the United Nations that emerged from the Bretton Woods agreements of 1944, the other being the IMF. The World Bank is mainly funded by its members. In terms of numbers, it is about US$60 billion, in 2015, in donations, loans, equity investments or various guarantees. Belgium is one of its 187 member countries, one of its historical members and one of the members who make the most financial contributions and therefore has a "major" power in its decision-making bodies. Belgium contributes more or less EUR 130 million, representing about 10% of the total Belgian Development Cooperation budget. Given the internal functioning of the World Bank, which wants votes to be weighted according to the financial contribution, Belgium really has an important weight in its bodies. She holds key positions: the Executive Director of the Board of Directors, two out of seven Councillors within our group of countries, and one delegate to the International Development Association, which is one of the five organizations that make up the World Bank. Until recently, all these Belgian representatives were appointed by the Minister of Finance and were solely within the competence of the FPS Finances, while the financing and contribution of Belgium to the World Bank is a budget derived exclusively from Development Cooperation. Following pressure from civil society and parliament, a royal decree was adopted on 24 November, which now allows the joint exercise of jurisdiction by the Department of Finance and the Department of Development Cooperation. This royal decree, of course, marks a significant step forward which I would like to welcome. Unfortunately this is not enough since the Minister of Finance continues to serve as governor for Belgium, while the Minister of Development Cooperation has only an alternate role. The Minister of Finance also remains the representative; he sits at the annual meetings of the World Bank and remains competent to appoint our senior official. There is therefore a desire in this resolution to go even further than this royal decree of November 2016. Beyond the issue of coherence, in particular with regard to our development cooperation, a major problem is the transparency of the decisions taken at the World Bank. Our contribution to the World Bank is 10 per cent of the total development cooperation budget. On the other hand, we have no information on the Belgian position that is being defended in the various decision-making bodies of the World Bank. An effort was made, however, as we had a hearing in committee for the first time with Mr Godts, our World Bank administrator. Unfortunately, the act is punctual. He responded to a call from civil society and parliamentarians. The resolution would like to ensure that these hearings are institutionalized, formalised and systematized in the future. Especially since some projects financed by the World Bank raise questions and are the subject of more or less alarming reports by civil society, particularly concerning mining or gas projects in countries such as Kosovo. The resolution is not controversial and does not call into question the important role that the World Bank and our country could play in this institution. We must remain a leading actor. But more coherence and transparency are essential, especially if the money involved and the Minister's plans for agriculture or food sovereignty are taken into account. This analysis is, in fact, all the more true since the models promoted by the World Bank in these two issues often conflict with the strategic note "Agriculture and food security", targeting sustainable family farming as a priority that can contribute to the food security of the people. That was, in any case, the case until today. I hope to be able to discuss the new strategic note in committee in the near future, and we will see what the minister has to say about it. On the basis of this note, which is currently in force, I believe that our country cannot ensure that the principles contained in this note are applied without the assurance that the Minister of Finance, or his representative at the World Bank, defends sustainable family farming there. On the other hand, the current Minister for Development Cooperation claims to hear that he wants more integrated development cooperation and stresses that food security is and remains one of the four pillars of his policy. As he points out, cross-cutting is the idea that food security must be integrated into all our interventions. This must also apply to Belgian mandates within the World Bank, which is very active in this sector. I'm not dreaming too much. I do not think that my colleagues in the majority will have changed their minds since the vote in committee. Nevertheless, I thank you for your attention, for the interesting debates we had in committee and for the serious work we did in analysing this motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-02-54-plenair-ip155x.u92	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-02-54-plenair-ip155x.u93	Mr Flahaux, you cannot speak. Only the rapporteur and the authors can speak. No other speaker may speak. No one can speak any more. The vote on the motion to reject this motion for a resolution will take place at a later date. The vote on the proposal to reject this motion for a resolution will take place at a later stage.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-02-54-plenair-ip155x.u94	In accordance with the decision of the plenary session of 15 December 2016, two calls for candidates were published in the Belgian Official Journal of 23 December 2016, one for the President and the two members of the Disciplinary Board and another for the Registrars. In accordance with the decision of the plenary session of 15 December 2016, two appeals to the candidates were published in the Belgian Monitor of 23 December 2016, one for the President and the two members of the Disciplinary Council and one for the Registrars. Only an application for a mandate of a member of the Disciplinary Board was submitted within the prescribed time limit; on the other hand none for the Registrar's mandates. Only one candidacy for a term of office as a member of the Disciplinary Board was submitted within the prescribed time limit; however, none for the terms of office of Registrar. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 1 February 2017, I propose that two more calls be made to candidates in the Belgian Official Journal, one for the President and the two members of the Disciplinary Board and another for the Registrars. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 1 February 2017, I propose that you reissue two calls for candidates to the Belgian Monitor, one for the President and the two members of the Disciplinary Council and one for the Registrars. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-02-54-plenair-ip155x.u95	The next item is the secret ballot for the appointment of alternate non-notaries from the Notaries' Appointment Committees. The next item is the ballot for the appointment of non-notary alternate members of the Committees of Appointment for the Notariat. In accordance with Article 38 of the Law of 25 Ventôse year XI in the notary office, the Chamber must appoint non-notaries of the Dutch-speaking Appointments Committee and the French-speaking Appointments Committee for the notary. These members shall be appointed for a period of four years and every two years the terms of office of half of the members and alternates shall be renewed. Pursuant to Article 38 of the Law of 25 Ventôse an XI containing organization of the notariat, the House of Representatives must appoint the non-notary members of the Commission de nomination de langue française and of the Commission de nomination de langue dutche pour le notariat. These members shall be appointed for a period of four years; the terms of office of half of the actual and alternate members shall be renewed every two years. Each committee shall consist of eight working and eight alternate members. Each committee has eight effective members and eight alternate members. The working and alternate members of non-notaries shall be appointed by the Chamber of Representatives with a two-thirds majority of the votes cast, from the following three categories: - one magistrate, - one lecturer or professor of law; - two external members with professional experience relevant to the contract. The actual and non-notary alternate members shall be appointed by the House of Representatives by a two-thirds majority of the votes cast, from among the following three categories: - a magistrate; - a lecturer or a professor of law; - two external members with professional experience useful for the mission. At least one member of the French-speaking Appointments Committee must provide proof of the knowledge of German. Since a member notary already provides this evidence, the Chamber is not obliged to appoint a member with knowledge of German. At least one member of the French-language Appointment Commission or an alternate must demonstrate knowledge of German. Since this condition has already been fulfilled for the notary members of this committee, the Chamber is not obliged to appoint a member who knows German. As a transitional provision, in Article 2 of the Law of 20 May 2016 amending the Law of 27 April 2016 amending the Law of 25 Ventôse year XI on the notarial post, Article 2 of the Law of 20 May 2016 provides that, at the first re-conciliation following the entry into force of this Law, half of the members shall be appointed for a period of two years. As a transitional measure, it is stipulated – in Article 2 of the Law of 20 May 2016 amending the Law of 27 April 2016 amending the Law of 25 Ventôse an XI containing organization of the notariat – that at the first composition after the entry into force of this Law, half of the members will be appointed for a term of two years. A term of office of two years shall be granted to one of the members referred to in Article 38, §4, paragraph 1, paragraph 3 and paragraph 4 (i.e. to one of the categories "Magistraat' or "Magistraat' or "Magistraat' or "Magistraat' or "Magistraat' or "Magistraat' or "Magistraat' or "Magistraat' or "Magistraat' or "Magistraat' or "Magistraat') and to one of the members referred to in Article 38, §4, paragraph 1, paragraph 5° (i.e. to one external member). A term of office of two years shall be granted to one of the members referred to in the first paragraph of Article 38(4), 3° and 4° (either to a member of the categories'magistrate' or 'teacher or lecturer') and to one of the members referred to in the first paragraph of Article 38(4), 5° (or to an external member). Mr Nicolas Carette (N), Mrs Ludivine Kerzmann (F) and Mr François Dubois (F). The following persons applied for a two-year and four-year term: Mr. Nicolas Carette (N), Ms. Ludivine Kerzmann (F) and Mr. François Dubois (F). At the plenary session of 19 January 2017, applications were announced and the list of candidates was distributed under No. 2273/1. Nominations were announced in plenary on 19 January 2017 and the list of candidates was circulated under No. 2273/1. By e-mail of 1 February 2017, Ms Stéphanie Mees withdraws her candidacy. By e-mail dated February 1, 2017, Ms.Stéphanie Mees withdrew her application. However, I would like to draw your attention to the following: 1°For the category Dutch-speaking "magistraat" we should not vote. There is only one candidate for this mandate. Consequently, pursuant to Article 157.6 of the Rules of Procedure, Ms Rita Mortier, who applied for a four-year term of office, was elected as a non-notary member of the Dutch-speaking Appointment Committee for a four-year term of office. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. 2°For the category Dutch-speaking "doctor or professor" we should not vote. There is only one candidate for this mandate. Consequently, pursuant to Article 157.6 of the Rules of Procedure, Mr Nicolas Carette was elected as an alternate non-notary member of the Dutch-speaking Appointments Committee for a two-year term of office. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. 3° Although there is only one candidate for the category of French-speaking "magistrate," we must nevertheless vote in order to determine the duration of its term of office. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. However, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that: 1° There is no need to vote for the Dutch-speaking "magistrate" category. Indeed, there is only one candidate for this term. In accordance with rule 157.6 of the Rules of the Chamber, I therefore declare Ms. Rita Mortier to have applied for a four-year term, elected as an alternate non-notary member of the Dutch-language Appointment Commission for a four-year term. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. 2° There is no need to vote for the Dutch-speaking category of "teachers or lecturers". Indeed, there is only one candidate for this term. I therefore declare Mr. Nicolas Carette elected, pursuant to rule 157.6 of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber, as an alternate non-notary member of the Dutch-language Appointment Commission for a term of two years. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. 3° Although for the French-speaking "magistrate" category there is only one candidate, we must however fix the duration of his term of office. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. I would remind you that for the category "doctor or professor" for the French-speaking Appointment Commission, a call for candidates was published in the Belgian Official Journal of 23 January 2017. I would remind you that for the category "charged with courses or professor" for the Commission de nomination francophone, a call for candidates was published in the Moniteur belge of 23 January 2017. You received a ballot with the names of the Dutch-speaking candidates and the French-speaking candidates. The ballot also allows a choice to be made between a mandate of two or four years. You have received a ballot containing the names of the French-speaking and Dutch-speaking candidates. The bulletin also provides for the possibility of choosing between a term of two or four years. In order to vote, a cross must be placed in the box opposite the names of the chosen candidates and choose the duration of the term of office. Vote notes with more votes than there are mandates are invalid. It is necessary to vote by drawing a cross in the box opposite the names of the selected candidates and to fix the duration of the term of office. Ballot papers containing more votes than there are warrants to be filled shall be void. As the vote is secret, the ballots must not be signed. Due to the secret nature of the ballot, ballot papers cannot be signed. First we have to put together one or two desks of voters by drawing lots. Each bureau shall be composed of four members. I propose, however, that the last two Members who have taken their seats at the Bureau today should be nominated for the vote. We must first draw lots from one or two offices of deputy returning officers, each composed of four members, who will be responsible for the counting. I suggest, however, that you appoint the two youngest members to the bureau this day to take the ballots. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Ladies Nawal Ben Hamou and Yoleen Van Camp are appointed to record the votes. Ms. Nawal Ben Hamou and Ms. Yoleen Van Camp designated to vote. I suggest that the ballots be counted in the conference room, in the presence of the voters. I propose that you proceed to the counting of the ballots in the Conference Hall, in the presence of the deputy returning officers. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. I would ask every Member to put his unsigned ballot paper in the ballot box when calling his name. Please come along my left side to the speaker's seat and leave it on my right side. At the call of his name, each member is asked to submit his unsigned ballot in the ballot box, going up to the rostrum, from my left to my right. I invite the voters from the names to call. I invite the deputy returning officers to make the roll call.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-02-54-plenair-ip155x.u96	Did everyone vote? Did everyone put their ballot in the ballot box? The vote is closed. I declare the ballot closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-02-54-plenair-ip155x.u97	The last distributed agenda contains a list of proposals for which consideration has been requested. You have taken note of the list of proposals for consideration in the agenda distributed to you. If there is no objection, I shall consider it adopted; in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, these proposals shall be sent to the committees responsible. If there are no comments on this subject, I will take it into account as a matter of fact and refer the proposals back to the relevant committees in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 1 February 2017, I also propose that you consider: - the motion for a resolution (Mr Sabien Lahaye-Battheu and Mr Nele Lijnen) on the creation of 'TrainPoints', No. 2284/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-02-54-plenair-ip155x.u98	- the legislative proposal (Mrs Sonja Becq and Mr Raf Terwingen) amending the Code of Economic Law and the Law of 25 December 2016 amending the legal status of detainees and the supervision of prisons and laying down various provisions on justice, No. 2286/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-02-54-plenair-ip155x.u99	- the legislative proposal (Mr Egbert Lachaert c.s.) for the replacement of ecocheques by a net allowance, No. 2287/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-02-54-plenair-ip155x.u100	- the motion for a resolution (Mr Gilles Vanden Burre and Mr Kristof Calvo) on the transfer of SMEs, No. 2288/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-02-54-plenair-ip155x.u101	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 1 February 2017, I also propose that you take into account: - the motion for a resolution (Ms Sabien Lahaye-Battheu and Nele Lijnen) on the creation of train points, No 2284/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-02-54-plenair-ip155x.u102	- the bill (Ms. Sonja Becq and Mr. Raf Terwingen) amending the Code of Economic Law and the Act of 25 December 2016 amending the legal status of prisoners and the supervision of prisons and laying down various provisions in the field of justice, No. 2286/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-02-54-plenair-ip155x.u103	- the proposal for a law (Mr Egbert Lachaert et al.) to replace ecocheques by a net amount, No 2287/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-02-54-plenair-ip155x.u104	- the motion for a resolution (MM. Gilles Vanden Burre and Kristof Calvo) on the transmission of SMEs, No 2288/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-02-54-plenair-ip155x.u105	Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-02-54-plenair-ip155x.u106	Mr President, we would like to see an urgent debate on our proposal (No. 2286), because it fixes a technical error in the final version of the potpourriwet 4, which was approved here. Our proposal is nothing more than a technical adjustment. We ask for urgency because the law itself entered into force on 9 January 2017 and we would like to correct it as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-02-54-plenair-ip155x.u107	We shall express our opinion on your request in the usual manner, sitting down and standing up.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-02-54-plenair-ip155x.u108	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes 130 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 131 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (2222/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (2222/4) Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-02-54-plenair-ip155x.u109	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 2) Yes 130 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 130 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (2223/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (2223/ 2004)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-02-54-plenair-ip155x.u110	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 3) Yes 131 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 131 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (2224/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (2224/4)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-02-54-plenair-ip155x.u111	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes 78 Yes No. 1 No Abstentions 52 Abstensions Total 131 Total As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (2192/2005) Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (2192/5) Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-02-54-plenair-ip155x.u112	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 5) Yes 87 Yes No. 1 No Abstentions 41 Abstensions Total 129 Total As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent [[.]] (2235/5) Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (2235/5) Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-02-54-plenair-ip155x.u113	Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check his voice? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 6) Yes [[80]] Yes No. 52 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 132 Total Consequently, the Court accepts the rejection proposal. The proposal of Resolution No. 1836/1 was therefore rejected. Accordingly, the board adopts the proposal to reject. Motion for a resolution No 1836/1 is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-02-54-plenair-ip155x.u114	We must proceed with the adoption of the agenda for Thursday 9 February 2017. We must proceed to the approval of the agenda of the sitting on Thursday, 9 February 2017. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] The agenda has been adopted. No observation? [[No]] The agenda was approved. We'll have to wait. I will therefore ask you to stay in the Chamber because we must be aware of the result of the vote on the Committees of Appointment for the Notariat. I am going to suspend the sitting for a few minutes, but I would ask you to return, because the notary's appointment committees should be able to work. As soon as the results are in, we'll resume the meeting. The meeting is adjourned. The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-02-54-plenair-ip155x.u115	The sitting has resumed. The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-02-54-plenair-ip155x.u116	Votes 126 Votants Blank or invalid 1 White or invalid Valid 125 Valables 2/3 majority 84 Majority of 2/3
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-02-54-plenair-ip155x.u117	Mr Etienne Allaert obtained 0 votes for a two-year term of office. Mr. Etienne Allaert obtained 0 votes for a two-year term. Mr Etienne Allaert obtained 0 votes for a mandate of 4 years. Mr. Etienne Allaert obtained 0 votes for a four-year term. Ms Isabelle Dupré obtained 122 votes for a two-year term of office. Isabelle Dupré obtained 122 votes for a two-year term. Ms Isabelle Dupré obtained two votes for a four-year term of office. Isabelle Dupré obtained 2 votes for a four-year term. Mr Antoine Van Eeckhout obtained two votes for a two-year term of office. Antoine Van Eeckhout obtained 2 votes for a two-year term. Mr Antoine Van Eeckhout obtained 122 votes for a four-year mandate. Antoine Van Eeckhout obtained 122 votes for a four-year term.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-02-54-plenair-ip155x.u118	Ms Ludivine Kerzmann obtained 0 votes for a two-year term of office. Ms Ludivine Kerzmann obtained 0 votes for a two-year term. Ms Ludivine Kerzmann obtained 123 votes for a four-year term of office. Ms. Ludivine Kerzmann obtained 123 votes for a four-year term.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-02-54-plenair-ip155x.u119	Mr Guy Cremer obtained 123 votes in favour of a four-year mandate. Guy Cremer obtained 123 votes for a four-year term. Mr François Dubois obtained 58 votes in favour of a two-year term of office. François Dubois obtained 58 votes for a two-year term. Mr François Dubois obtained 0 votes for a four-year term of office. Mr François Dubois obtained 0 votes for a four-year term. Mr Christophe Philippe obtained one vote for a four-year term of office. Mr. Christophe Philippe obtained 1 vote for a four-year term. Consequently, alternate members of the Notarial Appointment Committees shall be elected as follows: Accordingly, the following are hereby elected alternate members of the Committees of Appointment for the Notariat:
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-02-54-plenair-ip155x.u120	As an external member:
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-02-54-plenair-ip155x.u121	Mrs Isabelle Dupré for a two-year term of office. Isabelle Dupré for a two-year term. Mr Antoine Van Eeckhout for a four-year term of office. Mr. Antoine Van Eeckhout for a four-year term.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-02-54-plenair-ip155x.u122	Ms Ludivine Kerzmann for a four-year term of office. Ms. Ludivine Kerzmann for a four-year term.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-02-54-plenair-ip155x.u123	Mr Guy Cremer for a four-year term of office. Mr. Guy Cremer for a four-year term. For the two-year term of office of deputy member of the French-speaking Appointments Commission for the notary, category "External Members', no candidate has achieved the required two-thirds majority. It is therefore proposed to publish a new call in the Belgian Official Journal for this mandate. No candidate obtained the two-thirds majority required to fill the two-year term as an alternate member of the Commission de nomination de langue française pour le notariat, category ‘external members'. It is therefore proposed to issue a new appeal to the Belgian Monitor for this mandate. I think we can end the session here. We have already approved the agenda. I repeat, if there are no comments on this, the agenda has been adopted. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Thursday 9 February 2017 at 2.15 p.m. The meeting is adjourned. Next sitting on Thursday, 9 February 2017 at 2.15 p.m.
