ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic681x.u1	Mr Brotcorn's questions 221 and 222 were withdrawn from the agenda.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic681x.u2	Mr Minister, I would like to ask you about the progress of the work of the Reflection Group on dual nationality. As a reminder, last year I tabled with my group a proposal for a law to put an end to the declaration of conservatory nationality. This proposal was rejected by the majority parties despite the fact that several actors welcomed the legislative initiative and its objective to simplify the existing procedure. When I interviewed you in July 2016, you told me that a think tank with representatives from the Justice and Foreign Affairs FPS had been set up. The aim of this group was to think about simplifying the modes of expression of the desire to remain Belgian. Minister, can you give me a brief overview of the progress of this group's work? Are there any avenues to simplify existing procedures on the table? Have they already been discussed within the government?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic681x.u3	Mr Crusnière, with regard to your question concerning the progress of the work of the Reflection Group on the simplification of the modes of expression of the will to remain Belgian, as referred to in my reply of 13 July 2016, I can inform you that two consultation meetings took place between my administration and that of Foreign Affairs in 2016. The proposals and recommendations made at the meeting are discussed at intercabinets meetings on the basis of a more comprehensive preliminary draft law aimed at amending various provisions of the Belgian Nationality Code. In the preliminary draft which I would like to submit to the Council of Ministers in the coming weeks, a concrete proposal will be formulated in order to meet the desire for simplification of the way in which the will to maintain Belgian nationality is expressed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic681x.u4	I thank the minister for his response.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic681x.u5	Minister, the reform of the justice system is currently under way throughout the country. Indeed, the reorganization of the judicial cantons, the first phase of which was approved on 23 December 2015, appears in the government agreement. This first phase of centralisation in one seat for cantons with two or more cantons is being implemented. As a result, some 20 buildings have already been closed. The second phase, on the organization of joint registries in urban cantons, is also in the process of being implemented. We are now in the third phase of remodeling the cantons on the basis of better geographical distribution and workload. In Brussels, where there are about 20 justices of the peace, your plan provides for the abolition of the canton of Auderghem, which will be reassigned partly to the canton of Etterbeek and partly to the canton of Uccle. It is also planned to centralize the transplants into six buildings. This change in the Brussels judicial landscape does not in any case give rise to the accession of the two Brussels municipalities concerned, since they brought an action for suspension and annulment before the Council of State to prevent the announced closure of Auderghem's justice system. The municipality of Watermael-Boitsfort also decided to file its own appeal, the inhabitants of the latter depending directly on the justice of peace of Auderghem. Mr Minister, it is true that much has been said about justices of peace in less populated towns and villages, but the question of the reform of the justice of peace is also very acute with regard to large cities. I would therefore like more information on how this implementation of your plan for the Brussels-Capital Region and its various justices of peace is proceeding. Do you already have a timetable for the different phases that are being implemented? Can you tell us more about the centralization of transplants into six buildings? Indeed, there is so far very little information. Many justices of the peace and their transplants are concerned because they feel that, in the end, reform is being advanced without them knowing enough what to do with it. How do you react to the actions brought before the Council of State by the municipalities of Watermael-Boitsfort and Auderghem?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic681x.u6	Mr President, Mrs Schepmans, I have already outlined in this committee and on several occasions my plan for justices of peace, as well as the third phase and all the criteria taken into account. I don't think I have to call them back. As far as the justice of peace in Auderghem is concerned, I can remain brief. The decision in principle was taken to close the canton for the reason that its workload was the lowest in Brussels and that it was below the national average. Moreover, the Brussels territory has a limited extent and is well served by public transport, making the argument of proximity less relevant. The decision in principle has yet to be confirmed by an amendment to the Judicial Code, which is being prepared and will be submitted to the Council of Ministers. When this preparatory work is completed, which will soon be the case, a concrete timetable will be communicated. The objective is to achieve full deployment over approximately two years. With regard to the questions relating to the Braine-l'Alleud peace court, the link with sous l'arbre is not quite clear. I agree with you that housing there is inadequate, so I have repeatedly asked Minister Jambon to provide a solution. However, this is independent of the principle of sous l'arbre. It has been clearly stated that, if there is a sous l'arbre somewhere, there will always be an agreement with the municipality concerned, which clearly covers the rights and obligations of each party. As for the entanglement, in the past it was the task of the congregation to house the peace court. That has always been the case and this legislation was only amended in 2014. That's when this wasn't raised. Moreover, I do not think that this argument of conflict of interest has influenced a court of peace. In addition, only a local or a conference room was used. It is not intended that the municipal services should continue to be called upon. In addition, a peace dish often sits in a building that is rented and that the landlord can be a trial party. Finally, when a court of peace sits in a building of the State, this does not prevent the court of peace from taking notice of matters before or against the Belgian State.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic681x.u7	Minister, thank you for your answers. It is true that the reform of the justice system has already been presented on a number of occasions, but in general, by focusing on areas where the population density is lower and where, as you have pointed out, transport facilities are rarer. For Brussels, this question does not arise, but there are very many litigants. Justice of the peace is a justice of the locality, to which citizens frequently resort. It would therefore be interesting for the Brussels justices of the peace to have information on the centralisation of the registries into six buildings. Some communes are densely populated, so the workload of the transplants is enormous. That is why their staff pay particular attention to how the reform will be organised. I hear she'll be finished in two years. The litigants, as well as the justices of the peace and the clerks, wish to understand how they will have to organize themselves as a result of the consolidation of activities in these six buildings.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic681x.u8	Thank you, Mrs. Schepmans. Unfortunately, Mr. Hedebouw, you're a little late, but you have other questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic681x.u9	Question No 18852 by Mrs Fabienne Winckel is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic681x.u10	Mrs. Winckel is absent.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic681x.u11	Minister, the Belgian State has recently been sentenced by the European Court of Human Rights to compensation of more than EUR 11 000 to two detainees. That concerned their stay in the prisons of Prince and Lantin. It was suggested that the person concerned in Vorst had less than 3 square meters of personal space, could only leave the cell one hour a day, could not participate in the activities and could only shower twice a week, often with cold water. In the end, it is still limited, I think, a compensation of EUR 3 500. Another inmate, someone from Lantin, had enough personal space, but had to share his cell with someone who smoked and was forced to smoke passively. He could only shower twice a week, could only get out of prison twice a day and there were no activities in which he could participate. As a result, he received compensation of 11 500 euros. Mr. Secretary, we know the situation in Prince. We know it's not good. You're trying to deal with the overpopulation, and we know that. Let us hope that there will also be a new prison in Haren very soon, so that this situation in Frost can stop because of the closure of the prison. On the other hand, Lantin's prison dates back to 1979 and is certainly newer and more modern compared to our other old prisons. It should also be able to make a newer prison policy possible. In addition, all prisons may and may smoke in the cell. I understand that, too. For this reason alone, as the ruling has set a precedent, many new cases are already possible. If I remember correctly from my previous life, they all smoke in prison. How do you assess the convictions? What consequences will the Belgian State have for this? Can the smoking policy in the cells be reviewed on the basis of the conviction? Is it still possible for non-smokers to share a cell with smokers? On the basis of the condemnation, will the shower system and activities in prisons be revised and extended? Finally, are there still pending legal proceedings against the Belgian State in which similar arguments are put forward by detainees? If so, how many?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic681x.u12	Ms De Wit, in view of the problem underlying the judgment of 16 May 2017, it does not seem appropriate to ask for the reference to the Grand Chamber. There would only be a similar procedure on detention conditions in Merksplas at Belgian level. At the European Court of Human Rights (ECHR), 35 Belgian cases are currently pending, all thematically. When the ECHR pronounces a judgment of conviction, it usually indicates a lump sum, the equitable satisfaction which the State must pay to the applicant party as compensation for the infringement of its fundamental rights, and the reimbursement of the costs and costs incurred by the applicant in his defence. The procedure followed for such payment must be carried out within the time limits prescribed by the Court, i.e. within three months of the date on which the judgment became final. Because of the condition of the prison in Vorst, I decided to close a wing further. As a result, the border is now 180 prisoners and the conditions for detention and the detention regime have been significantly improved. The problem of the Lantin prison, called "the tower", is known. This is why Masterplan III plans to demolish it and replace it with a new building. Other outdated and problematic infrastructures will also be developed through renovation projects to remedy the situation. In Jamioulx, it's over, Namur is in progress and Huy and Merksplas are in preparation. Masterplan III also provides for the construction of a new prison and an extension of capacity to existing sites. It is a long-term process that does not always go smoothly. The problem of obtaining permits for the new prison in Termonde demonstrates this. With regard to smoking policy in prisons, I can say that different variables are taken into account in cell allocation in order to ensure that complementary prisoners are put together if they have to share a cell. If circumstances beyond the control of the management, such as the overpopulation at the beginning, do not permit this, the situation shall be rectified as soon as possible. As regards the shower system and the activities, I confirm that all new construction projects or total renovations provide for the presence of a sanitary cell within the living room. In existing prisons, prisoners often have a sink, allowing them to wash there as well. Prison Directors, in consultation with the services of the Communities, will continue to take all possible initiatives to increase the range of activities and to standardise life in prison as much as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic681x.u13	Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I realise that with our current prisons, it is not so obvious to give a positive response to everyone's wishes and rights. I hope that these efforts will continue. The funds, which we must now use to pay the compensation, could have been better put into infrastructure. Then those convictions and procedures wouldn't have been necessary. We'll follow up on that. The prison system and the Master Plan must call our constant attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic681x.u14	Minister, following the extraordinary Council of Ministers on Justice, Security and Defence on 14 May, a measure related to the establishment of a central criminal record 2.0 was therefore decided. The purpose of this provision would be to streamline and collect all information held by several entities. The data in the criminal record would also be extended. In addition to basic information such as the identity of the convicted person or the reference to the judgement, professional prohibitions, prohibitions of contacts or the presence or absence of criminal transactions will also be mentioned. An investment of EUR 8 million, spread over three years, would make it possible to create a register of the execution of sentences that would give access to all the information. Minister, can you tell us more about this central criminal record? When will it be operational? Who will be responsible for holding this one? What are the advantages and disadvantages of this system? Have you identified any legislative obstacles to its implementation? Is there a similar arrangement already in other EU countries? Finally, is there already a procedure for consulting this online criminal record? Which public authorities will be able to benefit from the information in this record? Will private persons also be entitled to consult him? If so, under what criteria and by what procedure?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic681x.u15	Mr Calomne, the Special Council of Ministers on Security and Justice has taken a position of principle. The whole project can now be engaged, from analysis to its development and deployment through the award process. You notice, at the first estimate of the budget you quote yourself, that the project will take at least three years to complete. Of course, the first organization to manage this modernized and expanded registry will be the current Criminal Records Service, which is part of the FPS Justice. Business and functional analyses will tell us what technical and legal issues we need to solve. Of course, computer scientists will deal with technical issues and the legal framework will be created through a bill that I will submit, at the government's request, to Parliament for consideration and approval. Questions about who will be able to access the register, the conditions and how it may be, will obviously be answered in the bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic681x.u16	Thank you, Minister, for these points of answer. Of course, the development of this issue will be carefully monitored.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic681x.u17	Mr President, Minister, during the extended weekend of 25 May last, there were problems with the prisoners in Dendermonde and Lantin. Once again, it was about living conditions in these prisons. As you know, the construction of a new prison in Dendermonde is still part of the Master Plan 2 Prisons, which has been complemented by a Master Plan 3, which was approved by the government at the end of 2016. In the Justice Commission of 27 January 2016, you stated: "As you know, it is my priority concern to start construction in Dendermonde and Haren, together with the Minister responsible for Buildings. The prospects for both are good at the moment, but I do not want to go into detail. Minister, what are the prospects for the construction of the prison in Dendermonde today?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic681x.u18	Mr President, Mrs Lambrecht, the plan to build a new prison in Dendermonde has been with us for years. It is about replacement construction with expansion for a total of 444 places. In 2011, an agreement was concluded with BAM PPP for the construction, financing and maintenance of the building. I had hoped, along with many others, that I would be late for the official opening when I took office as Minister of Justice. Unfortunately, that was not the case. An overall overview of the many procedures that have been and are ongoing would be too extensive to read out here. To date, there are still procedures in progress at the Council of State and at the Council for Authorisations Disputes. The latter has suspended the building permit for the access road, putting the whole project on hold. We must therefore await the opinion of the competent authorities. I would like to emphasise that I deeply regret the way things are going. It has become a recurring discussion in this country, where it is becoming increasingly difficult to realise complex construction projects. It is all the more painful when it comes to projects of general interest. I therefore hope that the current procedures will be completed quickly so that the prison system finally knows what is going on with the building in Dendermonde.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic681x.u19	Mr President, may I ask whether you have any idea with the administration of how long the procedures are going to run? Are they in the final phase? Or don't you have a visual on it either?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic681x.u20	Mrs Lambrecht, I can give you an exact picture of that, but I will try to do so in writing.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic681x.u21	Question No 8895 by Mrs Karolien Grosemans has been postponed. Mr. Van Hees won't be here.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic681x.u22	Mr President, we sometimes duplicate the questions. Since we are only two, the week before the meetings, we do not always know where we will be and so we sometimes share the work. Minister, I do not know why the two questions are linked because they are different. I will put them both on the table and we can come back to that later. These two questions are in the context of your statements last Thursday in plenary. It's two questions with a different theme, so I'll ask them separately. The first question concerns alternative pre-trial detention in prison. The debate is currently being held as if these are the two only alternatives. Either we build more prisons or we give more people an electronic anklet. There are many other possibilities. In De Morgen and de Gazet van Antwerpen, research judge Karel Van Cauwenberghe has advocated an integrated approach to crime, primarily addressing the causes of certain types of crime. It is about people with addiction, people who fall through the social safety net and therefore commit criminal offences. Or strangers without papers who commit criminal acts to survive. I think it is a very important message that requires a complete reversal of policy. Justice can also take measures to deal with these people with alternative pre-trial detention. Philippe Van Linthout, the chairman of the Research Courts Association, also advocated alternative shelters last week. Antwerp's investigating judge Goedele Franssens confirmed that once again. For the same category of people who have just been listed, the electronic anklet is often not a worthy alternative because the risk of recurrence remains, they have psychological problems or they do not have a permanent residence. According to the Master Plan 3 Prisons and Internments, there would be 860 additional places for internment which you have now said on Thursday that 182 places will already be released on 29 June. My questions are as follows. First of all, is the master plan still on course? Does the target still respond to the needs? Secondly, as the investigators are asking, more attention will be paid in the future to providing alternative means of pre-trial detention for certain target groups which could reduce the overpopulation in prisons. This is part of the diversification objectives you have set out in your Master Plan 3. But apparently there is still a strong shortage. The second question is linked to that. What I want to address is the ongoing attacks on the autonomy and power of the investigating judge in the criminal investigation, a very different subject. Yesterday, avocats.be, the umbrella organisation of lawyers, gave a tip of the Commission's work on the reform of criminal proceedings. Perhaps also as a result of your intervention on Thursday in which the investigators were again the head of the court, I think in any case. One of the charges of avocats.be was against a recommendation by the expert group that the criminal investigation would only be conducted by the prosecutors and that the investigators would only retain a control function. This means abolishing the division of the criminal investigation into an investigation and a judicial investigation. In doing so, the investigating judge would indeed be reduced to a judge who decides on fundamental freedoms. For the rest, it's just gonna be a control body. In the words of avocats.be, the investigating judge loses his autonomy and becomes a judge of approval. We have often intervened to defend the autonomy and power of the investigating judge, as it is the tendency of this government to grant increasing powers to the prosecution. Here too, the same trend seems to persist. The Council of State recently confirmed in an opinion that the members of the Public Prosecutor's Office are not as independent as the members of the incumbent magistrate because of the direct relationship they have with you, the Minister for Justice. I'll come to my questions. Firstly, can you clarify your position on the position of the expert group on this issue? Secondly, is maintaining the autonomy of the investigating judge in determining the degree of punishment but also, for example, in deciding on pre-trial detention a priority for you? Thirdly, do you maintain your previous concerns about the reform of the investigation phase in the criminal trial?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic681x.u23	Mr Hedebouw, I have already communicated on a regular basis the principles of the new criminal procedure in Parliament, in this committee, as proposed by the experts working on these principles. In fact, these experts have been in this committee twice last year to propose these guidelines. I hope that at the beginning of next year I will be able to present to you the draft new code of conduct. One of the innovations is that there would still be only a preliminary investigation, which would make the rights of the parties equal in any investigation, where there are now two preliminary investigations. This preliminary investigation would in future, in the opinion of the experts, always take place under the direction of the prosecution but also under the enhanced control of a investigating judge who remains the judge of freedoms in their proposals, more than ever. During the course of the investigation, the investigating judge would perform a judicial function with regard to the investigation measures. For example, he would authorise the most intrusive measures, such as the arrest, the telephone tap, the search and a number of special detection methods. The advantage of the expert proposal is that the investigating judge no longer has a double task, namely leader, executive, and judge of the investigation, so that he can pay more attention to his actual task as judge, namely the guardian of rights and freedoms, privacy, personal freedom and so on. The law will ensure that it can always be the same investigating judge who, in a particular case, allows the special measures and exercises control. So there is also continuity on the part of the investigating judge, in the same way as there will be along the side of the parquet. Thus, the investigating judge is permanently involved in the heavier cases where special means of investigation are imposed. It is therefore by no means true that the autonomy of the investigating judge is being undermined. I'm going into remand. In the new criminal procedure law, (n.a.r.At the request of the Minister, add the following words: "as proposed by the Expert Committee," the investigating judge will be able to authorise the prosecution to rob a suspect of his freedom for a maximum period, which is renewable. Before the end of that period, the prosecution may lift the arrest or no longer request an extension. In this way, the public prosecutor can control the number of prefixes per resort, provided that a monitoring is carried out, inter alia through faster lead times of the investigations. As an alternative to pre-trial detention in prison, the new draft will also provide for pre-trial detention under electronic supervision, as will freedom under conditions. In the latter case, as you yourself said, a suspect with a particular problem, such as addiction, can be placed in a care centre rather than in a prison. These placements are, of course, in an institution other than a penitentiary and fall outside the Master Plan 3. As far as your question on internment is concerned, the opening of the FPC Antwerp is planned for the beginning of August. There'll be 182 places. With regard to other reception facilities and buildings for interns, the Council of Ministers gave its agreement a few months ago. Both the Masterplan 3 with the preparation of a number of new prisons, including Leopoldsburg, Verviers, Lantin, Vresse-sur-Semois, and the new Masterplan interned with new places in Aalst, Waver and Paifve is in full preparation. Thank you, Mr Van Hees. I apologize for calling you Mr Van Hees. I have a distracted moment. Your name was here first, but the difference between the two of you is very well known to me, my apologies.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic681x.u24	It's an honor for me to be called Mr. Van Hees! I share a great deal of passion for my comrade.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic681x.u25	Good thing I didn't say Mr. Michel!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic681x.u26	It was already less!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic681x.u27	Minister, the yellow card is not far away!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic681x.u28	An orange card for me, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic681x.u29	I don't have one!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic681x.u30	Thank you, Minister, for your answers. On the question of the procedure and the place of the investigating judge, I think, and you confirm it, that the centre of gravity will move towards the prosecutor's office. Why not send him to the investigating judge if he has to decide for a centre of gravity? If a reform is needed, why not decide in favour of one of the two options? I think all the arguments you make apply to the investigating judges. I cannot help but show a willingness to make the centre of gravity closer to the investigation to the executive. I believe that this is the problem of the model currently being developed. Many investigating judges go out in the press to get involved in the debate. That fact must make you think. This is my first point. My second point concerns Masterplan III. We will see what will be implemented in practice. I think that's the point here. It is important to have these places born for the punishment of psychiatrically ill prisoners. This is a big problem for our country. As always in Belgium, we will see before we can judge and I hope that this issue will indeed move forward in the coming months.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic681x.u31	Minister, I would like to take stock of this. Those who asked me to ask you this question have a very personal interest in this answer. The Royal Decree of 8 June 1823 containing the subsequent provisions in respect of officers and civil registry records provides that the civil registry officer may not record any act in which he or she acts as a declaration, party or witness, or any act concerning his or her spouse, parents or children. In response to a written question of 20 April 2015 concerning the incompatibilities of civil registrars, you have indicated that this royal decree is in fact intended to guarantee the neutrality of public officials but that acts taken in violation of this decree cannot be invalidated because this is not provided for by the legislation. Mr Minister, today, can a registrar, for example, a mayor, under the provisions that we have outlined above, marry his son or daughter? If not, what could be the consequences of a marriage celebrated in these circumstances? Are you aware of any good practices that have developed to overcome this prohibition while respecting the law? I am thinking, for example, of the presence of an additional registrar during the celebration. I would like to point out that this request has already been made several weeks or even months ago to the Union of Cities and Municipalities, which has not yet responded.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic681x.u32	Jadin, section 4 of the Royal Decree of 8 June 1823 containing subsequent provisions in respect of officers and civil registry records clearly provides that the registrar may not take any act in which he intervenes as a declarant, likeer or witness, or any act concerning his wife, parents or children. As I have already had the opportunity to indicate in my reply to your written question of April 20, 2015, an act that would be made in violation of this royal decree could not, however, be invalid since such a nullity is not explicitly provided for by law. I am not aware of any good practices that have developed to overcome this prohibition while respecting the law. The presence of an additional registrar seems to me to be contrary to article 125, paragraph 2, of the new communal law, which does not permit two bishops to simultaneously perform the same function, subject to the provisions of paragraph 3 in the event of an impediment. Section 125, paragraph 3, of the Act provides for the assumption of replacement in the event of the inability of the delegated officer. If the delegated officer is prevented, he will be replaced temporarily by the mayor, by an alderman, by an adviser, in the order of the respective appointments. I would add that it is envisaged that the Royal Decree of 8 June 1823 will be included in the draft law on the modernization and computerization of civil status, that my services will prepare and that I will submit it to the government as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic681x.u33	Minister, I hope that this will be clarified quickly.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic681x.u34	Mr. Chair, Mr. Minister, the College of Physicians and the College of Lawyers differ on the usefulness of legal counsel to a person subject to forensic psychiatric expertise. This possibility is provided for in Article 7 of the Act of 5 May 2014 on internment. Recently, the National Council of the Order of Physicians found that "the presence of a lawyer on the occasion of a forensic psychiatric expertise creates an analogy between this expertise and an interrogation by the police". Minister, what about this situation? Would it not be preferable to introduce compulsory legal assistance in order to ensure the legality and impartiality of the procedure for both the person with psychological disorders and psychiatrists?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic681x.u35	Ms Jadin, section 7 of the Internment Act of 5 May 2014 provides that a person who is the subject of a forensic psychiatric examination may at any time be assisted by a doctor of his choice and by a lawyer. Reparation of this law via pot-pourri III did not affect the ability to appeal to a lawyer during the realization of the expertise. In its opinion of 6 May 2017, the National Council of the Order of Physicians states that the presence of a doctor of his choice during the forensic psychiatric examination does not contribute to the proper administration of justice and that the designated psychiatrist should be able to refuse if he considers that the presence of a lawyer compromises the expertise. The Council proposes to adapt section 7 of the Internment Act to this effect. This opinion was discussed on 23 May at a meeting my strategic cell had organised with a view to preparing a royal decree determining the format of the psychiatric expert report. Representatives of bars, psychiatrists and magistrates participated. The meeting was therefore an ideal forum to discuss the opinion. The Council's opinion was not followed. Each participant pleaded for the optional assistance of a lawyer, as currently provided for by law, and was therefore opposed to the introduction of mandatory assistance. The lawyer can assess himself if his assistance to the interned person represents an added value. Internees often have a criminal history and the assistance of a lawyer may also be useful to the psychiatrist who performs the expertise. An amendment to Article 7 in the sense of compulsory assistance by a lawyer, as you suggest, or in the sense of establishing a right in the head of the psychiatrist to refuse the assistance of a lawyer during the expert examination, a suggestion of the National Council of the Order of Physicians, therefore does not seem to me to be on the agenda. I will respond to the National Council of the Order of Physicians.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic681x.u36	Minister, I have also asked Mrs Demir about this. Recently, the Chamber and the Senate were invited by the young women of Women's Life. The association conducted a survey of 405 women about their knowledge of existing mechanisms and their experiences of gender-based acts or behaviours in the public space. It is worrying that 98 per cent of young women report that they have experienced gender-based injustice in the public space and that half of them report that they are living it on a recurring basis, to the point of feeling humiliation and anger. These are both physical and verbal attacks. We have a law to protect victims of gender-based acts and to allow them to file complaints, with a view to bringing justice. On the one hand, we realize that few women are aware of this. On the other hand, the law in question places the burden of proof on the victim. This implies that witnesses agree to travel with him in the filing of a complaint. It is therefore difficult to undertake this approach. Countries such as France have several mechanisms in place. For example, in public transport, special brigades have been formed against "frotters" in order to identify men who commit particularly sexist acts. Such an initiative helps women respond. At home, we find that few complaints have been filed. Those that have been achieved have not yet been achieved. In addition, the measures vary according to the boroughs. Some of them, for example in Brussels, thus resort to administrative sanctions, which are reinforced in the case of gender-based acts. Minister, has the operation of this legislation been evaluated? Is there no need, in collaboration with the Secretary of State for Equal Opportunities and Combating Discrimination, to raise public awareness and to conduct campaigns and actions to publicize the legal system? It is a question of whether this need to bring about the burden of proof is not to be reconsidered. Another aspect of this study is that the law deals with sexist acts and behaviour, while sometimes surrounded by messages through advertising or other public means of expression. The current law does not deal with these issues. Minister, I would have liked to have your appreciation of how this is going. How can we improve both the knowledge and the mechanism to meet concerns and prevent the inconvenience and humiliation experienced by these women and young women in the field?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic681x.u37	Mr President, Mrs Gerkens, since the entry into force of the Act of 22 May 2014 to combat sexism in public spaces, forms of street sexual intimidation and sexual intimidation in public places are punishable. The law provides that anyone who commits any public act or conduct in the presence of a witness whose purpose is to express contempt for a person on account of his or her sexual affiliation or to consider him or her, for the same reason, to be inferior or essentially reduced to his or her sexual dimension, shall be punishable. On 20 January 2015, this law was appealed to the Constitutional Court for annulment. However, the Court rejected all the grievances in principle. The issue of sexism in the public space will be addressed as part of the training for judicial trainees in the next judicial year on hate crimes and discrimination. The issue is also addressed at the annual meetings held in the Public Prosecutor's Office in accordance with the COL13/2013 of the Minister of Justice, the Minister of the Interior and the College of Attorneys General. It is a circular on research and prosecution policy on discrimination and hate crimes, including gender discrimination, which naturally also applies to sexism in public space. The Public Prosecutor's Office works closely with the Institute for the Equality of Women and Men. As far as the burden of proof is concerned, I can tell you that the normal rules of evidence also apply to this issue. It is clear that proving such offences is not simple and the willingness to file a complaint seems to remain rather weak. But if we can invest in raising awareness among a broad public, people will also be more willing to testify about such events. With regard to prevention and awareness raising, I would like to refer to my colleague, the Secretary of State for Equal Opportunities, whom you have already interviewed. There is a need to invest primarily in awareness-raising. The judicial approach must probably be limited to the most serious facts. In the National Action Plan to Combat All Forms of Gender-Based Violence (Action Plan 2015-2019), measures were announced to raise awareness of the fight against sexism and stereotypes as forms of gender-based violence and the fight against sexism in the media. The Institute for Gender Equality has a coordinating role in the implementation of the National Action Plan. My administration is also part of the interdepartmental working group that follows, implements, monitors and evaluates the plan. As far as municipal administrative sanctions are concerned, I refer to my colleague from the Interior.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic681x.u38	Minister, thank you for your answers. It is true that some skills are shared. I agree that the law is not enough to deal with these behaviours. Awareness-raising and information are obviously crucial elements. I hear that this is a competence of Mrs Demir. Having said that, I think it may be important for your existing collaboration to include this instrument as well. Awareness and information are not limited to saying: "It is wrong. We can't." It also involves explaining how to react, how to manifest, how to support a victim as a witness. We will soon be reviewing the evaluation report of the Anti-Discrimination Act, which will soon be translated, at the end of next week. I will discuss the modalities with my colleague, the Chairman of the Committee on Justice. We may be able to deepen the gender dimension of the multiple discriminations that sadly amplify our society.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic681x.u39	Following on from my oral question on the recognition of mosques on 10 May, you gave the following answer regarding the planning of a meeting between Minister Homans' cabinet and the VSSE: "In response to my letter of 2 May, there was a contact between the two policy cells and a new date for consultation was set." I would like to ask the following questions. First of all, has that meeting taken place in the meantime? Secondly, what were the conclusions? Thirdly, in the meantime, is there any clarity as to the division of tasks between them?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic681x.u40	Mrs Lambrecht, on 16 May last there was indeed a frank and free consultation between our two cabinets. Essentially, it clarified the role of State Security in the recognition process of local faith communities and in the follow-up and evaluation of the conditions of recognition that faith communities are effectively recognised. As a general rule, State Security intervenes only if there are substantial and pertinent indications that there is a threat of terrorism, extremism, espionage or clandestine interference in specific religious communities. Therefore, the safety assessment prior to recognition by the regional minister and the annual evaluation of recognised religious communities take into account only those four main threats. Thus it was merely pointed out that polarisation, problems of integration and political influence are a focus for the VSSE and are only a focus for the VSSE, the Security of the State, to the extent that they are an aspect of one of the four previous threats.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic681x.u41	Question No 19025 by Mrs Winckel is transformed into a written question. His question No. 19049 has been included in item 8 of our agenda.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic681x.u42	Mr President, Minister, the law on the extended friendly settlement has rightly been a controversial law since it was introduced. In recent months, a committee of inquiry has been set up to examine how this law has been implemented. In the meantime, it's clear that there's a lot going on. Just hacking colleague Gilkinet and spreading fake news show that. About a year ago, on 2 June 2016, the Constitutional Court ruled that Article 2016a, § 2 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, which regulates the sale law, violates the principle of equality, the prohibition of discrimination and the right to a fair trial. The Court ruled that there was a lack of control by the court, because even a friendly settlement could be made after a criminal action had already been established. The judge could only check the formal aspects. However, according to the Constitutional Court, the judge should be able to exercise full supervision, both as regards the proportionality of the intended amicable settlement and as regards legality. In doing so, the Court went against the view of an alternative, extrajudicial handling policy. Afterwards a circular letter from the College of Attorneys General to put the law on hold. Yet, as became relatively soon known, the buy-back law was still applied. According to figures in the press, at least three cases would have been settled in Ghent and one in Kortrijk by a friendly settlement, despite the fact that this was not allowed according to the circular letter and that the Constitutional Court had seriously questioned the buy-back law. In the meantime, you had started working on a recovery law, but you postponed it because of the work of the Kazachgate Committee. At the beginning of this year, you promised to wait for the supplement so that you could take that into account. Meanwhile, however, the majority blocked the discussion of the contents of the buy-back law in the committee. Last week, a number of things happened at almost the same time. The majority limited the hearings to the summer recess. It was also announced that the College of Attorneys General had sent a confidential circular in which it called for the re-application of the buy-back law, in other words that court cases can be repurchased again through the extended friendly settlement. At the same time, you indicated that you still want to get the recovery law through Parliament as soon as possible, even before the summer, before the work of the committee of inquiry on the implementation of the 2011 law has been completed. First of all... Why this sudden rush, Minister? Is there a connection with the limitation of specific files as suggested in the press? Secondly, will your bill do nothing more than include the opinion of the Constitutional Court in the law? Or is there provision for other measures? Thirdly, can you tell us the exact figures of the number of friendly settlements that were made between the first circular that put on hold the extended friendly settlement and this circular that once again encourages it? Fourthly, why was a confidential circular chosen? Why should the content not be known to the public and the lawyer? Fifthly, have you mainly communicated with the College of Attorneys General on the re-application of the buy-back law and the drafting of this circular?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic681x.u43	Mr Hedebouw, first of all, I would like to refer you to the detailed answer I gave on this subject last Thursday in plenary following a number of questions. With regard to Mr Gilkinet's question concerning the period between the proposed extended transaction and the finding of the termination of the public action, it appears that it depends on the concrete elements of the case and the state of the proceedings. It is not possible to deduce a line in this respect. I do not have any statistical data on this subject. With regard to the other figures requested, the College of Attorneys General had put the registration of the application of the extended transaction on hold after the ruling of the Constitutional Court and a directive of 16 June 2016 of the Attorneys General to no longer enter into further negotiations. At the time, registration was also not carried out in a uniform manner in the various jurisdictions, notwithstanding the relevant 2014 Directive. In the meantime, the College of Attorneys General decided to lift the provisional guidelines of 16 June 2016 and to allow the application of the law on the extended friendly settlement. Directives were also issued to achieve uniform registration and thus to be able to provide the required data in the future. The recent directives of the Attorney General also recommend that we proceed as carefully as possible and ensure that effective judicial control is carried out in cases where criminal proceedings have already been instituted. This is an autonomous initiative of the College of Attorneys General, after analysing recent case-law, taking into account a number of cases in which there is a risk of limitation. This decision of the College was prompted, in particular, by the fact that the Ecofin network of expertise, which is sensitive to the field, asked to adopt a new position, taking into account the evolution of the case-law, in order to allow a constitutionally consistent application of Article 216a of the Code of Criminal Procedure. The College informed me not to settle any politically difficult dossiers at this time. I have not given any guidance or initiative in this regard. I have not been informed of any specific dossiers either. It is not a confidential directive of the College, but similar directives of each attorney general individually for its jurisdiction. Each Attorney General will have to decide whether to open new negotiations or to continue ongoing negotiations in his area of responsibility. Finally, I would like to make it clear that my initiative to prepare a repair law is certainly not motivated by haste, but rather by concerns about the inclusion in the Code of Criminal Procedure of a corresponding legislation which is in conformity with the Constitution. The draft law provides for the extension of the judge's discretion. More specifically, the judge will check not only whether the formal conditions of application are met and whether the victim and the tax and social administrations will be compensated, but also whether the author has accepted the transaction and the proposed measures in a free and thoughtful manner, and whether the transaction and the measures proposed by the King's prosecutor are proportionate to the seriousness of the facts and the personality of the author. I believe that this completely meets the concern of the Constitutional Court, which, to be clear, did not annul the provisions in question, but answered a question for a preliminary ruling. Parliament will be able to judge this after the parliamentary holidays, if any, and if the Committee on Justice so wishes, after hearings by experts and on the ground, therefore at the time when the parliamentary committee of inquiry on Kazakhgate has been able to complete its work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic681x.u44	Minister, thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic681x.u45	Mr. Secretary, on May 30th, Het Laatste Nieuws reported on the retirement of a clerk in Mechelen. The position of the man is no longer filled out by savings in the courts. The chair of the Mechelen department indicated that there is already a shortage of staff among the clerks, including by changing to other departments. The remaining clerks face an increased risk of burn-out and depression as a result of the increased workload. Last year, the College of Courts and Courts already sued this situation. According to the College, the laws laying down the frameworks have not been complied with for years, leading to a structural understaff. This applies to magistrates and clerks, the services of the public prosecutor and the staff. The College sued that justice should be treated as an administration under custody. In summary, his specific demands were as follows: compliance with the laws laying down the frameworks and the organisation of new examinations for levels B and C by Selor, raising funding to the needs of enabling the modernisation of justice, improving working conditions, in particular on housing, security, information technology and access to legal documentation, and management that respects the independence of the judiciary. So my questions are as follows, Minister. What has been the evolution of the number of clerks since the current government took office? What is the situation with the other staff of the courts? Are there any courts or departments that have identified a serious shortage of personnel? Have you taken concrete steps to comply with the requirements of the College of Courts and Courts?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic681x.u46	Mr Hedebouw, since the law of 1 December 2013 on the reform of the judicial districts and amending the Code of Justice in order to increase the mobility of members of the judicial order, the judicial staff of level A and B has been appointed to the judicial district. Article 159 of the Civil Code provides for this. The Registrars are therefore not appointed to a department. It belongs to the power of the President and the Chief Registrar, in accordance with the Court's own organisation, to employ the Registrars in such a way as to ensure that the service is provided across all departments. From this point of view, the bestaffining of clerks in Mechelen is primarily an internal matter. As regards the Registrars before the Court of First Instance in Antwerp, the occupation in the province amounts to 93 %. However, my administration, in cooperation with the support service of the College of the Courts and Courts, follows the overall situation of the various courts, taking into account the well-known outflow. Such monitoring shall lead, at regular intervals, to the publication of vacant relations, including of Registrar. For example, in March, the procedures for the completion of 124 Level B places were initiated for its Registrars and Secretaries to be replaced and, at the end of April, for 196 Level C relations, assistants and level D assistants. In consultation with the judicial authorities, a new vacancy plan is currently being prepared to open up another hundred relations to various Registrys. The support service of the College of the Courts and Courts is currently consulting the various Management Committees on this matter with a view to achieving an adequate distribution of resources.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic681x.u47	I thank the minister for his response. I am well aware of the question of mobility, but I believe that this is rather a global quantitative problem at the level of the various boroughs. I take note of the 100 additional replacements, if I understand correctly, scheduled for the clerks next year.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic681x.u48	(...) 196 level C. In March, 124 level B clerks will be hired. And, at the end of April, 196 level C and D. Together, that's 320 places.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic681x.u49	Thank you, Mr President, Minister, a ministerial decision setting up an Advisory Committee on Civil Procedure appeared in the Belgian Official Journal of 27 October 2016. Four members were appointed to the committee: Mr Boularbah, Mr Taelman, Mr Van Drooghenbroeck and Mr Deconinck. The committee would have the task of giving an opinion on the approximation of legislation on the treatment and prosecution of civil cases and legal remedies, as well as on additional aspects of civil procedural law that could be taken into consideration, with a view to modernising, simplifying and speeding up civil proceedings. End of quote. My question is brief and concise, Minister, what is the state of play in the work of that committee?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic681x.u50	Mr President, Mr Terwingen, the opinion committee forwarded to me its report just before the Easter recess on 15 April. The committee has expressly confirmed that I can fully have this report and give it the publicity I consider useful. I am here to present the report to the Secretariat of the Commission of Justice for further dissemination and indeed to keep a copy at your disposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic681x.u51	In all other cases, it would be very surprising that the minister plays so short on the ball. In this case, I am not surprised, since I know, Minister, that this is your way of working. I think, Mr President of this committee, that together with the chairman and the other members, we will have access to, and take note of, the report. Then we will look at how we can take further steps, support your policies and simplify or make more efficient all aspects of legal proceedings, including civil proceedings.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic681x.u52	Question No 19084 by Mr Kir is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic681x.u53	Minister, a number of questions have already been asked in this committee over the past few months concerning the plans to close a large part of the peace courts. We too believe that justice should be brought closer to the people. The judges of peace are the judges to whom ordinary citizens still have relatively easy access both because of their proximity and because of the smooth procedure and low costs. Your plans to close a large part of the peace courts also threaten to have an impact on the Legal Assistance Committees where citizens can receive free guidance advice from a lawyer. These services provide essential first-line assistance for citizens who often do not understand the formal language or procedures in the Justice Department. In Borgerhout this service had office hours in the same building as the peace court that you planned to disappear. The population will therefore also have to travel much further to consult a CJB, as with the peace process. This increased inaccessibility once again constitutes a barrier to justice. I have two questions for you, Minister. Will you possibly provide alternatives in consultation with your fellow Members so that the Legal Assistance Committees remain easily accessible to local residents? Do you have plans to further promote free first-line legal assistance in the future?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic681x.u54	Mr Hedebouw, I was surprised by the questions about the presence of the Committee on Legal Assistance in Borgerhout. So I went to check in. The services have confirmed to me that they are not aware of this presence of the Committee on Legal Assistance in Borgerhout. The Legal Assistance Committee is organized by the Bar and officially my services only know of their presence in the Butterfly Palace. Nevertheless, this may have been achieved from a local consultation, but that has not been reported to me at any time in the preparation of the Peace Courts dossier. The integration of the canton of Borgerhout into the Butterfly Palace will soon be requested by the president of the peace and police judges of Antwerp. Finally, I can also tell you that since the sixth state reform, the Community has been responsible for the substantive organisation of first-line legal assistance.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic681x.u55	Minister, we're going to help you communicate. We will ask that on the ground too, information on the existence of this Legal Aid Committee be transmitted to the various departments.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic681x.u56	Oral questions Nos 18853 and 18854 by Mrs Özlem Özen are postponed. Oral question No 19099 by Mrs Kristien Van Vaerenbergh is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic681x.u57	Minister, I have recently been questioned about the situation in this psychiatric annex. The staff of the care team, who must supervise the inmates in the psychiatric annex, are reportedly understaffed, and this is a cause for great concern within the institution. According to the information provided to me, several essential functions, including psychologist, social worker and educator, are no longer occupied due to long-term absences. For other functions, replacements would be required in the short term, but they are slow to become effective, particularly for psychiatrists and occupational therapists. Prisoners or internees residing in psychiatric annexes of penal institutions require specific and strengthened care and support. In view of the considerable efforts you have made since the beginning of the legislature to improve the plight of internees and the situation in psychiatric annexes, I must not convince you of the need to remedy this situation as quickly as possible. Minister, are you aware of this situation? How is the staff of the Psychiatric Annex of the Lantin Prison made up? Is this framework completed? How is the health care team composed? Do some of these functions fall within the competence of the Wallonia-Brussels Federation, for example in the field of social monitoring, psychological follow-up, etc.- Is that what you're saying? Have any measures been taken or are they going to be taken to remedy the shortage of staff in the psychiatric annex of the Lantin prison?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic681x.u58	Mr President, as regards the first question and the fifth question, I am indeed informed of the situation in Lantin. My administration and I have been looking for solutions for some time now. For example, the Citadel's psychiatry services have been providing three half-days a week to the annex since 1 June. A fourth day will be organised from 15 June and a fifth in November 2017. It is also possible that one of the psychiatrists, who would be responsible for the annex, may request to participate in an additional half-day. In addition, there is a reasonable hope of recovering a consultation on diabetes. This consultation is essential given the increasing number of diabetics in prisons in general and in psychiatric services in particular. The possibility of completing the existing care team is currently being discussed with the Personnel Department. We are working on an internal procedure that would allow psychosocial staff, who wish to join the care team, and vice versa, to have the opportunity to do so. There are candidates for the care team. Both the management and the inspector and psychologist counsellors who have this section of Lantin in charge are currently under discussion with the Inmate Assistance Service. This service has indeed indicated that it wants to develop an offer for Lantin's annex. The executive is composed of two psychologists, a social worker, an occupational therapist, an educator and a psychiatric nurse. To date, there is a full-time occupational therapist and a full-time social worker who returned from sick leave on June 1. Both psychologists are absent for personal convenience. The educator is pregnant and has therefore been removed from the service. The P&O Service has opened positions for the Psychiatric Care Team in Lantin: a psychiatric nurse, an educator, and an occupational therapist. The criminologist hired by Public Health, who works in all Francophone annexes as well as at the Paifve social defence institution, has strengthened her work in Lantin. DG PPE contacted the inmate support services during the absence of the social worker to request their cooperation. This contact continues with a view to improving care. A meeting will take place on June 19 in Lantin, with the ESTIM mobile team to see what help it can provide in the care of interned patients as well as in their reintegration work. Finally, the care of a psychologist, who might fall within the competence of the Wallonia-Brussels Federation, is being examined.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-07-54-commissie-ic681x.u59	Minister, thank you for these answers, both concrete and precise.
