ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-26-54-plenair-ip154x.u1	The meeting is open. The meeting was opened.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-26-54-plenair-ip154x.u2	[[for the standing meeting]] The President [[in front of the assembly standing]] Ladies and gentlemen, On 9 January, Josepha De Loore-Raeymaekers, an honorary member of the Chamber of Representatives, died in Dessel, 94 years old. Zefa Raeymaekers was born in Retie on September 11, 1922. She studied for teacher and then studied typography in higher art education. After working as a home teacher with the Van Cauwelaert family and as a freelance journalist, she became a professional journalist at the newspaper Gazet van Antwerpen. Her scarce spare time dedicated Zefa De Loore-Raeymaekers, who was the mother of four children, to poetry. She not only wrote poems herself under the pseudonym Rita Reene, but also encouraged other authors, including within the Association of Kempische Schrijvers, of which she was a member for many years. In the meantime, Zefa De Loore-Raeymaekers had also engaged in the Kempian Christian Democracy. On January 1, 1971 she became a city council member in Vosselaar, a mandate which she would again hold from 1977 to 1982. Appointed provincial senator in April 1977, Zefa De Loore-Raeymaekers embarked on national politics. Four years later, in November 1981, she was elected MP for the CVP. During the six years during which she sat in our Assembly, she was mainly active in the Committee on Public Health, the Family and the Environment, as well as in the Committee on Education, Scientific Policy and Culture; from 1985 to 1987, she also chaired the Committee on Naturalisations. As a member of the Cultural Council of the Dutch Cultural Community and, from October 1980 onwards, a member of the Flemish Council, Zefa De Loore-Raeymaekers pays particular attention to youth and sports policy, spatial planning and environmental conservation, and media policy. Because of her Flemish commitment, she is also interested in language legislation and the preservation of the language. Because Zefa Raeymaekers, who was very close to the Kempen, had helped to make Hoogstraten a city from 1985, she was named Hoogstraten's honorary citizen in 2012, a title she was particularly proud of. Zefa Raeymaekers belonged to a generation for which Catholicism and Flemishism were inextricably linked. She herself was a stylish lady with character, as well as the sweet grandmother of 15 grandchildren and two great grandchildren. On behalf of the House, I offered our sincere condolences to his family. I welcome the family who is present in the gallery.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-26-54-plenair-ip154x.u3	Mr President, the government joins the Chamber to pay tribute to Mrs Zefa Raeymaekers. We would like to express our appreciation for her political commitment. Zefa Raeymaekers sat in Parliament for almost ten years, first in the Senate and then in the Chamber. Zefa Raeymaekers was proud of her Kempense origin and the values of the CVP. She was greatly involved in the local life in Vosselaar, where she was elected city council member, as well as in Hoogstraten, which she posted internationally. Her love for the letters has also left a mark on her career. Before joining the CVP, she was active in journalism. She worked as a journalist for the Gazette of Antwerp, among other things. Zefa Raeymaekers leaves behind a large family. On behalf of the government, I would like to express our sincere condolences to the family during this difficult period.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-26-54-plenair-ip154x.u4	I propose that we observe some silence in the memory of our colleague.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-26-54-plenair-ip154x.u5	Mr President, Prime Minister, once again, we find ourselves discussing the tax on financial transactions in plenary. Unfortunately, this is not the first time. I will still take the time to reread your statements in this rostrum. On June 16, you said: "Yes, the government agreement is clear, as is the mandate given to the minister, which Kern confirmed yesterday. Yes to the tax on financial transactions; yes to negotiations for a solution." On 1 December last year, you again took the floor in response to a question: "The Tobin tax has been an international initiative in recent years and Belgium has taken an important part in it. In the rostrum of the United Nations, I made it clear that this instrument would represent a major step towards greater equity. And so I confirm without hesitation, with the utmost clarity, on behalf of the four political groups that make up the majority, that we want to support the principle of a tax on financial transactions." Yet last Wednesday, your Minister of Finance, Mr. Van Overtveldt, again opposed the draft tax on financial transactions at a ceremony at Euronext, in front of a guest room. Prime Minister, when will this end? When are we going to stop this hypocrisy? Who decides in this government? Wouldn't it be time for you to punch your fist on the table and pass words to deeds? What message will your minister, clearly in charge of Eurosceptism, have to convey to Belgium at its informal meeting with the other Member States that are actually constructive? Is there any development in your government before tomorrow?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-26-54-plenair-ip154x.u6	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to reiterate that it is important to look at the whole government agreement. I would remind you once again that we are indeed in favour of such a mechanism for the taxation of financial speculation, provided that, as the government agreement expressly states, we are reassured about the implications of the measure for real economic activities. I am thinking, for example, of the implications in the area of debt burden financing for Belgium. Secondly, it is surprising, to say the least, that some give the same incorrect argument, each time, that it would be Belgium alone which would block agreement on such taxation. We are still in the group of ten European countries trying to analyse the possibility of entrusting the Commission with making operational proposals on the subject. If it were that simple, and if the difficulties you seem to be sweeping with a back of your hand with simplicity did not exist, the other countries would not need Belgium to implement such a tax. I say this clearly: the whole government finds itself around the government agreement and is in favour of this tax, provided that the implementation arrangements preserve our country's economic interests and therefore those of our fellow citizens. That is at stake! To be quite precise, a few days ago, as part of the work carried out, the Presidency decided to postpone the meeting on the subject. It will take place in the coming weeks. At the last Kern, we confirmed, for the umpteenth time, the same mandate to the minister, on the basis of the text that you know perfectly well. You can continue, systematically, sitting after sitting, to give the impression that there would be a lack of clarity. But our position is very clear. We are therefore in favour of the modalities demonstrating that there is no negative impact on the real economy and therefore on our citizens.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-26-54-plenair-ip154x.u7	Prime Minister, you say that the position is very clear, but this is clearly not the case with your Minister of Finance. Furthermore, I would remind you that one of the representatives of the TAXUD, in the Committee on Finance, has swept away the arguments relating to the real economy and the debt that you have just advanced. You say the others are slow to move forward. The European Commissioner, Pierre Moscovici, told us that what was delaying things was our country's non-constructive attitude. If you can't call your finance minister to order, take the ball again, as you did for other files! Unfortunately, we can only see that there are so few things moving here. I will finish my speech by daring to make a comparison. Indeed, I am concerned about this issue. Previously, in the world of football, it was said that everyone was playing, but that it was always Germany that won. In this file, as in other files, I have the feeling that the MR plays, that the CD&V plays, that the Open Vld plays, but that, in the end, it's still the N-VA that wins.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-26-54-plenair-ip154x.u8	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by congratulating the government and Minister Alexander De Croo, who has decided to contribute to the creation of a new international fund for safe abortion, in response to Donald Trump's decision to cancel the funding of a number of American abortion organisations. This shows moral leadership and we fully support the Minister. On the other hand, Secretary of State Theo Francken, who says about Donald Trump, even now, that one must wait and give the man a chance, and Secretary of State Pieter De Crem, who is moderately positive about the new American President. Colleagues, Donald Trump's oath as president took place less than a week ago. I only have two minutes to speak, so not enough time to list all Donald Trump's decisions, but it is a very worrying list. I don't think there's any more certainty in the world. Donald Trump denies global warming, he censors his own environmental agency, he builds new oil pipelines in the middle of nature reserve, he wants to build a wall of over 3 000 kilometres along the border with Mexico and a torture technique like waterboarding apparently he doesn't find a problem. The fact that the N-VA wants to give that man a chance is entirely on her. But what about CD&V? What's going on with that party? Is that the new "I'm us"? What will be the policy, Prime Minister, with regard to the new American President? Ladies and gentlemen, we must get to work. We need a new US strategy in our country, as well as in Europe. That strategy must be assertive. Not naive but assertive and departing from our own norms and values. If we do not do it ourselves, ladies and gentlemen, if we believe that we have the luxury of sitting back, others will do it in our place and Europe is the rise, then Europe is the laggard. In short, Prime Minister, is the whole government aware of this awareness? Will you come to Parliament with a new plan of action, with a new strategic vision vis-à-vis the new United States?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-26-54-plenair-ip154x.u9	Mr President, Prime Minister, CD&V, along with many in this country, is concerned about Mr Trump's protectionist statements and about the actions he has already taken, such as the lifting of the Trans-Pacific Partnership. In the 1930s they conducted the begger-thy-neigbour policy. Then the toll walls were raised, which led to an enormous depression in which ultimately no one knew any prosperity. After the war, the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade was established, also with the US. In Europe, the customs union, which formed the basis of the European Union, was also one of the drivers of economic growth. That is why it is frightening that a true protectionist wave is spreading across the world from America. The whole world trade organization is in danger of falling apart under pressure from the US. It has been calculated that the introduction of toll rates of 5% for Europe can cost up to 250 000 jobs and 5 000 jobs for Belgium. That is double what was lost after the closure of certain large companies. America is the most important and largest investor in our region. If that falls back, it will be a huge problem for Flanders. I can reassure Mr De Vriendt that CD&V is not going on the protectionist tour. On the contrary, we have always defended world trade. Prime Minister, how do you see these developments at world level? What can be the consequences for Belgium? How can the EU respond to this?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-26-54-plenair-ip154x.u10	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, these are indeed crucial questions and challenges for the future of Belgium, but also for Europe. We must show respect for the results of the democratic elections that have taken place in the United States. However, these elections and Trump's choice are not the only important elements of recent months. The outcome of the UK Brexit referendum also has an important impact on the future for Belgium and, more generally, on Europe. What's my point of view? We must try to remain rational as much as possible because relations are primarily relations between the US on the one hand and Europe and Belgium on the other. We have to stay professional. This means that in the coming weeks and months we must try to develop a common European strategy in the light of a new political balance and a new situation at international level. That is why I intend to put this important item on the agenda of the next informal summit in Malta on behalf of Belgium. I believe it is important to have a strategy for another form of dialogue as regards relations with an important neighbour such as Russia. I am convinced that transatlantic cooperation remains very important, but without being naive, we need to consider what our future interests are at European level. The most important conclusion for me is that it is more important than ever to pursue a different, more voluntaristic strategy at European level. Perhaps a broad consensus is possible. That's crucial. This strategy should include a number of concrete priorities for our fellow citizens, such as internal and external security, the choice of European Defence and the choice of concrete short-, medium- and long-term investments, as well as economic priorities. Protectionism means more poverty at international level. That is why I am in favour of good cooperation. We will have the opportunity in the next few weeks and months to get more information on the strategy of the new administration of the United States. For example, there will be a first appointment tomorrow with Donald Trump and the British Prime Minister. I hope that we will have more clarity, but we cannot wait passively. On the contrary, at European level, Belgium must play a key role in implementing an intelligent strategy and looking rationally at the future, in the interests of Europe and at all levels.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-26-54-plenair-ip154x.u11	Therefore, Prime Minister, come to Parliament for Belgium with a new strategic vision. I would urge you to do so across the borders of majority and opposition, so that we have broad support. I would also ask you to end with dissonant votes by one majority party within your government. After all, I suppose Secretary of State De Crem is speaking on behalf of his party. For us, a number of principles are important. Firstly, we must not be disdainful of those who voted for Donald Trump in America. We must try to understand their reasons. We must confront these reasons and not be derogatory about them. Secondly, free trade also has losers. Free trade can be very naive if we allow our market to be flooded by products from countries that do not have the same social and environmental standards as we do. Prime Minister, you did not talk about climate change. However, what Donald Trump is planning to do with the fight against global warming is particularly worrying if we lose the United States as a partner in this matter. So I look forward to the debate. We must not let everything depend on Europe. In Belgium too, in this Parliament, let us move beyond party boundaries towards a new approach and strategy. I look forward to the debate. I also look forward to the contribution of CD&V in that debate. I hope that that party will find its common sense in that dossier and that the violins will be voted correctly.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-26-54-plenair-ip154x.u12	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your reply. We must indeed develop an intelligent strategy. I say this also with regard to the Greens. Free trade has created prosperity. The international division of labour has also made Flanders from a poor to a rich region. Foreign investment has brought prosperity here. Mr Nollet, that model of customs union, the dismantling of the toll, the internal market, all things to which you have always been tempestuous, because it was about free competition, has become the basis of world prosperity, including our prosperity in Europe. We will defend that model. Mr Prime Minister, we are counting on you, and you have spoken very clearly in that regard. We need more Europe and more international cooperation. Protectionism and nationalism function in a way that destroys prosperity. That is the line we will follow, including at European level.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-26-54-plenair-ip154x.u13	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we are experiencing a serious crisis of governance. For months now, every day we have had a lot of revelations, whether in the Kazakhgate case, in the Publifin case, about conflicts of interest, indecent remuneration financed from public funds, salaries paid without compensation, or completely unacceptable cumulations of office. The impact of these revelations in terms of good public governance is obviously dramatic. More fundamentally, the image that is sent back to our fellow citizens is absolutely catastrophic. We are all aware of that. The gap between the population and the political world continues to widen. These truly intolerable and unbearable practices, of course, only feed populist discourse. A Walloon minister resigned this morning. It is, of course, a whole system that needs to be thoroughly renovated, including at the federal level. We, environmentalists, have been developing proposals and defending governance projects for decades. We're ready. Today I hear that traditional parties are holding speeches expressing a wish to move forward on these issues. That is positive, and we welcome it. Prime Minister, I want to say to you: let us move from words to deeds! Together, let us set up a genuine "transparency" operation which, in the eyes of our fellow citizens, is absolutely necessary. In this regard, I would like to ask you the following two questions. Yesterday, in the Conference of Presidents, an agreement was reached to discuss the governance proposals of all political parties as soon as possible. First of all, I would like to know what the government's involvement in this process will be. Then, do you intend to introduce legislation in this area? I am thinking in particular of the decumulation and publication of public and private functions and remuneration - two themes dear to ecologists.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-26-54-plenair-ip154x.u14	Mr President, Prime Minister, this is still a scandal, a very big governance problem in our country. If we could say at one time that there was a gap between the citizen and the political world, now it is a canyon. Even if today, in the proper sense of the word, it is in Wallonia that the earth trembles, this umpteenth scandal affects the whole of our country. Two years ago, following the Kubla case, I was already asking you about this governance problem. Then there was the Optima case, the Kazakhgate case, two scandals that currently justify parliamentary commissions of inquiry, of which the PTB is excluded; a case where it is found that a former president of the Senate has received 2,000 euros an hour to pass a custom law that allows a mafia billionaire to escape prosecution. And now there's the Publifin case, in which some members of your party seem to forget that they are themselves involved. Resignations are necessary, but they are no longer sufficient. It is the system itself that needs to be changed because two major problems are related to it: on the one hand, the ethical problem posed by politicians who forget that they are there to serve and not to use themselves; and, on the other hand, that of politicians who bank with great capital and defend particular interests. Does your government therefore consider measures in terms of governance and political ethics? Two years ago, following the Kubla case, I submitted a bill to make public the wealth of politicians. Do you or do you not support this proposal?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-26-54-plenair-ip154x.u15	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, like all of you, I take this issue of the necessary confidence in our democratic institutions very seriously. This trust can only exist if there is indeed this requirement of exemplaryness, this permanent requirement of full transparency of public action, of improving prevention and of combating all forms of conflict of interest. It is necessary to ensure that our citizens have the capacity to adhere to those who have genuine democratic conviction. I can see that a number of elements in the press are serious. We must take them seriously as a government or parliament. I appreciated Mr Vanden Burre's comments in which I felt a willingness to work together, majority and opposition, and to have cooperation, parliament and government. My Government will indeed be on the front line to see how we can, together, with full respect for the role of Parliament, make progress on these extremely important issues in my view. In the past, various political majorities, and often with the support of a parliament, sometimes exceeding the majority-opposition divide, have progressed. I will mention, for example, legislation on the financing of political parties, declarations of mandates and declarations of assets. These are a few examples in which, by breaking conventional political barriers, it has been possible to be uplifted in order to meet this requirement of support for trust for our democratic institutions. I welcome the decision taken at the start of the Bureau of Parliament. To the extent of its capacity, the Government will cooperate as widely as possible with Parliament on these matters. I do not want to anticipate the debates, but we will have to have an opportunity to exchange arguments and see what types of majority can develop to support efforts towards a more transparent and exemplary public life. We will have to work together to build confidence in our democratic institutions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-26-54-plenair-ip154x.u16	Prime Minister, thank you for your answer. I take note of your willful remarks, your statements of intent, which I consider strong and which go in the direction desired by my Ecolo-Groen Group. I take the opportunity to take the leap forward in order, as soon as possible, to conduct a calm debate with a view to greater transparency and better public governance. I sincerely believe that the current context is unbearable. We all hear reactions from completely shocked citizens. We need to go fast, strong, but well; move forward together and bring answers in a very tight timing. The environmentalists are ready.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-26-54-plenair-ip154x.u17	Prime Minister, I asked you a clear question, namely, do you support the proposal for a public heritage so that the public can know the heritage of each politician? It was a simple question, which seems to me to be essential today in terms of political ethics. You didn't answer that. I draw the appropriate conclusions. I also note that since 2014 and despite the accumulation of scandals, your government has done nothing to fight for a better political ethic. I can only remind you of the disgust of the population for the people who use themselves, for those who have been elected to serve the general interest and who confuse this general interest with the particular interests of some or with their own personal interest. At the PTB, we have a different conception of policy. We believe that we must serve and not serve ourselves. And that is why we are living on an average wage as a worker, for ethical reasons, but also because, like that, we know what it is like to increase VAT, excise duty, index jump, etc. I am not asking you to apply the internal rules of the PTB, but in any case, today it is time to review the revenues of politicians in our country.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-26-54-plenair-ip154x.u18	Mr President, Prime Minister, the head of our state security informed us yesterday that they know that some twenty foreign terrorist fighters or Syrian fighters would intend to return to Belgium. That worries us, of course. I think everyone agrees that the government is doing everything it can to safeguard and protect the freedom and security of its citizens. Not a week goes by unless there is a legislative initiative or an adaptation to the operational and executive framework to confirm this. There is also the law of July 2015. That law has come incredibly quickly and means that it is punishable by criminal law to travel to the area of terrorism or conflict, to give just one example. Now it appears that the playing time in Iraq and Syria has been done forever and the ground is getting hot under their feet, those Syrian fighters have the intention to return. We are talking about 4 000 to 5 000 Syrian fighters who want to move towards heimat. Let us not be naive and think that they have repented and are no longer a danger to our society and society. Let's not be blind to that. Prime Minister, is there a plan? How do we handle this? Will we be ready by the time this foreign terrorist fighters or Syrian fighters return to our territory? Will they be systematically arrested and followed up? I would also very much like to know if our prisons are ready for this, but I may have to turn to the Minister of Justice for this earlier.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-26-54-plenair-ip154x.u19	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this is, of course, a very important challenge for the Belgian Government and also for other governments in Europe. We know that, given the situation in Syria, we are once again faced with a risk of a number of returnees, people who might return to Europe. It is the responsibility of the government and the security services to work proactively and to be alert and remain vigilant. That is also our commitment. We've been working hard for the last few weeks and months. You have, for example, reminded us of the concrete measures - more capacity and resources - including at the legal level. That's an important step, but it's not enough. This means that a mixed strategy of our security services, with the support of the government, was necessary and necessary. That is why we have taken initiatives. We have made progress in recent weeks in the Security Council on the basis of proposals from our security services. In concrete terms, we intend, firstly, to systematically decide on an international signal in the case of returnees, secondly, to do everything possible to bring about arrests and, thirdly, to enable an investigating judge to take decisions. We will do everything we can to ensure that the returnees are constantly monitored. That's a task for the Justice Department and for the police. The prisons are known to be delicate places in terms of possible radicalisation. We are working with the Minister of Justice, in consultation with the other Members of this House, to take additional initiatives for a strong, proactive strategy. That's not an easy exercise. Unfortunately, there is no zero risk, but we want to do everything we can, very voluntaristic, with the fellow Members concerned to achieve results and to protect our fellow citizens as best as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-26-54-plenair-ip154x.u20	Mr Prime Minister, it is indeed a very tight timing, but of course it is also much needed. I therefore assume that you are well aware of this, I think that all the legal means will be exhausted to get those people under lock and key, if that would be deemed necessary. That is not the end of our responsibility and our work. Indeed, Jaak Raes, the head of state security, says that there are still gaps, including within the prison system. Deradicalisation is also very slow and so on. Who should and who should not be included in these separate wings? I will repeat my question again shortly. Are our prisons ready to take those people in, too?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-26-54-plenair-ip154x.u21	Mr President, Prime Minister, our Committee of Inquiry on Terrorist Attacks heard, for the first time, a little more than eight days ago now, the victims of the 22 March attacks. I must tell you that all the colleagues were dismayed, were very shocked by the combatant's journey, the weakness, the modestity of the allowances, and finally all the harassment and the feeling of abandonment. This is the term used by the victims of the attacks. The chairman of the committee, Mr Dewael, took the initiative, on behalf of our committee, to send you a letter and to the presidents of the federated entities with urgent requests for these victims. In addition, our committee has taken up these serious observations of the victims in order to speed up a series of conclusions. The reason I am asking you today is that certain requests are addressed directly to you and deserve an immediate response. First, the victims ask to see you at last. That's my first question. Do you have a date? Will you be able to receive these victims very quickly because they would like to talk to you directly? The second thing is that these victims want to have a clear, clear status that gives them access to tax rights, social rights, mobility rights. You told us that you had made good progress in this area. What exactly is the situation? When will this decision be made for the victims? The third thing is that they want, like France, to have a quick, automatic, lump-sum allowance for all victims of terrorist attacks and that this can be done immediately. Here too, I would have liked your answer. Finally, it is very important because we are just a few weeks away from the commemorative date of these attacks, they want to see a national tribute in which all victims are associated and in which they are warned in time of their role and the tribute to them. I'd like to know what arrangements you're going to make.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-26-54-plenair-ip154x.u22	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to thank the chairman of the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry who, directly after the hearing you mentioned, addressed me. We had an exchange immediately. I have been able to share a number of information that I would like to share with you in plenary. First, Mr Dallemagne, as you can imagine, in recent months I have met, on several occasions, many victims tragically struck by this dramatic attack. I am well aware – we have measured it very quickly – that our country has been confronted with tragic, unprecedented events during the last decade. In my opinion, the various services wanted to do as well as possible. But there is, of course, a lot to be said. We need to learn from the lessons and see how we can collectively improve the situation of the victims. I observed with you that the points of inquiry of the victims were sometimes very different. Some issues fall under the federal government's responsibility, others relate to relationships with insurance companies, and others relate to relationships with federated entities. Before the hearing to which you referred, in December, I took the initiative, on behalf of the government, to send a long letter to each of the victims reminding them of a number of initiatives that have been taken, but above all to let them know the availability of the government and its willingness to listen in order to draw the consequences in serenity and to see how to improve situations. I would like to highlight some concrete elements. We immediately set up a one-stop shop. This counter processed 700 telephone calls and 1,500 e-mails. These were mainly approaches aimed at drawing attention to the difficulties encountered when requesting further information. Together with the Minister of Justice, we worked immediately to achieve an improved victim recognition status in this type of situation. Moreover, the Minister of Justice should quickly submit proposals on the subject to the Council of Ministers. We have also increased compensation ceilings from EUR 15 000 to EUR 30 000 for some, from EUR 62 000 to EUR 125 000 for others. As I speak to you, a total of EUR 1 million in compensation has been mobilised for several hundred cases. As I have committed myself to it, in the interests of listening, I will meet on 13 February next with delegations of the victims. Like everyone here, I understand that the emotion is enormous for those families that have been broken in a dramatic and totally unfair way. The government, with the support of Parliament, must draw the consequences, see what worked properly, what worked less well and ensure that we are better equipped tomorrow to take into account the atrocious difficulties faced by those who have been victims of this tragedy.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-26-54-plenair-ip154x.u23	Prime Minister, thank you. I'm not gonna argue with you. The subject is too serious. I just wanted to say that we felt a failure, a failure of the state to accompany those victims who wanted to be taken by hand. One-stop shopping has not really been one. The victims were still confronted with a Kafkai bureaucracy. So I really count on you to hear this message right away and that these people feel at last accompanied and supported by their grief and the hope they place in the state. It's extremely important.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-26-54-plenair-ip154x.u24	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, here we are again with the very difficult dossier at Zaventem airport. If you ask me, this is starting to look more like the BHV file. I did not come here to gloat in the division in the majority, Prime Minister. I remember a colleague of yours attacking the minister directly last week and asking him where the flight bill was. The Minister replied something that I and many with me have not really understood. Prime Minister, I have come here mostly to ask for clarity. There's a huge concern at the airport. I can even give you examples of companies losing contracts and investment projects that go wrong because of the uncertainty and uncertainty about the future of our airport. I can now also witness the mayors of Halle/Vilvoorde and the Flemish government who have started a conflict of interest. I hear the Prime Minister say there are 3,500 jobs in immediate danger. I hear other ministers saying that Brussels does not want an agreement. I read the coalition agreement and I agree with 200 % of the passage which states that we need a flight law very quickly that creates stability in terms of noise standards, job use and fair distribution. However, that law does not exist, with all the consequences. As far as the future of the airport itself is concerned, we were able to discuss last week in this House with the airport operators who are asking the same question as Voka, the local authorities and the citizens: create stability through a clear flight law. I read today that something went wrong in the Conciliation Committee yesterday. The competent Flemish minister says that steps were taken backwards instead of forwards. Prime Minister, what is the next step? What are you gonna do? I read you're pulling the file towards you. What is the next step in the Consultation Committee? Are you going to convince Brussels and Flanders to apply a noise standard? Where's the flying law?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-26-54-plenair-ip154x.u25	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the question is: how long will the Federal Government stand still on the issue of the Brussels overflight? This is a difficult case, as we know. It has been two and a half years since the people of Brussels waited for the federal government to assume its responsibilities and propose solutions to improve the lives of the populations overflying. Minister, in Brussels, the situation is deteriorating from week to week. The conflict of interest launched by Flanders shows that overflight routes must be negotiated. The three regions need an international airport, it's obvious. And the three Regions must shoulder the noise nuisances fairly. I would like to be clear here: the Brussels Region has no lessons to learn from Flanders in this respect. The Brussels people have for years assumed a far too large share of the noise pollution in view of the population density overhanging. That is why the Brussels Region is right to defend the interests of its people and to reject the current situation, where the most populated areas are continuously overflew. The conflict between Flanders and the Brussels Region will only be resolved when the federal government emerges from its immobilism. Your duty as Prime Minister is to stop doing the big back and finally propose fair solutions for all the actors on this issue. Today, it is the health of the people who are flying over the aircraft on a daily basis that is at stake. Is it correct, Prime Minister, that at the consultation committee, you asked the Brussels Region to extend the tolerance period, without proposing any compensation for the Brussels people? What are your proposals to reduce the overflight of Brussels and the most densely populated areas? Finally, when are you going to set up an independent noise control authority?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-26-54-plenair-ip154x.u26	Prime Minister, there was a meeting of the Consultative Committee yesterday. The Flemish government's conflict of interest against the Brussels government was on the agenda. After all, despite the efforts of the three Flemish parties in your majority to keep that freezer's door as close as possible, the Brussels people have removed the noise standards from the Community freezer. These are, of course, jobs, Prime Minister, or, as you always say, jobs, jobs. That's what it's really about. But the Brussels people say that they do not need jobs; they prefer to destroy Zaventem. I'm sure you will. If Mrs Fremault is allowed to do so, the number of fines will increase fivefold. In the meantime, some companies have already decided to leave Zaventem. This involves about 3,500 jobs. On the other hand, there's the crash law; excuse me, the flying law. In that context, it's not about jobs, jobs, jobs. That's what it's about waiting, waiting, waiting. Who are we waiting for? We're not waiting for Godot this time, we're waiting for Bellot. But I don't think Bellot will show up either, it'll be the same. Of course, it's very bad in this country. If we leave a matter federal, including the Flying Act, it won't work. If we regionalise a matter, including noise standards, it doesn't work either. If you refuse to admit that Belgium is a failed state, then you must explain to me what it really is. I have already heard from the majority of you that we have to freeze the Beliris money for EUR 125 million a year. Freezing, freezing, those are terms they like to hear. But that proposal is already in the freezer, because I haven't heard from it. I have just heard Mrs Lalieux's comments on the great sensitivity of the Brusselsers. Let us be very clear about this. If Flanders is to bear all the burdens of Zaventem effectively, if the number of flights above Brussels still has to be reduced, as Mrs Lalieux says, then Flanders is also entitled to all the pleasures associated with Zaventem. Zaventem must then be regionalised, then it must become a competence of the Regions. Then the door of that Community freezer should be open. Mr Prime Minister, I have three questions for you. What is on the agenda for the next meeting of the Consultative Committee? When will it take place, before or after 21 February? Will you or will you not intercede there as Prime Minister? I'm looking forward to your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-26-54-plenair-ip154x.u27	Mr Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I hear a lot here about the bickering in the Committee on Noise Standards, about a flying law, about tolerance margins, but the discussion is actually about much more. It's about the future of our national airport. It is about the future of the second economic pole in our country. It concerns an airport which contributes 2% of GDP and creates value added of EUR 3.2 billion per year. It concerns an airport that creates 60 000 direct and indirect jobs for employees who live in Flanders, Wallonia and, yes, also in Brussels. Does everyone realize that when fighting about noise standards? Do the governments have any idea what they're doing when they're shoving the blackbird to each other? Cargo planes are leaving Brussels today. Aircraft companies are looking for alternatives. Travellers are getting on more and more in Amsterdam and Paris today. Prime Minister, it's five to twelve. It's time to make choices. Do we want to support or hinder the growth plans of Brussels Airport? Do we want an international airport or a regional airport? Do we want extra jobs or job losses? It's very clear to my party. We must give our airport every opportunity to grow. Mr Prime Minister, when will the next meeting of the Consultative Committee take place, where the dossier can be unblocked? Will you bring the airport and the governments together to create an overall vision of the future in which everyone can agree? This alone will guarantee prosperity, economic growth, the jobs at the airport, Belgian aviation, the Brussels Rand and all of Belgium.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-26-54-plenair-ip154x.u28	Prime Minister, Ministers, Minister of Mobility, as has already been said, the issue of the flight of the Brussels Region was successively mismanaged for a very long time. You even reminded him, Mr Bellot, at the Infrastructure Committee on 15 June. This case has remained without a comprehensive and equitable solution for 15 years. It is essentially community-based. On the one hand, it opposes the Flemish Region, which wishes to maintain tolerance in exceeding noise standards, by all means, and the Brussels-Capital Region, which is heavily overflew, which aims to guarantee public health and the safety of its citizens. I can tell you nothing: yesterday morning, the federal ministers, the Prime Minister, the regional ministers met in a consultation committee to discuss, among other things, the problem of the overflight of the Brussels Region. I repeat Mrs Lalieux's words: "It did not go well, and worse still: Mr Prime Minister, you would have suggested to the Brussels Region to suspend the abolition of noise tolerances granted to airlines, and therefore to disregard the Gosuin decree and the judgments of the Council of State." I therefore assume, Prime Minister, that once again, according to your constant habit, you are putting Flanders' economic interests before the interests of Walloons, Brusselsers and the inhabitants of the immediate periphery. Since you took office nine months ago, Mr. Bellot, you have promised to bring together working groups including community-based associations. This promise has not yet been truly fulfilled. So what is your short- and medium-term view on this issue? Is a compromise envisaged? Will the noise generated by the national airport on the Brussels Region be reduced? Is the vliegwet, aimed at permanently freezing the air routes, still in your boxes? Is the extension of the ban on night flights from 10 p.m. to 7 a.m. still relevant? Finally, is the meeting of the working groups on this subject, promised upon your entry into office, still envisaged?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-26-54-plenair-ip154x.u29	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the various interventions are a demonstration of the complexity of this dossier. Through the sensitivities expressed, it is noted that this difficult, delicate and very important issue is at the heart of a twofold interest: on the one hand, interest in economic development, job creation, the importance of an airport for the capital of Europe and, on the other hand, very legitimate health concerns for residents in the three regions of the country which are potentially affected by the overflight around Brussels. I recall that in May, the Brussels Region decided to abolish the tolerance in the framework of the noise standards decree with effect from January 2017. I note that in December the Flemish Government decided to introduce a procedure in conflict of interest. This procedure opens a period of 60 days, during which the proposed measure is suspended. Ladies Lalieux and Caprasse, there was no question of extending a period of suspension of 60 days, it was asked whether, in view of the planned agendas of the concertation committee, we had to move that committee to have a meeting before the expiry of the 60-day period. Randomity led to the long-scheduled meeting of the Consultation Committee taking place 24 hours after the end of the sixty-day period. It's as simple as that! Also, I hope that we will not try to develop intentions that would not be correct on such a subject. That is a first important point. A second important point is that there is a political will to find solutions. I am also counting on the Flemish and Brussels Governments to put forward positive and constructive proposals. The federal government will certainly do everything in its power to play a constructive and mediation role. The noise standards are initially a difficulty between two regional governments: the Flemish Government on the one hand and the Brussels Government on the other. I respect each other's positions. And we will work with the minister concerned at the federal level to see how we can encourage convergence of views. You mentioned the important issue of independent authority. In order to establish such a structure, a cooperation agreement is necessary. There is therefore a need for a convergence of views among different Governments in order to succeed in establishing such a provision. Yes, it's a difficult case. Yes, it is a legacy of the past that is extremely heavy. It is not fair to say that nothing has been done by this government. As soon as I took office, measures were taken which had an impact on Brussels compared to the previous situation. We will continue, as far as possible, to make every effort to combine the various aspects: economic development, obsession to create jobs and willingness to take into account with common sense the legitimate concern of those whose health may be affected, in connection with this airport. That's the sense of action. There will be a meeting of the concertation committee before the 60-day deadline on 20 February, at which I hope that steps can be taken.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-26-54-plenair-ip154x.u30	As was recalled, this is a very old case that the MR inherited in October 2014. Before me, ministers from almost all the political groups here have tried to manage this issue, without success. Its complexity is beyond anyone's control. The complex institutional landscape leads to situations in which ministers from the same parties, but who are part of different governments, take decisions that consist of attacking each other. That is the reality. This situation has rarely occurred, but it is a reality which must be taken into account in the search for a solution. Beyond the political aspect, there is the legal aspect. In view of all the remedies that respond to local logic, if all of them were to succeed, the airport should close. It would no longer be possible to fly over Brussels or any area. I don't think any government in this country aspires to that. The airport is extremely important for our country. It is the second economic engine and 10 000 people earn their living there. Finally, the technical specificities of this subject further complicate the management of the file. Believing that the vliegwet, the standard on procedures will solve the noise problem, no. No, because noise is an exclusively regional competence since the laws on institutional reforms. It is therefore, in this extremely complex context, that, for the past nine months, I have started this long period of study and encounters. It is clear that the methods of the past have not led to a sustainable solution. That is why I want to take a different approach to this issue. I will therefore inaugurate a new phase in this matter through a new round of consultations, first within the federal government and then with the three Regions, on the basis of a first draft of answers to this thorny issue. The conflict of interest, which was discussed yesterday, once again proves that the federal level alone cannot find a solution to the complex problem. Everyone has to take responsibility. You will not have a single solution but a set of measures that will have to be coordinated so that residents can regain periods of calm without others losing their jobs. I thank the four Members for their questions, but I am counting on their four parties at the various levels to take responsibility for finding a balanced solution to this complex issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-26-54-plenair-ip154x.u31	Prime Minister, I sincerely hope that you are right when you say that there is a political will to reach a compromise. I hear your minister talking about governments attacking each other right after that. He also called on all parties to assume their responsibilities. Besides, he's gonna start a consultation in the federal government. Minister, you have been working for nine months, but the government has been working for a long time. The coalition agreement stipulates that we want to come to a flight law very quickly. Speed is needed today more than ever. There are alarm calls from the economic world, local politics and the Flemish government. Let me also be clear: I believe that the Flemish Government is right to invoke a conflict of interest. I believe that it is right to seek to avoid a threat of disaster because Brussels does not want to apply more flexible noise standards. I agree with my colleague when he says that this could lead to a real change in terms of jobs, jobs, jobs; but in a negative sense.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-26-54-plenair-ip154x.u32	Mr Minister of Mobility, I have never said that the Brussels people should not bear any nuisances. I've been talking about fair distribution. If blackmailing Beliris' money is the way of doing politics in certain parties of this majority, I find this attitude detestable. Caricature and arrogance are of no use to any region they come from. Everyone has to shoulder their responsibilities. The proof that the Brussels people are going through much more overflights today is that Flanders never challenges the air routes. It is therefore the Bruxellois who endure the greatest noise nuisances at the moment. I say this clearly: if we do not take into account the density of the populations overflying, it will be impossible to reach a compromise with the Brussels Region. Prime Minister, you have sent back the Brussels Region and Flanders. It is the federal government that is at the heart of this issue. If he does not take on his responsibilities by adopting new laws and negotiating, it will be an announced failure. In this case, no solution acceptable to all will be found.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-26-54-plenair-ip154x.u33	Prime Minister, Minister, thank you both for your reply. You have heard Mrs Lalieux, for whom the criterion must be population density. The Flemings will know what they're up to. You choose to consult and that is a good thing, but the conflict of interest ends on 21 February. Everyone remembers how the French speakers played in the BHV file with conflicts of interest from November 2007 to December 2011. For four years, they've blocked the case. What does the Flemish government do now? What do the Flemings do? They look like scared rabbits at a light box. This is how they look at the Brussels government, at the Brussels people. They do. Is there anything they can do? Yeah, they can, but apparently they need some help again, 'cause they don't know. That the Flemish government is calling for a second conflict of interest! Can she? Yes, it can, because it is a regional government and it is a Community government and those Regions and Communities have their own legal personality. This can therefore be done perfectly, contrary to what Mr Bourgeois and his government think. It can be perfect, but apparently they don't know. Are Veerle Wouters and I again the two putschists who like to play Community fire? Are we? No. The position I am now presenting here was defended by Senator Hugo Vandenberghe of CD&V in the Senate. In other words, let the Flemish Government wake up and show some courage, because I have the impression that this Community stand still has been passed over to the Flemish Parliament and the Flemish Government and that Mr Bourgeois is also suffering.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-26-54-plenair-ip154x.u34	Prime Minister, Minister, thank you for your answers. I read in the newspapers that some parties benefit from this conflict, because they can then oppose your party, Prime Minister. That's what I just heard from the PS. Well, that disgusts me. That's irresponsible behavior, that's a rotten strategy. Politics must offer solutions for the public interest, that is what people in the street are asking us, politicians. Mr Bonte, it is not true to say that a flying law will solve the problem of noise standards. A flight law will create a general legal framework to change routes, but will never solve the problems of the different regional noise standards. If we do not pay attention, ladies and gentlemen, we may not have to talk about noise standards and a flight law in two to three years' time, because then there will probably be no more aircraft landing in Zaventem. We must never let that happen, Prime Minister. I'm counting on your input on the Consultation Committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-26-54-plenair-ip154x.u35	Mr President, I have heard everything that was said today by Prime Minister Bellot and Minister Bellot. We always hear socio-economics on one side. And then, at that time, we have to accept everything. And, on the other hand, the overflight of Brussels with problems of noise pollution, health and safety. I still think there must be solutions, but I insist on security. When you regularly see planes flying over a densely populated city, it's scary. I would like to take this opportunity to insist, as I have already done in other interventions, on night flights, because there we are touching everyone. We touch people who are in the immediate vicinity of the airport, the whole Brussels area, the whole periphery. If we started by setting up a suitable night for all the inhabitants, it would be a good starting point for a good negotiation. I really insist on this aspect of things. If we are already moving forward in this area, I am confident that progress will be made later in other negotiations.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-26-54-plenair-ip154x.u36	Mr Minister, through Test-Achats, we learned that, in two months' time, over their complaints web site terapkapot.be, as many as 4,200 complaints were received about devices that did not reach the lifespan that the consumer expected. It is mainly about smartphones, tablets, printers, washing machines, coffee machines and so on. It is about electronic devices that we use every day and for which the consumer pays a reasonable amount of money. The consumer will then find that his device is broken, while he would have expected a longer service life. This is clearly detrimental to the consumer, but not only to the consumer. Devices that break down far too quickly are also detrimental to the reputation of the company. It is also damaging for our environment, because constantly producing new products requires raw materials. We all know that these will not come from the ground infinitely. That is what we must avoid. Of course, this problem does not only arise in Belgium. The same complaints also appear in our neighbouring countries. So it is not a national problem, it is a European problem. What do you think are the possibilities of tackling the problem? Is it possible, for example, as Test-Achats did, to set up a hotline at the FPS Economy, where the consumer can immediately contact with complaints? This way one can act faster and proactively. What contacts are currently taking place at European level to address this issue?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-26-54-plenair-ip154x.u37	Mr President, Mr Janssen, terapkapot.be has indeed received 4 200 notifications in two months' time. We have congratulated on the launch of the website, from the hotline, Test-Achats. Unfortunately, I would say, the website has been very successful. That will remain the case, given the 4 200 reports. We have a talk with Test-Achats next week to see what those 4 200 notifications are about, but we didn't wait for that hotline and those 4 200 notifications. In reply to another colleague's question, I have already explained that, firstly, we have taken the initiative to extend the guarantee scheme. We have now put forward a proposal and sent it to the High Council for the Self-employed and SMEs and to the Consumer Council for their opinion on the reform of the guarantee scheme. You know that the burden of proof lies with the manufacturer for the first six months. The consumer must simply say that the device is broken, within the guarantee scheme. Afterwards, the burden of proof will be reversed. I hope to receive the advice of both bodies at the end of February. Secondly, I asked for a study of the FPS Economy regarding the durability and artificial ageing of products. I hope to receive the results of that study in April. This gives me the opportunity, on the basis of the opinions and the study, to come to the Council of Ministers and Parliament to strengthen the guarantee scheme to protect the consumer. Another element is that it is also possible to adapt manufacturers to the expected lifetime of products. When buying a product, it must be clearly stated what the expected lifespan is. Finally, we have also established contacts at European level to obtain a uniform guarantee scheme and a response of industry to the manufacture of more sustainable products. Ladies and gentlemen, many actions have already been taken by both the majority and the opposition. However, the proof of the pudding will be there when we come to Parliament with a concrete proposal to tackle the problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-26-54-plenair-ip154x.u38	Minister, you asked for an opinion on the extension of the guarantee scheme. I would like to point out that the extension of the guarantee scheme will certainly not be beneficial. We shall see which draft you come to the committee with. You expect the results of the study on the durability and artificial ageing of products in April. This will have to be discussed in committee before the draft is voted on. The most important thing, of course, is for manufacturers to be responsive. It is only logical that the consumer knows how long the product he buys should normally go along, so that he is not disappointed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-26-54-plenair-ip154x.u39	Mr. President, Minister, my purpose is not to comment on all the actions of the new President of the United States. However, as you know, one of its first actions has been to abolish development cooperation assistance to developing countries that are seeking assistance in access to abortion. I have read your reaction, minister, relayed by The Washington Post. You supported the initiative of the Netherlands to set up a fund to make up for the decisions of the United States with regard to these programmes. These are important because it is not because access to abortion is no longer supported that it will no longer be practised. We are in favour of access to free, safe, guaranteed abortion under correct medical conditions and in this way I welcome your efforts. Do you confirm - but I know you will - Belgium's support for the Dutch initiative? It would also be important for you to remind us of your policy on strengthening the sexual and reproductive rights of women and girls, and of how we are working with the United Nations Population Fund to improve women's access to information on family planning, gender-based violence and genital mutilation. Moreover, Mr President, this afternoon we will have a resolution on this subject, of which I am one of the authors. Mr Minister, it would also be interesting for you to refer to the added value and funding mechanism of this new fund in relation to the instruments that we already have.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-26-54-plenair-ip154x.u40	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, there is indeed a new resident in the White House, as millions of women, often girls, know, who will have early pregnancies with all the consequences associated with them. Tomorrow millions of young girls will be forced to marry. Tomorrow, others will have to undergo abortions in very dangerous conditions that will often lead them to death. All these women and girls had access to family planning so far, could have abortions under secure conditions, which was very important. Family planning is a key element of our development policy, especially in countries where girls, women, often have seven to eight children. These women are very vulnerable, are dependent on men and often face violence. We could actually go up to the barricades to denounce these situations. But we can also decide to take action. This is the choice we have made with the Netherlands, and I am convinced that other countries will follow our example. Together with the NGOs and UN organizations that are particularly concerned, we are looking at what can be done to ensure that they can continue to work for all these girls and women. The working method is being developed. In any case, the objective is clear: to prevent organisations on the ground from suffering the consequences of the American decision. To be very clear, the policy of equality between men and women is a very important one. It is also important to support women's rights, sexual rights, etc. We will support this policy at the global level with the United States, if possible, and without the United States, if necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-26-54-plenair-ip154x.u41	Minister, thank you. I will add an observation, which many of us will share, I think. Equality between men and women is very important, many generations before mine fought for it. A great deal of progress has been made and it is a daily struggle to enforce them, for example in Africa. This may become a fight in other parts of the world as well. In Russia, for example, I mean that domestic violence will no longer be prosecuted. That will be one of the themes of the motion for a resolution that I will defend today. We must be vigilant, we must ensure that all acquired rights for women are preserved, including in our country.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-26-54-plenair-ip154x.u42	Colleagues, I have just been told that the Minister of Energy is blocked on the street of the Act. Since she is the last minister to answer our questions, I can only suspend the sitting.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-26-54-plenair-ip154x.u43	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-26-54-plenair-ip154x.u44	Mr Penris, I will address the Minister. There are, of course, cases of force and so I find it difficult to suspend the sitting other than that.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-26-54-plenair-ip154x.u45	Mr President, can we simply start discussing the texts and then return to the questions? Can everyone agree to that?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-26-54-plenair-ip154x.u46	Mr President, I think it is a very constructive proposal from Mrs Temmerman.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-26-54-plenair-ip154x.u47	The problem has been solved by now.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-26-54-plenair-ip154x.u48	I would ask you, however, to speak to the Minister. It is not the first time we have to wait here for Mrs Marghem; it is the umpteenth time we have to wait here for Mrs Marghem. I think Mrs Marghem should read the Belgian Constitution. Then perhaps she would have a little bit more respect for the people's representatives.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-26-54-plenair-ip154x.u49	Madam Minister, you were expected!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-26-54-plenair-ip154x.u50	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we used to get a free ticket from the Brussels tram company. I do not know if that is the case now, but perhaps you could have been on time, unless there are major incidents that you cannot remedy, but are due to the tram company. Madam Secretary, I have some questions for you. Firstly, you announced at the beginning of this week that you want to launch a national debate on the introduction of a new CO2 tax in order to reduce CO2 emissions in federal Belgium. I'm translating that intention into ordinary human language. Jack, watch your chickens. Taxpayer, hold your pockets. After all, a new tax will be introduced, which could cost you and I, together, between 8 % and 12 % extra, depending on the situation in which you or I are a user of energy. To warm up a house, it could be about an additional price of up to 12.5 %. For a person who wants to participate in the manufacturing industry or who wants to work as a transporter, this would be between 8 % and 10 % additional costs. Madam Secretary, everyone is free to think what he or she wants. Those Thoughtful sind frei. I think I will. You may, too. However, as a minister and important minister, you don't just do that. At that time, you must think about what was co-created by your government and by your government partners. That is why I have the following questions for you. To what extent are your ideas, such as the idea of introducing a new tax, which will cost us all a great deal, supported by your coalition partners? I remember very well that Minister Kris Peeters, who had to leave us now, stated in a previous life that a CO2 tax would never come because that tax would destroy the manufacturing industry in our country. Yesterday I followed the debate in the Flemish Parliament with half an ear. I understand that your former colleague and ideology colleague Bart Tommelein was not very much in favour of the ideas you are launching. I also understand that the N-VA is messing around in the margins and does not want to go along with that idea. Madam Minister, my next question to you is therefore very short and powerful. Was this idea of yours, namely the introduction of a new tax, whether or not it was supported by your government and by your coalition partners?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-26-54-plenair-ip154x.u51	Madam Minister, Mr Penris has just made an allusion to yesterday's debate in the Flemish Parliament. This was simultaneous with the presentation by the Minister of her approach to decarbonising our economy and her vision of the future at a conference. Mr Penris, note that this also fits in with the whole climate plan and the climate resolution that was also adopted at Flemish level and supported by all parties. In it we ask to investigate how we can achieve a shift of taxes towards polluting products such as CO2. My fellow party member Bart Tommelein is of course right about 200 % and the minister will certainly not contradict him when he says that we do not want a higher invoice due to the CO2 tax. You may share that, too. Our concern is of course the same and you will undoubtedly find few opponents of the principle of a tax on polluting products such as CO2. However, we must be careful that the tax on top of the entire energy bill, which has risen sharply in recent years, comes. Then we say clearly: no. We need to get to a lower bill. For many families this is a basic product, which has become very expensive. We cannot afford a CO2 tax to increase the energy bill again. We will oppose this and my party colleague Bart Tommelein will oppose it. If we want to implement this correctly, the first question to the Minister today is how we avoid the negative effects. The shift must not be an elevator. In other words, what will we reduce to compensate for the CO2 tax and ensure that energy does not become more expensive for families and businesses? Secondly, how much time will we give families and businesses? If we introduce today's tax tomorrow, consumers will obviously not be able to adapt. The CO2 tax shouldn't amount to anything. However, we do want people to stop polluting. The tax should not therefore be used to finance the state treasury; the proceeds should be used to lead people to new techniques. Madam Secretary, how will you ensure that the tax shift does not become a tax lift?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-26-54-plenair-ip154x.u52	Madam Minister, yesterday you rightly launched a debate on the possible introduction of a carbon tax in sectors such as transport and construction to stimulate the behaviour of people, families and businesses, in order to reduce CO2 emissions. That debate must indeed be held. Mr Lachaert, yesterday afternoon a number of conditions were indeed set out immediately in order to be able to conduct the debate on a carbon tax. Firstly, it should be done in a European context. After all, Belgium is a small country, which depends enormously on what is happening around us in an open economy. Secondly, the debate must be about a total reform of taxation with a shift and not an increase in the burden. We fully agree with that. Thirdly, the debate must result in a third green tax shift. We can indeed use a new tax shift, with green accents and incentives for green investment. In fact, I have already launched the call a few times. I would add one more condition. Social corrections must and will also be taken into account in this debate. Mr Lachaert, the proceeds that must be extracted from such a carbon tax should be pumped back fully into the economy, businesses and families. Indeed, it is not intended to be earned, but to invest the proceeds in the economy and families in order to achieve a greener economy and taxation. Under these conditions, we agree to hold that debate. I am immediately linking to this a new reduction in charges, with a number of shifts towards polluting consumption, emissions and products. Madam Secretary, what is your personal view of the debate that you wish to initiate and conduct? What is your view on a possible carbon tax? Within what time frame do you intend to feed that? How do you see that in the European context and context of the regions, which are also competent in this area? In short, how do you see the introduction in a global, intra-Belgian context? Finally, did you record that with Minister Van Overtveldt? Will you agree with Minister Van Overtveldt on a green-colored tax reform?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-26-54-plenair-ip154x.u53	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the various statements make it clear that everyone is in favour of reducing CO2 emissions. The question is, how do we achieve this reduction? One of your proposals is a tax on CO2 emissions. Of course, that's just one of the possibilities. I think you should explore other possibilities, Madam Secretary. Let us stick to the one proposal, because you started the debate on it yesterday. We are all in favour of reducing CO2 emissions. We have signed the Paris Agreement. The resolution was also adopted in the Flemish Parliament, which was signed by almost all parties. So I think we should go for it. Madam Minister, I would like to put a few things to you. First of all, you need to look at the alternatives. After all, reducing CO2 emissions is best achieved by reducing emissions to zero and using alternatives in both heating, transport and production. In other words, you must emphasise those alternatives. My first question is, therefore, what plans do you have and how will you promote the use of the alternatives? Secondly, as has been mentioned here, a social correction is needed, but we really want to go beyond a social correction. Those who live in an apartment building and have no alternatives, such as natural gas heating, should not be charged most of the CO2 tax. Mrs Smaers and Mr Lachaert, we will therefore need more than a social correction. The consumers of my example must be able to offer alternatives. Finally, Madam Minister, you are not really consistent in this government. If the government really wants to reduce CO2 emissions, then the alternative to public transport must also be promoted much more. However, investment in public transport is now subject to savings. Anyone who will not be able to afford an electric car in the future, but who will not have the possibility of public transport, because your government has saved on it, will be charged a CO2 tax. We can't do that. Madam Secretary, how will you consult with your fellow Members from the Regions? How will you ensure that consumers who do not have alternatives will not have to pay most of the CO2 tax? How will you convince your fellow Members and the government to focus on the alternatives?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-26-54-plenair-ip154x.u54	Mr President, Madam Minister, as my colleagues said yesterday, on a study afternoon organised at the initiative of the government, you launched the national debate on carbon prices. Indeed, it is time to start these discussions as Belgium has to make its energy transition to a low-carbon future, as decided with the Paris agreement in 2015. You announced that the debate should take place over a year and address the method of setting the price of carbon emissions in non-ETS markets, thus not covered by the European emissions trading system. As you know, it is mainly about transportation and buildings. Results are expected at the end of the year. So, Madam Minister, you have eleven months in front of you to get there. Minister, I was a little surprised, I wanted to ask you this: during this year are you going to work together with the Minister of Finance on this issue? Why Mr. Don't Van Overtveldt and SPF Finance work with you to organize this project? Is this a government project or your personal project? Could you certify that this carbon tax will not be used to fill the budget gap caused by the tax shift, but to develop, as is the objective, projects for the energy transition? Who will be consulted during the year of work? How do you intend to proceed at the methodological level to involve all components of society? I would like to return to a particular remark about changes in attitude, particularly with regard to the social action that we must take towards the disadvantaged.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-26-54-plenair-ip154x.u55	Mr President, Madam Minister, yesterday the press shared your comments at a conference that you initiated and which marks the launch of a reflection on the price of carbon in our country. In this way, you are implementing an initiative that you announced in November 2016 at COP22 in Marrakech. This is in the context of the Paris Agreement, which our Assembly ratified last month. This ambitious agreement is necessary in the face of climate challenges, as we need to reduce our greenhouse gas emissions by 80 to 95 per cent by 2050 from 1990 levels. Today, the European CO2 emissions trading scheme covers 40% of emissions in Belgium. European industry and airlines are to a large extent targeted. The stakes are therefore around the remaining 60%, i.e. transport, buildings and agriculture. I would like to point out that the European Commissioner for Energy and the Director Environment of the OECD welcomed your approach. We will therefore have a complex debate throughout this year, in which the principle of budgetary neutrality will also have to be respected. In addition to the environmental objective, the potential impact on our economy will have to be taken into account, taking into account the competitiveness of our businesses, which it is important to preserve, the impact on households, including low-income households, and on our energy security. Therefore, Madam Minister, are you planning a consultation with the potentially targeted business lines? Do you confirm your willingness to be attentive to the impact that certain recommendations could have on households, industry and our energy security?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-26-54-plenair-ip154x.u56	Mr President, Madam Minister, this extremely important debate is finally open! For more than two years now, you have been taking up your duties and finally tackling climate-related problems. However, it is a conference and it is clear that within government the problem is not really shared. You can't go any further, at this point, than to gather people and listen to what they have to say. Everywhere on the planet, things are moving forward. Other countries have already taken concrete steps, while we continue to reflect. Let us nevertheless welcome the fact that yesterday was the starting point of a year of reflection adapted to Belgium and on an extremely important issue. I want to give you a break about two dimensions of the problem and ask you the same question. First, as a minister who is a member of a government that is also thinking about a shift tax, will you introduce that dimension at the right time, that is, when this debate arrives on the government table? This debate is the debate of the tax shift itself. After that, I can already tell you, it'll be too late, anyway. If you do not do so in this context, when we know that this is the last great reform imagined, you will already be out of time. I come to the second measure. Colleagues here in the gallery have focused heavily on the issue of CO2 tax, yes or no, and how. In Belgium's plan to achieve climate targets and reduce its CO2 emissions, a whole range of other measures must be devised. I would like you in this forum to also mention measures in the field of mobility or energy efficiency, in short all the other measures other than the CO2 tax that must be part of an overall plan to reduce our CO2 emissions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-26-54-plenair-ip154x.u57	Ladies and gentlemen, first of all I thank you for waiting for me for a minute and I apologize for this slight delay. On the other hand, I thank you for participating in this debate, which begins and for raising all the questions you have asked. They are obviously central and very interesting. I have a maximum of fourteen minutes to try to answer. I'll try to be as complete as possible. This debate begins with the Vice-President of the European Commission, Maros Sefcovic, and in the presence of experts in this field, as well as with the Directorate-General of my Environment Administration and the Directorate-General of my Energy Administration. This debate was held with 200 people representing all the stakeholders and administrations, including regional ones, from Flanders, Brussels and Wallonia. We have launched a great reflection on valuing. This means answering the question: what would be the cost of CO2 emissions that come mainly from residential housing, transportation and agriculture? According to the press – this is the only clarification I want to make – it would certainly be a tax. That's not the point! First of all, we need to think about the cost and value of CO2 emissions, because we know that if we do not have initiatives, achieving our objectives would cost five times as much within the required time frame. Studies show that climate change, if not severely contained now, will become uncontrollable. Then this debate will take place over a year. Under the leadership of my two administrations, working groups will be formed, discussions will take place, including more public debates – why not in parliament? – in order to fuel reflection and try to see how to answer this question. At the end of this debate, there will be nothing more than guidelines that will allow me to talk to my colleagues, including the Minister of Finance, about what we need to do in our country. In this regard, I saw my counterpart Bart Tommelein this morning. He spoke in the press about this and repeated it to me again – we are on the same page –: for us, there is a question of tending towards budgetary neutrality and resorting to a shift. An article by L'Echo related that a Dutch think tank, Ex'tax, has been thinking about an environmental shift tax for the whole of Europe, which could have positive economic consequences – particularly in terms of GDP for each of the European countries. Many measures could therefore be taken. I will of course not be able to discuss this with you today. Awareness-raising campaigns are already under way. Similarly, policies to achieve this goal are already being pursued, but they remain fragmented and inadequate. There is a need to evaluate and work together to find all the means that we could put at the service of this purpose and that could raise society's awareness through public debate. The finance minister, Johan Van Overtveldt, is obviously quite aware of this situation and, for the moment, is waiting to see what will come out of this work. He's not going to say anything at once. All members of the government, it seems to me, are interested, in their different and complementary competences to this great reflection, as I had imagined they were for an even more comprehensive objective which concerns the sustainable development objectives, for which I wrote to each of my colleagues, since I am responsible for implementing them on the Belgian ground. For me, it's the same problem. It's the same commitment. It's the same thought. And I really hope, at the end of this year, thanks in particular to your interventions, in the run-up to our parliamentary committee meetings, that we can find together the guidelines for what will be the Belgian policy to combat CO2 not covered by the ETS market, so that we can internalise this cost in our economy. Since we will know what it will cost, I believe we will be much better able to encourage not only ourselves but our fellow citizens to adopt other behaviours, to choose alternative modes of habitat, other modes of transport, other ways of cultivating, which is in the right direction. This, of course, in close cooperation with my regional colleagues. I would add, Mr President, and I will conclude by saying that, on Monday, I had the Energy Ministers' meeting for work on the Energy Pact, which for me is also linked to all this reflection. In fact, energy obviously produces emissions that we have to fight against and energy efficiency is a regional matter. I already know that Mr. Furlan's successor is Mr. Christophe Lacroix. I've already sent him the invitation. If his agenda is not free on Monday, we will find another date, but know that we first had our meeting with Mr Tommelein today, on the one hand, and that on the other hand, we are continuing work with all the Energy Ministers, as soon as possible, as soon as Mr Lacroix has been able to free up his agenda and enter the run-off of our work. Since he's new, we'll have to let him know, which we'll be happy to do.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-26-54-plenair-ip154x.u58	Madam Secretary, you were indeed a minute late. You may be just as Republican as I am. So you may be late once in a while. On the substance of the matter, I can say the following. I understand this is not a government decision. You simply want to launch a social debate and that remains your right. I will say in advance what the basic lines of my group will be in this debate. Anything you want to introduce that benefits our environment must stick to a number of guidelines. It must not cost the producers of our manufacturing industry any more. It should not cost the consumers who are already struggling to heat their homes today. And it should not cost our transporters anymore, because you know that we are a very important transport region. For the rest, I'd like to follow you for a big piece. There is one thing I want to make clear, Mr President. I hope that this debate will not be a non-debate because to put it in the language of Bart De Wever who would probably quote Cicero from the Catilinaric speeches: 'Dum tacet clomat'. The silence of this group was deafening today.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-26-54-plenair-ip154x.u59	Madam Secretary, thank you for your answer. I believe that you first launched this yesterday at a colloquium. This trend is also taking place in Europe and is even living very strongly in France. I have felt that all the groups agree with an examination of this principle, but the points of attention are the same. This should not lead to an increase in the energy bill. This also means that this discussion must be taken into account in the Energy Pact and the debate on the energy standard. What's in our energy bill? We urgently need to analyse this to see what costs can be derived from it in order to keep the costs of the basic product energy manageable for families and businesses. Insofar as you ensure that there is no problem, this is a debate that we would like to have with you and your regional fellow Members. You have been in contact with your regional colleague, Bart Tommelein, to work this out together. A second part of my appeal is to deal with this together with the regions. On the Walloon side, you may have to exercise some patience on account of some other dossiers, but I hope that this will be clarified quickly so that you and the regions can have a good debate on the energy costs in our country. You must strive for solutions that neither businesses nor families incur any additional costs. I would like to support Mrs Temmerman in this matter and call for particular attention to be paid to those who are already struggling today. I am thinking, for example, of someone who lives in an apartment building and who cannot easily switch to a low carbon technology. How are we going to ensure that the proceeds actually return to those people, so that they do not lose anything? If you do that, you have our support.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-26-54-plenair-ip154x.u60	Mr President, Minister, thank you for initiating the debate, as has just been said. It is a debate that is noble and necessary, in function of our climate objectives. As my fellow Members and myself said earlier, there are conditions attached to this debate, such as not increasing the burden, but shifting the burden and taking into account a number of social corrections that can and must be done. But if that debate can take place in confidence and under these conditions, then we must conduct it and look at what measures can follow from it. Studies show that greening the economy and taxation can lead to more jobs, especially in our economy. That's what this government is about, making more jobs, making our economy more competitive and innovative. We must effectively pursue this debate and we must use it to become more innovative and competitive and to achieve more jobs.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-26-54-plenair-ip154x.u61	Mr President, Minister, you have remained rather vague in your reply to our questions. We can get into that, we are at the beginning of the debate. However, we had hoped that you, you have been a minister for a long time, could be a little more specific. I have two further comments which do give me a bit of a fright. You say that you will sit with your colleague Johan Van Overtveldt and that you will make this budget neutral. We all know what budget neutrality means. We have the tax shift, which is still not funded and which will cost us six billion at the end of the journey. Besides, a tax shift with this government is usually a tax lift. So this doesn't immediately inspire my confidence. I hope that you will take up the concerns expressed here by almost all the speakers about the correction and the alternatives. You have not responded to these alternatives at all, Madam Minister. I think that, if you really mean it with the reduction of CO2 emissions, we should all be putting all this on the table, then you should be focusing on those alternatives. I still wonder how you are going to convince your fellow Members to use these alternatives, especially on public transport, to finally invest instead of disinvesting.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-26-54-plenair-ip154x.u62	Minister, I've heard a lot of your answers, but I'm coming back with a lot more questions than when I went to the gallery. I expect the group to be able to propose a number of solutions during this reflection, but above all you can commit yourself to implementing these solutions. These will come either from technicians or from civil society, and I think this is an important step. I would also have preferred you to say that this was a government-wide project. We are talking about the price of carbon, but also a lot of carbon tax. I have the worst fears about the risk of federal tax shift, tax shift otherwise, not yet funded, where this slip could happen.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-26-54-plenair-ip154x.u63	Minister, thank you for your answers. Indeed, if there is a challenge that we will have to face very quickly, it is the challenge of climate change. There's no alternative. What is important is that you will give yourself time for reflection, for consultation. Certainly, this will help to avoid mistakes that have been made in the past. I am thinking in particular of the cracking in Wallonia with photovoltaics. In any case, minister, we are extremely confident about your approach and we support you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-26-54-plenair-ip154x.u64	Madam Minister, you had fourteen minutes to speak in this gallery, and you did not say a word about photovoltaics in Wallonia. Frankly, I'm disappointed. Fortunately, Mr Friart was there to restore balance, because that was missing from our debates. You have given up six minutes of your speaking time, you could have seized this pole strained by Mr Friart and you have not done so; it is regrettable from a political point of view. More seriously, on the issue of CO2, I fear that we are already very late in the legislature. You have just announced the opening of a debate from which, based on the conclusions, you will begin to talk about things within the government and, above all, with your colleague in Finance. Everything will already be finished at the tax shift level when you arrive with proposals. We will be late 2017 when the round tables and discussions are over. And in 2018, the elections will be about to be held. So I'm afraid nothing can be done. However, I will give you a USB stick in which have been recorded various measures relating to organized obsolescence. This should help you to develop measures to reduce CO2 emissions in Belgium. I would ask you to hand it over to your collaborator.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-26-54-plenair-ip154x.u65	End of oral questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-26-54-plenair-ip154x.u66	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 25 January 2017, I propose that the agenda start with the draft law amending the Law of 17 June 2013 on the grounds, information and remedies for public contracts and certain works, supply and service contracts, Nos 2168/1 to 3. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 25 January 2017, I propose that you begin the agenda with the bill amending the Act of 17 June 2013 on the motivation, information and remedies for public procurement and certain works, supply and service contracts, Nos. 2168/1 to 3. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-26-54-plenair-ip154x.u67	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteurs are Mr Van Biesen and Mr Van de Velde. They refer to the written report. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-26-54-plenair-ip154x.u68	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2168/3) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2168/3) The draft law has 63 articles. The bill has 63 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-26-54-plenair-ip154x.u69	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-26-54-plenair-ip154x.u70	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Kattrin Jadin, Olivier Chastel, Sybille de Coster-Bauchau, Françoise Schepmans, Nele Lijnen, Jean-Jacques Flahaux, An Capoen, Els Van Hoof.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-26-54-plenair-ip154x.u71	The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1725/8) The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1725/8) The title was amended by the Commission in its draft resolution calling for the prevention and combating of violence against women to be encouraged, in particular by the ratification and universalisation of the Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention and Combating of Violence against Women and Domestic Violence, done at Istanbul on 11 May 2011.' The title was amended by the Committee on the Proposal for a Resolution to promote the prevention and combating of violence against women, in particular through the ratification and universalisation of the Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention and Combating of Violence against Women and Domestic Violence, held in Istanbul on 11 May 2011. The meeting's open. The discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-26-54-plenair-ip154x.u72	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that those of you who have contributed to the debate and to the unanimous vote in favour of the excellent motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Jadin will be keen to put forward their views. It is therefore logical that they should be able to express themselves fully, and I think it would be preferable to refer to my written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-26-54-plenair-ip154x.u73	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as I announced earlier in the oral questions, it is a good surprise that we can vote on resolutions unanimously, which we can agree on fundamental principles. And the debates we have held in the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the resolution proposed to you this afternoon are evidence of this. The fight against domestic violence is not the prerogative of a single political group. The proof is that we have been able to vote unanimously on this resolution, which I welcome. Nor is it the monopoly of a community of women who would defend one of them. Every citizen, every political official or associative must be sensitive to this evil which gnaws all societies, whether developed or not, rich or poor. Domestic violence has no economic, social, geographical, cultural or religious boundaries. It strikes women without discernment who believe they can find, within a couple, a family or a home, the mildness of life, the tranquillity of feelings and love of a spouse, or who, as a result of a separation, are harassed by their former spouse. According to World Health Organization estimates, 35 per cent of women, or nearly one in three women, report being exposed to physical and sexual violence by their intimate partners or someone else in their lifetimes. On average, 30 per cent of women who have had relationships report physical and sexual violence from their partners. Globally, up to 38 per cent of women's murders are the result of intimate relationships with their male partners. Faced with this reality, the Council of Europe drafted the Istanbul Convention, which was adopted, I recall, on 7 April 2011, and which Belgium deposited the act of ratification in the spring of 2016. Mr President, I would like to remind you in a few words of the importance of this Convention and therefore the meaning of the resolution that we are going to adopt today. Violence against women is defined in article 3 of the Convention as "any violence against a woman because she is a woman or disproportionately affecting women"; but also through other articles: physical or psychological violence, including harassment, sexual violence including sexual assault, rape and harassment, forced marriage, female genital mutilation, abortion or forced sterilization, so-called honour crimes, usually committed against female members of a family or community and considered to have violated common rules, including sexual behaviour. Domestic violence refers to violence occurring within the family or in the home between former or present spouses or partners. I would like to make it clear, Mr President, that the Istanbul Convention also takes into account domestic violence against men. Several texts had already been adopted within the framework of the United Nations, including the 1979 Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women, or the 1993 Declaration on the Elimination of Violence against Women, but without binding scope. At the regional level, however, there are several binding texts, such as the Protocol to the African Charter on Human and Peoples' Rights on the Rights of Women in Africa. What makes the Istanbul Convention unique is its potentially universal scope. It is known that it is open to the United States, Canada, Mexico, Japan and the Vatican, which have participated in its drafting, but any other State may accede to it with the agreement of the parties. We know, as I said earlier, that other countries are preparing to legalize domestic violence. That must be particularly important to us. I think this will reinforce the act taken this afternoon. We must promote this text in other countries: our neighbours to the European Union, our partners in development cooperation, the States we are associated with in the Geneva Human Rights Council or in diplomatic contacts for an election to the Security Council. Indeed, the value of the Istanbul Convention is great. First, it deals with violence against women and domestic violence in all its dimensions. Secondly, it details several types of responses: prevention, by combating retrograde attitudes that promote tolerance or denial of such practices; protection of and assistance to victims; and combating impunity - the latter being a second violence against victims. Thirdly, the Convention also emphasizes the need for regular data collection and support for research in order to better assess the extent, forms and evolution of violence. Ladies and gentlemen, these are reasons why I believe that the universality of this Convention represents a laudable, necessary and noble objective for our diplomacy. Violence against women takes a wide range of forms. In some countries, they are tolerated and even excused in the name of cultural or religious values. The universality of the Istanbul Convention will enable us to raise our level of ambition in order to combat any manifestation of this violence. I am confident that our Prime Minister and our Minister of Foreign Affairs will take advantage of their bilateral exchanges to promote this Convention to those states that are not yet part of it. That is the heart and spirit of this resolution. A unanimous vote will certainly give him all his political weight. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-26-54-plenair-ip154x.u74	Mr President, I will be very brief, because the majority has already been said by Mr Jadin. The N-VA Group wishes to emphasise that violence against women is a violation of human rights. The defence of human rights is one of the priorities of our diplomacy. The defence of women's rights and the fight against gender-based violence is therefore a fundamental part of this. Our country has a leading role in the fight against gender-based violence. One of the best examples of this is the National Action Plan of State Secretary Sleurs. Now that Belgium is also a member of the UN Human Rights Council, we must spread this message as strongly as possible. With the present proposal for a resolution, we want to encourage the global fight against gender-based violence. We urge the government to call on the countries of the Council of Europe to ratify the Convention in such a way that the Istanbul Convention becomes a universal instrument in the fight against violence, because any impunity of violence against women is unacceptable, regardless of whether it is committed by the State, citizens or non-state actors, both inside and outside the family and marriage.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-26-54-plenair-ip154x.u75	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the Istanbul Convention is presented as the most comprehensive and advanced set of international standards in the fight against violence against women and domestic violence. It is the first legally binding instrument at European level, covering various areas including prevention, protection and support, substantive law, procedural law, immigration, and international cooperation. It was ratified by our assembly last November. On that occasion, we welcomed this important step forward. The promotion of ratification and universalization can therefore only be supported. I am therefore convinced of the importance, as Mrs Jadin has just mentioned, of the second request of this text, which envisages taking the diplomatic measures necessary to promote this Convention to States that are not members of the Council of Europe and to make it a universal instrument. My group has been and will continue to be at the initiative of various texts on the importance of the gender dimension, women's rights and sexual and reproductive rights. These rights know no borders. I am thinking of the texts adopted by this House on sexual and reproductive rights or on the fight against early and forced marriage. However, and we talked about it earlier, the news sadly reminds us that nothing is ever acquired, when we see, for example, that one of the first acts of Donald Trump, newly invested president of the world's first power, was to violently attack abortion. Unfortunately, I fear that this is just the beginning. It will be up to Belgian diplomacy to remain inflexible in this regard and to combat the disastrous repercussions such medieval and conservative positions may have on women's rights and on access to sexual and reproductive health and rights in Europe and around the world. I would like to welcome Minister De Croo's commitment, once it is not customary, to fight against this retrograde vision of the US President. At Belgian level, as we have already had the opportunity to say, progress is obviously still to be made both in the fight against violence against women and in the fight against discrimination. As we know, both are strongly linked. We continue to question Mrs Sleurs regularly on these essential issues, considering that the government unfortunately lacks a great deal of ambition in this area and that concrete actions are still waiting despite the commitments. Fortunately, despite this, our country is not a bad student in the fight against violence against women. It is clear that we have a role to play on the international stage to improve, through bilateral and multilateral contacts, the situation and legislation of States where efforts in this area can and must be made. This proposal therefore seems to be in the right direction and we will therefore support it.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-26-54-plenair-ip154x.u76	Mr President, Minister, Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased that this resolution is being carried so widely across all parties. It is proof that violence against women is a challenge taken seriously by many, a sign that, at least in this country, the search for a non-violent and just society has not been overtaken. I therefore hope that the recommendations contained in this resolution can be the starting point for effectively stopping violence against women. Of course, I also hope that sufficient financial and logistical resources will always be made available to assist victims and, in particular, children psychologically. The prevention of violence must be the central objective, but once evil has been done, we must also give the victims proper support and respect. Ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that the problem of gender-based violence does not stop at our borders. The right to a life without violating the most basic human rights is a universal goal for all people around the world. That is why we fully support this resolution. In our international policy, too, attention must be paid to the fight against violence against women. Whether the crimes are committed under the pretext of cultural traditions or organised crime does not play any role for us. Any short-sighted political or economic interests must not prevent us from acting decisively. We discussed this a few times during Question Time in this plenary session, and everyone praises the leading role played by Minister De Croo in helping the NGOs working in the South to promote sexual and reproductive health and rights together with his Dutch colleague in Development Cooperation. Colleagues, the new American President Trump has just put most of these well-functioning NGOs on dry seed. We have to do it! Of liever: don't do it! The right to information and access to birth planning for millions of women worldwide must be guaranteed. The Minister's decision therefore fits perfectly with the recommendation of this resolution. That part will be followed up well, even before the resolution is adopted. Our party will therefore support this resolution in concert and we will keep an eye on the follow-up.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-26-54-plenair-ip154x.u77	Mr President, very briefly. Violence against women is not yet dealt with in many countries, so there is still much work to be done, as mentioned by my fellow Members. I am thinking, for example, of impunity, the lack of reaction and coordination of competent services, no means of protecting victims, the undervalue of certain forms of violence such as genital mutilation, compulsory abortion or sterilization. It is therefore a good thing that the Istanbul Convention was approved and ratified by the Council of Europe by Belgium. It is necessary to promote this instrument, including globally. Just think about what happened recently in the Turkish Parliament, where rape of girls is possible if one marries them afterwards. Or think, very recently, of the blabbermouth law in Russia, where one states that giving chatter in one's own family remains possible and that one can get a small fine for it. This instrument must therefore be promoted better. By the way, in Turkey the Treaty of Istanbul was accepted, not yet in Russia. The question is how this treaty will be applied better. The proof of the pudding is in the eating . The Treaty of Istanbul must become forceful. The instruments for this were developed through the GREVIO, which can set up research committees. Parliament must be vigilant in ensuring that these committees of inquiry are set up and that recommendations are made to governments that violate the Treaty. Parliament therefore has a very important role to play. After all, it has been identified as a stakeholder within the instrument of the Istanbul Convention, to play a role. Parliament must also take up this role, especially since Belgium is a pioneer. The year 2017 has also been declared by the European Union as the year in which the fight against violence must be undertaken. We also have a seat on the UN Human Rights Council, which will enable our country to play a leading role in the protection of women from violence. We have also worked out a good national action plan against violence. There is also the fact that women's and children's rights have been clearly highlighted as a priority in development cooperation. We must also play this leading role at global level. We must ensure that other countries support the Istanbul Convention. We hope, of course, that once it has been signed, it will become a forceful instrument, including checks. We also hope that countries such as Turkey, Russia and the United States will be attacked if they fail to comply with this binding instrument. That is where I see a strong role for our Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-26-54-plenair-ip154x.u78	Mr President, Ministers, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the news shows us every day, women's rights are still in danger, on this Friday millions of women around the world to protest for their rights. As Simone de Beauvoir said, "Never forget that a political, economic and religious crisis will suffice for women's rights to be called into question. These rights are never acquired. You will have to stay vigilant for the rest of your life." It is precisely this vigilance that led us, on 3 December 2015, to vote unanimously on the draft law approving the Istanbul Convention, an agreement demonstrating to women victims of violence, whether in Belgium or around the world, that we are not abandoning them. These include domestic and extra-family violence, honour killings, sexual slavery, forced genital mutilation and sterilization, and forced heterosexuality. They are violence that spares no social environment, no culture, no generation and that strikes women in the private sphere as well as in the public sphere, in their families and in the community. It is an evil of humanity with a great "H" that must be eradicated and for which we must shoulder our responsibilities. We can no longer accept that even today, one in three women in the world is beaten, mutilated, sexually abused or abused in the course of their lives. We can no longer accept that violence against women remains the leading cause of death among women between the ages of 14 and 44. We can no longer accept that in Belgium, only one in ten women victims of rape dare to file a complaint. Today, we must put this Convention into practice in our internal and external policy. Indeed, we must ensure that the sectors working with women victims of violence, including police, judicial and social workers, are always better trained. We must also call on the other States of the Council of Europe to follow the path of ratification of the Istanbul Convention, and even have the ambition to establish this text as an instrument whose legal scope will be universal. Ladies and gentlemen, I finally call on you to continue our campaign to defend women's rights, following up on the motion for a resolution voted on 10 June 2016 in the Brussels Parliament. The purpose of the Act is to make femicide a criminal offence. Such a signal would show how concerned our society is to protect women from violence that is – and will always be – unacceptable and unjustifiable. Of course, we will support this text, and I ask all of you to do the same.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-26-54-plenair-ip154x.u79	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The meeting's over. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-26-54-plenair-ip154x.u80	The vote on the proposal will take place later. The vote on the proposal will take place at a later stage.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-26-54-plenair-ip154x.u81	The next item is the ballot for the appointment of non-notary alternate members of the Committees of Appointment for the Notariat.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-26-54-plenair-ip154x.u82	Mr President, I have a question about the procedure to follow.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-26-54-plenair-ip154x.u83	You have the floor, Mrs. Onkelinx.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-26-54-plenair-ip154x.u84	Mr President, after this important discussion on violence against women, we come to the agenda, which concerns, in particular, the appointment of members of the notarial appointment committee. This is a two-thirds vote, calculated on the total number of valid votes. It is therefore appropriate to give everyone the opportunity to express a valid choice, but perhaps not the one proposed. In other words, they must be left with the ability to say no about one person or the other. We must be able to say yes or no. I would not understand that only one kind of vote is allowed, namely "yes" – any other choice being considered invalid or as a blank vote. That's not right!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-26-54-plenair-ip154x.u85	Mr. President, Mrs. Onkelinx is right.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-26-54-plenair-ip154x.u86	Thank you. Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-26-54-plenair-ip154x.u87	I believe that there is an effective problem and that we are at risk of entering into a procedural debate. However, the vote on the notary is urgent. This has been announced to us, and this has also been reported to us in the Conference of Presidents, for very practical reasons, namely that an examination has been issued on which candidates have prepared themselves. This work should be able to go further. That is why I am free to propose that, firstly, we suspend the sitting and, secondly, we convene the Conference of Presidents immediately. That Conference of Presidents will begin in a few minutes.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-26-54-plenair-ip154x.u88	I hope that a valid vote will be organised so that we do not experience the same thing as the Committee of Inquiry. Could you tell everyone's agenda whether, for example, the sitting will be suspended for half an hour or 45 minutes? Some have other tasks to do.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-26-54-plenair-ip154x.u89	I understand the question, but it is difficult to say anything about it in advance. Would half an hour be enough, Mrs. Onkelinx? The meeting was suspended. The meeting is adjourned.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-26-54-plenair-ip154x.u90	The meeting was resumed. The sitting has resumed. Colleagues, the item on the appointment of the alternate members of the non-notaries of the Notary Committees will be postponed to next week.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-26-54-plenair-ip154x.u91	The last distributed agenda contains a list of proposals for which consideration has been requested. You have taken note of the list of proposals for consideration in the agenda distributed to you. If there is no objection, I shall consider it adopted; in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, these proposals shall be sent to the committees responsible. If there are no comments on this subject, I will take it into account as a matter of fact and refer the proposals back to the relevant committees in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 25 January 2017, I also propose that you consider: - the bill (Mrs Leen Dierick c.s.) introducing the Coordinated Universal Time (UTC) as a basis for legal time in Belgium, no. 2280/1. - the bill (Mrs Leen Dierick c.s.) establishing an electronic business mailbox, No. 2281/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-26-54-plenair-ip154x.u92	- the legislative proposal (Mrs Carina Van Cauter and Mr Sonja Becq, Mr Philippe Goffin and Mrs Sarah Smeyers) amending the Civil Code as regards inheritances and gifts and amending various other relevant provisions, No. 2282/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-26-54-plenair-ip154x.u93	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 25 January 2017, I also propose that you take into account: - the proposal for a law (Ms. Leen Dierick et al.) establishing the Coordinated Universal Time (UTC) as the basis for legal time in Belgium, No. 2280/1. - the proposal for a law (Ms. Leen Dierick et al.) creating an electronic company mailbox, No. 2281/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-26-54-plenair-ip154x.u94	- the draft law (Ms. Carina Van Cauter and Sonja Becq, Mr. Philippe Goffin and Mrs. Sarah Smeyers) amending the Civil Code with regard to successions and gifts and amending various other provisions in this field, No. 2282/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-26-54-plenair-ip154x.u95	Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-26-54-plenair-ip154x.u96	This inquiry was developed in a public meeting of the Finance and Budget Committee on 18 January 2017. This interview was held at the public meeting of the Finance and Budget Commission of 18 January 2017. Two motions were tabled (MOT nr. 191/1): - a motion of recommendation was tabled by Ms. Muriel Gerkens; - a simple motion was tabled by Messrs. Luk Van Biesen, Eric Van Rompuy and Bert Wollants. Two motions were tabled (MOT n° 191/1): - a motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mrs Muriel Gerkens; - a simple motion was tabled by Mr Luk Van Biesen, Mr Eric Van Rompuy and Mr Bert Wollants. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put this motion to the vote. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-26-54-plenair-ip154x.u97	Mr President, Belgium, via the Port of Antwerp, is a major importer of wood. This is a good thing because it is an important economic activity. However, we have found, through written questions and the Minister's answers, including in committee, that, in the way we complete our customs import documents, it is not mandatory to specify from which country or company the wood comes from. This prevents the identification of cases of non-compliance with European regulations requiring economic operators to prove that they do not import timber illegally. In my motion, I simply ask that the government make arrangements to require customs to fill in these two fields of information. That's all. I thought it was obvious.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-26-54-plenair-ip154x.u98	Start of voting / Start of the vote. Did everyone vote and check their vote? / Did everyone vote and check his voice? End of voting / End of vote. Result of the vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-26-54-plenair-ip154x.u99	Yes 76 Yes No. 62 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 138 Total The simple motion was adopted. Therefore, the motion for recommendation is over. The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motion of recommendation lapses.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-26-54-plenair-ip154x.u100	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 2) Yes 134 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 2 Abstensions Total 136 Total As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (2168/4) Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (2168/4) Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-26-54-plenair-ip154x.u101	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 3) Yes 138 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 138 Total Accordingly, the House adopted the motion for a resolution. This will be made known to the government. (1725/9) Consequently, the Court adopts the motion for a resolution. It will be notified to the government. (1725/9)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-26-54-plenair-ip154x.u102	We must proceed with the adoption of the agenda for Thursday 2 February 2017, with the addition of the appointment of alternate non-notaries. We must proceed to the approval of the agenda of the sitting on Thursday, February 2, 2017, with the addition of the appointment of non-notary alternate members. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] The agenda has been adopted. No observation? [[No]] The agenda was approved. The meeting is adjourned. Next sitting on Thursday, February 2, 2017 at 2.15 p.m. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Thursday 2 February 2017 at 2.15 p.m.
