ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic650x.u1	Madam President, Minister, the coalition agreement states: "In order to be able to act in the event of traffic infringements, the powers of the military police will be extended. However, this cannot have the effect of involving the military police to replace the regular police forces." I have the following questions. What is the state of play with regard to extending the powers of the military police? What powers do you put forward for action in the event of traffic infringements, only administrative fines or also criminal proceedings? Finally, how do you foresee the follow-up of these traffic breaches? Through the parquet or administratively?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic650x.u2	Madam President, Mr Yüksel, a working group has been set up within the Ministry of Defence to study the extension of the powers of the military police in the area of traffic. This working group has not yet decided which infringements could be specifically covered by the extension of the powers of the military police. Therefore, no legislative changes have yet been proposed in order to grant these new powers to the military police.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic650x.u3	Thank you, Minister. Is there a timing set? When will this working group come forward with the proposals?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic650x.u4	On that question, for the time being, I must remain guilty of the answer. I'll get it to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic650x.u5	Madam President, Minister, I would like to ask you about the possible strengthening and extension of the Alliance's mission in Afghanistan. Indeed, the Secretary General of NATO referred to the possibility of strengthening and extending the current NATO mission in support of Afghan forces in their fight against Islamist insurgents. In recent weeks, several members of the security forces and many civilians have been killed by the Taliban. According to some sources, 135 new recruits were killed at a base in the north of the country. Mr Minister, I would therefore like to ask you the following questions. What do you think of the idea put forward by the Secretary General of NATO? According to Mr Stoltenberg, a decision should be taken in the course of June, can you explain to us what attitude Belgium will take in this context? Is the Belgian Government ready to explore the possibility of increasing the presence of Belgian soldiers on this mission?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic650x.u6	Madam President, Mr Crusnière, in his approach to contributing to stability outside its borders, NATO is undertaking a number of actions within the broad framework of the Defence and Related Security Capacity Building to help some nations better lead the fight against terrorism, including in the Middle East and Afghanistan. The situation in Afghanistan remains highly volatile and security structures such as the Afghan National Defence and Security Forces cannot face future security challenges without international assistance. NATO is currently studying long-term needs in order to quantify areas of international action and assistance. Following the development of a roadmap for Afghanistan's future, NATO will conduct a force generation process. At present, we do not have enough concrete data to study a possible Belgian contribution to this operation.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic650x.u7	Thank you, Minister. I take note of your answer. For the time being, there is no specific request or position on this matter. We will, of course, remain attentive to any requests and follow-up.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic650x.u8	Madam President, Minister, my group is looking forward to a debate on one of its proposals calling for new initiatives to be taken by your department with regard to young people who would be interested in a training or career within it. Defence must foster armed-nation interaction and the development of a spirit of citizenship and must make known the full range of its action to the young people who desire it. Some initiatives had been taken, such as the status of the Voluntary Military Commitment (EVMI) or the Defence Youth Internships. Unfortunately, these internships are largely unknown, and the EVMI status, which is aimed particularly at young people in difficulty on the labour market, has only a very, even too limited, success, as the parliamentary debates have recently proved. In addition, the former Minister of Defence, André Flahaut, had drafted a law that introduced a "collective utility service" (SUC). The aim was to hire young people into the army to carry out tasks of collective utility and to render service to society after basic training, which represented a way for them to integrate the army by making themselves useful. While the law has been passed by the House, the implementing orders have never been issued. I would therefore like to ask you, Minister, the following questions. Do you intend to carry out a study of the various initiatives taken in the past - such as the Voluntary Military Commitment (EVMI), the Service d'utilité collectif (SUC), the active recruiters and the youth internships - in order to attract interested young people to the army and to see how to improve them and above all to make them attractive to young people? What are your objectives in this regard? Are material support initiatives for youth movements planned for this summer, as in previous years?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic650x.u9	Madam President, Mrs Fernandez Fernandez, the EVMI has been suspended, given the lack of interest on the part of young people and the competition with the statute of limited duration. The service of collective utility, on the other hand, has never really come into being. Since 2010, internships for young people have been reoriented to better reflect military reality. These priorities have been reflected mainly in the selection of internships and activities for young people. Specific technical courses related to critical technical functions have been created. Defence also organizes discovery courses for combat functions, immersion days and sports training days for future young applicants. For 2017, there are 478 places in internships for young people and 1,237 places in registrations. Moreover, in the area of youth movements, bivouac places are made available every year, free of charge. The procedures are available on the Defence website. Finally, tents, camp beds and other types of equipment may be solicited. For some of these requests, costs are charged. I would like to add that normally we are working with the Communities to make the equipment available.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic650x.u10	Madam President, of course I thank the minister for the full and quantified answer he has given us. This proves a real interest in internships. He did not answer me about the collective utility service, but this may be the subject of a next question. As I said, this has never been implemented. My question was whether you see an interest in it or a reflection on the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic650x.u11	I can answer you: we are making a lot of investments to attract young people to Defence. And I think we need to focus on what works. And although we don't do much publicity, we have to see three entries for each place in the youth internships. In my view, this is where we need to invest and study how to open up more places and advertise more. Many other initiatives could be taken, but they will not necessarily contribute to a better understanding of Defence.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic650x.u12	I got my answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic650x.u13	Madam President, Minister, on 26 and 27 April an informal meeting of EU Defence Ministers took place in Valletta (Malta). This meeting builds on the conclusions of the December 2016 European Council on the Common Security and Defence Policy, which called for further development and integration of this policy, and serves as a preparation for the formal meeting of EU Defence Ministers at the end of this month and next month's European Council. Over the past year, the European Commission has already proposed a number of documents that serve as a basis for further development of the Common Security and Defence Policy: the Strategic Document Shared Vision, Common Action: A Stronger Europe "A Global Strategy for the European Union's Foreign and Security Policy of 28 June 2016 by the High Representative of the Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy, Federica Mogherini, committed to a more integrated defence cooperation within the European Union; proposals from the High Representative to implement this global strategy in Implementation Plan on Security and Defence; and the Communication from the European Commission on the European Defence Action Plan including a European Defence Fund. I have questions for you, Minister. What guidelines were adopted for this month's formal meeting of EU Defence Ministers and next month's European Council to further develop and integrate the Common Security and Defence Policy? What position have you taken on behalf of our country at this informal meeting and what views will you defend at this month's formal meeting? How do you view the development of the common security and defence policy in the medium and long term?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic650x.u14	Mr Yüksel, first of all let me mention that the meeting on 26 and 27 April was an informal meeting. This means that no binding decisions were taken there and no formal positions were formulated either. It was more of a meeting to listen to the handover of the Presidency. In any case, Malta has discussed, among other things, the position of Europe's reliable security partner, the operation in the Mediterranean and off the Libyan coast, the Sophia operation, and the better use of the European battle groups (EBRDs). In addition, it was also about making European cooperation in the field of security and defence less non-committal. I believe that a number of initiatives have been taken informally to take concrete steps forward. Our country is increasingly in favour of greater integration and cooperation, and is also taking the lead in this area, including by developing capacities jointly with our partner countries. As far as the Navy is concerned, we do this with the Dutch, for example. As far as the NH90 is concerned, we do so with a number of other countries. We are also working with other countries to find ways of developing additional capacity. In any case, the general tone of the meeting was one of urgency and there was the shared will to find a good solution for the Union and its Member States, without, however, competing with NATO.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic650x.u15	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. Of course, it is about an informal preparatory meeting. You did not answer the question as to whether new elements could be added to our country's position by the end of this month. A common security and defence policy in the medium term will, of course, strengthen our country but also Europe. In doing so, we can better respond to the problems and challenges facing us.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic650x.u16	On 25 May, a NATO summit will indeed take place in Brussels to adapt NATO to the new security situation and to discuss defence expenditure and distribution for the Member States. On 2 May, Prime Minister Michel received Mr Stoltenberg, Secretary-General of NATO. What views were exchanged on defence and security matters at that meeting between NATO and our country? What is the purpose of the NATO summit on 25 May? What is the position of the new Trump administration on NATO? It blows warm and cold at the same time. How do you estimate the impact of this new administration on NATO policy on Russia and on defence expenditure? What views will our country take at the NATO summit?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic650x.u17	Mr Yüksel, first of all I must say that we are no longer talking about a NATO summit, but about a special NATO meeting. Apparently nomenclature is rather important in that respect. Firstly, for your question on what was discussed at yesterday's meeting of Prime Minister Michel and NATO Secretary General Stoltenberg, I must refer you to the Prime Minister. Since I was not there myself, I have no information to give. Secondly, with regard to the special meeting of NATO, you have in fact already mentioned what the elements to be achieved are. First and foremost, the adaptation of NATO to the new security situation will be discussed, with particular reference to the contribution that NATO can make as such in the fight against terrorism. In addition, of course, we will continue to talk about the defence pledge, as it was signed and approved in Wales at the time and partly confirmed in Warsaw. Finally, the basis on which the burden can be shared will be examined. Thirdly, you are asking for my position on the Trump administration and NATO organisation. I have been able to take note of Trump's more flexible attitude towards NATO. In any case, Trump has now established that he makes best alliances. I feel that American foreign policy has not changed so much. However, a different tone is used than in the past: one communicates rather action-oriented rather than in diplomatic terms which one normally uses. For the positions that our country will take at the NATO summit, I must refer you to other ministers, because the special NATO meeting will be organised at the level of the Heads of State or Government. Consequently, the Belgian position will be expressed by the Prime Minister and the Minister for Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic650x.u18	Thank you, Minister, for your diplomatic response. I think it's going to be an important summit. The issue that will cause a lot of discussion is, of course, the contribution that our country and all the Member States have to pay to NATO.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic650x.u19	Mr Yüksel, you must make a good distinction. On the one hand, there is NATO funding, where everyone does what they have to do and the non-American members pay more than 70%. On the other hand, the major NATO partners are calling for increased national defence efforts. There is no dispute about the financing of NATO.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic650x.u20	We agree on that. It is about national spending in the NATO context. There will be a discussion on this. The question is how we will position ourselves in that debate. What new commitments will we formulate or confirm in this respect? That's what interests us. We will also address the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic650x.u21	Madam President, Minister, a great deal has already been said and written about the regrettable news of the civilian casualties in Mosul on 17 March. At the end of March, The Guardian felt that there was Belgian involvement in the operation that led to these civilian casualties. A number of colleagues immediately jumped on the cart to show this. Meanwhile, several committee meetings took place, including a number of follow-up committees on foreign missions. Two weeks ago, a lot of questions were asked in this committee about civilian casualties on 17 March. You replied that you were waiting for the official report to take a stand. Last week we learned through the VRT that the Belgian army might not be involved. I use the conditional method. That is why it seemed relevant to me to hear the state of play on this dossier today.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic650x.u22	Madam President, Mr Buysrogge, first of all I would like to refer to what we discussed this morning in committee behind closed doors. The international coalition is currently conducting an investigation and no official report has yet been published. As a partner in the coalition, of course, we are asking for that report. Let it be clear, however, that I will not make any statements as long as I do not have a formal report.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic650x.u23	Thank you, Minister, for your reply and for your explanation behind closed doors this morning. I think The Guardian would have checked better, this to avoid some gratuite statements. Personally, I also find it disturbing that a number of fellow Members have jumped on that same cart to prove the lack of transparency of the Belgian army. I understand you'd like to await the official results of the investigation. However, I would like to stress once again that the Belgian army and the F-16 people in particular are always reluctant in the missions that are carried out under the motto when there is doubt, there is no doubt. It seems relevant to me to inform the follow-up committee on foreign missions as soon as you know more about the results, also to identify the possibilities for public coverage to keep the population informed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic650x.u24	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, this week we read in the newspapers that there is a trial going on, under pressure from three Belgian officers against the Belgian army. The latter would not have acted against harassment by a superior in the workplace. Of course, I am waiting with you for the ruling of the Brussels Labour Court on this particular case, but I would like to ask you a number of questions. Are you aware of the problems involved? Can you tell us at what level military personnel can take the lead in cases of harassment, stalking or unwanted behaviour on the workplace? In how many cases has this actually happened in 2016 and this year? Do you think there is sufficient attention to this issue in the Defense Department and in your services?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic650x.u25	Madam President, Mr Yüksel, you know that if you refer to what was published in different newspapers this weekend, this is about an individual dossier. You may understand that I do not go into any individual case at all. Parliament is not the place to discuss individual cases and processes. That is precisely why we cherish the separation of powers. If you can reassure me, I was informed of the complaints that have been made in the press. What's our frame? A defence officer may, in addition to one of the 95 trusted persons, also call on the prevention counsellor psychosocial aspects. [[Moreover, for psychosocial assistance, he can contact other actors such as his unit commander and, more generally, seek help through his hierarchical line.]] Finally, he can also address the worker physician, a chaplain or a moral consultant. Moreover, the Complaint Management Service is always available to provide the necessary advice. As you know, the Complaints Management department deals with both internal and external complaints. Internally, 95 confidants were identified who should in principle be known to the individual military. If we are no longer talking about complaints but about procedures, we must distinguish between informal and formal procedures. Informal procedures and interventions can be handled by a trusted person or the prevention counsellor psychosocial aspects. The formal procedure can only be dealt with by the prevention counsellor psychosocial aspects. So there is an escalation where one first finds access to his confidant, after which one actually looks at whether there really is a case or not. In 2016, seven new formal psychosocial interventions and 174 informal interventions were registered. You will understand that I do not have any figures for 2017. Do I believe that adequate attention is being paid to this issue? I believe that we are doing everything that is necessary under the legislation. However, I also believe that our services are characterised, both in my question and in their own efforts, because they know the importance of well-being at work, by a very proactive attitude in this respect; which I naturally appreciate.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic650x.u26	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. What appeared in the newspapers is obviously the reason for this question, but I also indicated in my question that I do not want to go into the specific case. However, I believe that we in the Defence Committee should also be alert to the wider framework for dealing with stalking, harassment and unwanted behaviour. We must also take a shorter approach to these matters. You have explained the procedures and the agencies that have been created for them in the Defense Department. Based on the figures for 2016 alone, I cannot, of course, draw any conclusions about increasing or reducing these problems compared to the past few years. In any case, stalking, harassment and the like must be given adequate attention. Can you not tell me, on the basis of the complaints, whether the problem remains manageable and increases or decreases?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic650x.u27	Mr Yüksel, you must distinguish between the formal and informal procedures in the numbers I have given you. Especially as far as the formal procedures are concerned, we are talking about the law of the small numbers. This year, for example, there may have been seven complaints and eight complaints last year. These are, of course, huge differences. It is very important to distinguish between informal and formal. Informally, it actually means visiting the confidential person, where a conversation is held. The people are brought together to discuss the problem, the hands are handed over and the case is over. As soon as a formal procedure is initiated, it is, of course, also the case that the person concerned has better protection, in the sense that he cannot be imposed on him by a change and the like. Then, of course, it's about serious facts. You ask what possible evolutions are coming. It is difficult, however, to make comparisons with the past, because in recent years things have happened in relation to the regulatory background, such as the interpretation of the trusted person. The comparison of procedures is therefore very difficult because they are very different. I cannot comment on whether seven formal procedures out of 30 000 employees are large or small. In that respect, I have no benchmarks.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-03-54-commissie-ic650x.u28	We have come to the end of this sitting.
