ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic738x.u1	Madam Minister, this question dates back to 6 June, even before the recess. However, I believe that it is still important to retain them. It's about the CREG scan. According to the CREG, around 500 000 individuals in our country have too expensive an energy contract. For example, half a million families still pay far too much for electricity and natural gas and the differences between the cheapest and the most expensive contracts on the market appear to be much larger than expected according to the CREG. Flemish families sometimes pay up to 520 euros for natural gas and up to 182 euros for electricity. This concerns the old contracts which are implicitly renewed by the suppliers, often for the old, far too high prices. On 10 February 2017, the CREG launched a new tool, the so-called CREG scan, whereby the consumer can compare his energy contract, even if that contract is no longer available on the market, with all existing contracts. In this way, consumers can see whether the contract concluded in the past is still a good choice or not. As a result of this report, I have a number of questions. Madam Minister, do you currently have an overview of the number of families and SMEs that have already consulted the new CREG scan? Can you explain how they were informed about the new comparison tool? Regional tools already exist, but now the CREG tool is added. How was that communicated? The price differences shown by this are certainly a big surprise. Before the scan, the CREG also carried out market monitoring, but it is very striking that it is only now that the contract of more than 500 000 individuals, which is automatically renewed, is still subject to very high prices. Is it not remarkable that this conclusion has just been reached? Couldn't the CREG have signaled that before? I would also like to know what you will do to ensure that those consumers are warned, use the tool and are encouraged to conclude cheaper contracts. I look forward to your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic738x.u2	Mrs Dierick, first of all, since its launch in February 2017, the CREG scan has already received more than 2 055 visitors. To your second question on how families and SMEs are informed about the existence of the comparison tool, I have the following answers. These responses refer to different sites. I would prefer to send you in writing the information that is contained in the answer that has been prepared for me. Thirdly, you ask me to support the initiative and, if so, why. It is not my role to support the CREG initiative or not. The CREG is independent. The initiative improves the transparency of the market for the supply of electricity and natural gas, and thus the provision of information to consumers. Moreover, it improves competition in these markets, which sometimes also significantly reduces household accounts. I am referring to households who, after they have been able to compare their existing contract, which is no longer offered to new customers and which cannot be found on the sites with independent price comparisons, will be able to compare the prices of the contracts currently offered with a more interesting contract, whether or not with the same supplier. The sentence is so long that I would read it again to see what was answered to you. I hope you understand my Dutch. The sentence is very long and consists of two subordinates. As far as the fourth question is concerned, in the context of its legal tasks, it is in relation to the safety net mechanism, the CREG has been maintaining data banks since 2012 which include price calculations for variable price contracts. The government agreement provides that the mechanism will be abandoned on December 31, 2017. On its own initiative, CREG has expanded its databases to include products or contracts where the energy component is at fixed prices in order to provide a comprehensive view of energy markets for households and SMEs. Thus, every month, adaptations and new products are incorporated into the databases which also serve as the basis for the development of the CREG Scan tool. Following the launch of the CREG Scan and the numerous questions that CREG has received from consumers, it has been decided to take into account in its databases and in the results of the CREG Scan contracts and/or products renewed, very old and often also very expensive. To achieve this, CREG requested from the above-mentioned supplier all tariff sheets for all versions of the renewed products. The CREG Scan therefore currently contains more than 6 000 existing versions of electricity and gas contracts for individuals and SMEs. You are asking me, fifthly, how I would like to deal with this smaller group, which includes 500,000 families whose terms of the contract are too high. It is appropriate to extend only with active products by giving the consumer only basic information: tariff sheet, name, product of the contract, version of the product. The aim is for those concerned to be able to compare products more accurately. It is also necessary to continue to inform consumers about developments in the energy market, while reminding them of their ultimate responsibility to the extent that the choice belongs to them. We found, but perhaps you know, that a lot of contract changes and comparisons had taken place at some point. However, overall, Belgians remain fairly faithful to the contract they have concluded and change less and less often. We would like to reopen the possibility of comparing and, as we have already discussed, simplifying the comparison criteria with a view to providing consumers with more ease so that they can eventually switch suppliers more easily. It is true that one can always complain of having signed a contract at too high an amount, but one must also make a small effort to compare and change contracts if one thinks it is too expensive to pay.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic738x.u3	Thank you, Madam Secretary. I understand your answer. I do not find 2 055 visitors very much, especially since no less than 500 000 consumers have a very heavy contract. We also don't know if all those visitors belong to those 500 thousand. I would like to insist that this is well communicated through various channels, so that the consumer knows about this tool. On the other hand, there are already many tools to increase transparency. There's the VREG test and now there's the CREG test. We must ensure that consumers still see the trees through the forest. If there are a lot of tools, we don't know which one will be used. I think there should be consultation between the various regulators so that it remains clear to the consumer. In any case, I believe that we should continue to work on encouraging consumers with a much too expensive contract to take the test and switch to cheaper contracts.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic738x.u4	Mr President, Madam Minister, initially I had addressed this question to Minister Peeters from the point of view of consumer protection. Today, she's coming back to you. I therefore hope that you will be able to answer me also from this point of view of consumer protection. Recently, the problem of the oil tanks being drilled has come to my attention. It affects many citizens every year and raises a number of questions, particularly in terms of consumer protection. Clean-up costs are exorbitant and often amount to tens of thousands of euros. These are huge sums that not all citizens are necessarily able to cover. Insurance is not involved in land treatment and clean-up. Moreover, clean-up renovations do not benefit from the 6% VAT reduction. Minister, what figures do you have on this issue? Have you ever been able to gather the views of insurers, consumer associations or industry professionals on this topic? What reasons did the legislator not include clean-up work in the 6% VAT reduction? Have you initiated meetings with the Regions, which are competent in the field of soil remediation? Finally, are you planning to take action on this issue? What are you thinking?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic738x.u5	Madam Minister, I asked a number of questions on this subject last year and six months ago. You replied that you still had to ask for the information from your administration and that the dossier could only then be put to the stage and submitted to the Council of Ministers. The Region has also been asked several times to take an initiative so that the fuel oil fund could finally be set up. Despite your contacts with the Regions, nothing has come of it. There would have been a breakthrough recently. You and Minister Peeters would have taken an initiative in this matter, hence my questions about a state of affairs. Firstly, is there indeed a breakthrough in the creation of a fund? Secondly, have you taken a position and what is the federal position? Thirdly, when will you conclude an agreement? When can we finally expect the fund? I assume that the regional ministers responsible for energy will be pleased that an initiative has been taken at federal level. Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic738x.u6	Minister, I am not going to repeat everything that my colleagues have said very well. Everything revolves around this fund which needs to be set up in cooperation with the Regions. Has the remaining resources to the BOFAS Fund been transferred to the new fund in accordance with the decision of the Council of Ministers of 27 January? What is the status of the consultation with the Region? Will a cooperation agreement be finalized? When is it expected that this fund will begin to provide support to individuals - it is still the most important? Will the aid also be available to legal persons?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic738x.u7	Madam Minister, in an article on Limburg's Interest, we could read that funds will be transferred from the BOFAS to a new fuel oil tank fund called PREMAZ. Many questions have been asked about this since the beginning of the legislature. After all, we found that citizens who had in the past been allowed to place a metal fuel tank underground are now often confronted with contaminated soil. Metal fuel oil tanks appear to be susceptible to corrosion, causing leakage. The towering costs for land renovation were mainly borne by the affected citizens. Moreover, the non-sanitation of the land resulted in an unsaleability of their property. A lot of the victims were getting off financially tragically. The government agreement states that the government, in cooperation with the Regions, will set up a fund to deal with soil pollution. We are pleased to hear that there is an agreement in the pipeline. Which individuals are eligible for compensation from the fund? What amounts will they be able to receive from the Fund? Can amounts be granted retroactively? At what time do you see the effective entry into force of the fund? When will the first payouts be possible? How will the PREMAZ fund be further supplemented when the funds transferred from the BOFAS are exhausted? Do you have an agreement with your fellow ministers and the Länder on both the abolition of the BOFAS and the creation of the new fund?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic738x.u8	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I can confirm that on my proposal and in collaboration with my colleagues in the Economy and Finance, the Council of Ministers of 27 January 2017 had approved a federal perspective on this matter and had entrusted me with bringing this point of view, as a negotiating mandate, to the Regions, in order to conclude a cooperation agreement. As you know, the negotiation of cooperation agreements is never easy, and this issue was first discussed during the enlarged Interdepartmental Conference on the Environment. In preparation for a meeting of this conference on 28 September 2017, a political compromise was reached in order to reconcile views at the federal and interregional levels. Finally, we perceive white smoke in this dossier, which has already been in existence for some legislatures. Eight to nine months were needed to achieve this agreement with the Regions. A first decision of the Interdepartmental Conference concerns the approval of the application of ASBL BOFAS for the zero reduction of BOFAS contributions on fuels, from 1 January 2018. The funding of this fund will end on 1 January 2018. This can be done following the publication of a ministerial decree at the federal level and by a government decree relating to it within each of the Regions. We must act simultaneously. Secondly, the Inter-Ministerial Conference agrees to this draft cooperation agreement, which provides for a new and, consequently, a third deadline for the registration of the soil remediation files of gas stations and for the establishment of the Fund for the remediation of the soil of gas oil tanks for heating purposes. In line with the BOFAS Fund, this new fund will provide operational and financial support for the clean-up of polluted soils due to the operation of heating gas oil storage tanks. At the moment, the final terms of these interventions are still being finalized and I cannot answer a series of specific questions that you have asked. I do not expect approval by the four parliaments until 2018. It is certain that the financial surpluses of the ASBL BOFAS will be transferred to the Fonds des cisterns de gasoil. The advisability of using the experience and know-how of the current staff of the BOFAS ASBL in favour of the Fund for the clean-up of the soil of the gasoil tanks to be created is an argument that we had already adopted at the federal level and in its mandate decided during the Council of Ministers earlier this year. That is why it is all the more important to finalize without delay the agreement that we are implementing, so that we can retain this advantage, which is undoubtedly important. The extension of the BOFAS Fund will also not allow us to benefit from the experience of those who worked there for a very long time. We believe that this would be a very positive element for the current staff of BOFAS, which will not have to start by 2019, but also for the launch of the new fund in order to work properly on the territory of the Regions to clean up the soil. The answers to the questions whether this is for legal persons or individuals, whether the insurers have been concerted and other very specific questions will come to the discussion later, when we have finalized this cooperation agreement. We're not very far from it. We have an inter-federal inter-cabinet meeting that will soon address the issue so that it can come into the various governments and move on to the Consultation Committee, the platform that brings together regional and federal ministers.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic738x.u9	Madam Minister, thank you. It is a good thing to have made progress in the implementation of this cooperation agreement. You can only be encouraged to move as quickly as possible towards the validation of this important agreement. I am still hungry about my questions about the recipients and how this will be implemented. That's the crux of the problem. I will allow myself to return to the subject. I had other more specific questions, but I would ask them in writing because I would appreciate figures on the problems that may have arisen with regard to this topic, the number of persons concerned, both legal and private. These elements can be important. I also asked you a question about the reduction of VAT, but I did not have an answer. I do not know whether this is part of the cooperation agreement. I will come back to the matter later.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic738x.u10	Madam Minister, at least I welcome the agreement at the Inter-Ministerial Conference. You say that the modalities still need to be laid down; I hope that will be done as soon as possible. The arrangements are inextricably linked to the creation of the fuel oil fund. As long as no implementing arrangements have been laid down, the fund is not yet operational and it cannot be said that the fund has been set up. So there's still work on the shelf. I would ask all those involved, and certainly you too, to proceed quickly with the effective establishment of the fuel oil fund. We have been working on this for a long time.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic738x.u11	Madam Minister, as my colleague has said, we have been waiting for this fund for a long time. It is true that there is expertise in the BOFAS Fund and that it should be retained. I understand that as far as the terms of the cooperation agreement are concerned, we will have to wait until 2018. However, I hope it will be early 2018 and not at the end of 2018. I think the sector and many players are looking forward to this fund. It is also about our ability to clean up our environment. I know you're not alone, but let's try to speed up the movement so that, at last, this fund is eligible for anyone, whatever they are, since we don't yet know who will be eligible.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic738x.u12	Madam Secretary, thank you for your answers. What is regrettable is that you do not answer the questions that citizens are waiting for: when will there be a compensation, who will receive that compensation and what amounts will it be? From your explanation it will have to be completed in early 2018. So all the questioners will once again ask the question when everything is in order.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic738x.u13	Mr President, Madam Minister, I do not understand very well why my question has been redirected to Mrs Marghem because it deals primarily with the aspect of consumer protection. Perhaps the minister will provide an answer in that direction. Who knows, is the minister more sensitive to consumer protection than Minister Peeters. It's possible. I'm waiting for the answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic738x.u14	It's my colleague Peeters who likes me to answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic738x.u15	That must be it! Minister, we're trying to make the public aware of sustainable energy. In this context, the use of LED lamps is important. It is also an argument that traders use to sell LED lamps that are more expensive than normal lamps that will eventually disappear and are much less environmentally friendly. However, it seems that some manufacturers sell office lamps where the LED is set, integrated into the lamp frame. They fail after a few months and, since you can't change the lamp, these office lamps are good to throw away. There was a whole debate about the planned obsolescence. It's exactly the same thing. This applies not only to small, dubious quality lamps but also to design lamps worth several hundred euros! It's a bit like a disposable handkerchief, while there was obviously not the goal of LED and sustainable manufacturing. This is probably difficult to manage at Belgian level. Instead, changes should take place in European standards. The European Commission has made the circular economy its next challenge, but with these set lamps, it is missing the check. Madam Minister, can you tell me who is delivering the Belgian Government's speech at European level? I don't know because it's under discussion right now. Could Belgium not be the driving force in the face of all this problem of LED lamps and disposable lamps? The consumer is no longer there, but the environment is even less there, of course. It is also often found that the indications on LED lamps are in foreign language. The consumer therefore does not understand them. Would it not require a standard in this regard to ensure that these indications are included in the languages of the country? Finally, LED lamps are placed on the market without being "eco-designed". Yet that was the objective of the European Union. In the end, there is a variety of integrated LED lamps on the market which, from an environmental point of view, are of no use. This also does nothing for consumers, and it costs a lot more. Minister, do you have any information on this matter? Have any complaints been filed by consumers? Have any actions been taken? Are you planning to organise an information campaign for consumers on the importance of buying LED lamps after checking their specificities? In any case, as far as I am concerned, I believe that certain types of LED lamps should be removed from the market.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic738x.u16	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, your question falls within my competence as well as that of my colleague Kris Peeters, since we are both competent in the field of circular economy. Having said that, the standard for energy products and savings falls within my sole competence. The issue here is the release into the atmosphere of too many greenhouse gases by combustion, and therefore the need to generate too much electricity to light up. That's probably why I have to answer your question. However, you will recall that we launched together, more than a year ago, twenty-one measures in the area of circular economy. We are now waiting for the European directives, particularly with regard to VAT, a matter which falls within the competence of the Minister of Finance, with the aim of acting on the ground. But I'm coming back to the subject we're dealing with. Non-replaceable LED modules in lighting frames are indeed a potential source of waste when they stop operating faster than expected. Even if integrated, they must meet the minimum requirements for LED lamps. Thus, after 6,000 hours, 90% of LED-type copies still have to operate and retain at least 80% of their luminous intensity. That's the rule. The Environment DG of the FPS Public Health is responsible for monitoring manufacturers' compliance with these rules. In addition, in order to inform the consumer, the presence of non-replaceable LED modules in a lighting frame must be clearly marked on an "energy" label which must be visibly affixed to each frame. Control of the presence of this label and the use of languages other than that of the linguistic region was carried out by the Economic Inspectorate of the SPF Economy and, therefore, by my colleague Kris Peeters, Deputy Prime Minister and Federal Minister for Employment, the Economy and Consumer Protection. I am informed that European legislation will be reviewed over the next two years. In the discussions related to this, the language problems relating to the "energy" label that you refer to will be included, at my request, on the agenda. Belgium is very active in the European debate on material efficiency and the circular economy. The experts in my administration are actively contributing to the development of standards for the recycling, repair and durability of products. Historically, DG Environment has been at the forefront of this effort. In mid-October, a first round of consultations will be organised within CEN-CENELEC, in which Belgium will participate via the NBM. The final outcome of the European standardisation process is expected in 2019. To support these discussions, I commissioned a study on product repairs, in collaboration with my Benelux counterparts. I repeat, we are trying to work first on the small platform that is Benelux and therefore with partners that we know well. Please also be aware that its secretariat is very active in terms of circular economy. The Environment DG of the FPS Public Health is responsible for the technical follow-up of this study. Various manufacturers, sector organizations and NGOs have expressed their willingness to contribute actively to research. The results are expected next summer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic738x.u17	Minister, thank you for your answer. We see how much this theme is embedded in DGs and FPS. First of all, it is important to clarify this issue, as it is a new product, but above all to inform the consumer. However, this information is lacking on the part of the Department of Economy or even the Environment DG. Consumers sometimes believe that they buy environmentally friendly and recycled products. But he's chewed, because he has to throw the entire device in the trash at some point. Information campaigns are therefore needed, while waiting – which is likely to be long – for European directives. It will take a few years before we can change the law. I would therefore like you, in cooperation with the Minister of Consumer Protection, to launch a major awareness-raising campaign on the issue of LEDs, in particular by explaining how to read a label correctly. That would be very helpful.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic738x.u18	Minister, in the region of Tournai, an environmental impact study, prior to an application for an urban planning permit, was introduced by Elia in order to strengthen the electricity line between Belgium (Avelgem) and France (Avelin). This airline has existed since 1974 and allows for the exchange of electricity between our two countries. Recently, during a storm, one of its towers collapsed with the consequence of diving into the dark part of the region. These structures are more than 40 years old, can you tell me who is responsible for controlling their stability and how often this control should be carried out? Can you tell me if some towers have already been replaced as a result of these incidents?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic738x.u19	Dear colleague, the Avelgem-Avelin section you are referring to is part of the Mercator-Avelin air link, considered to be one of the backbones of the Belgian electricity network. This link, which is indeed about 40 years old, needs to be strengthened in order to meet the future needs of the electricity transmission network. This work is foreseen in Elia's 2015-2025 development plan. This link, a fortiori the section mentioned, has not suffered any collapse of the tower during recent storms or even since its construction. The pylon rupture to which you refer concerns an exceptional climate event, which affected five lines (70 KV) in the region with, in particular, the collapse of some towers of the line (70-150 KV) Tournai-Mouscron. In general, to monitor the integrity and good condition of these facilities, Elia's agents conduct routine visits every year. The purpose of these visits is to ensure the general good condition of the installation, including the structure of each of the towers, which has received special attention with regard to the general condition of its structure, attention to corrosion (verification of absence or presence of corrosion on the metal parts), the condition of the foundations and the absence of gross anomalies, such as deformations or damage. In accordance with Article 272 of the General Regulation on electrical installations, these are subject to an annual inspection by an approved body, in addition to that of Elia. To ensure that the towers remain in good condition, an additional inspection with ascent of a few pylons of the line is carried out by Elia every 12 to 15 years.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic738x.u20	Minister, in Asterix and Obelix, the Gauls were afraid of only one thing: that the sky should fall on their heads. In Tournai and elsewhere, the wish is indeed that these towers do not fall on our heads and you have just given us some guarantees, which I thank you for. I know you love to sing, Madam Minister, and I will not make any parallels with the Gallic Barde, because it really sings very, very false. In any case, if you could be our Insurancetourix, I would be grateful to you, as would all the Tournaisians of the Region.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic738x.u21	Mr President, Madam Minister, on 22 June 2017, in a judgment on the extension of Doel 1 and Doel 2, the Constitutional Court referred nine questions to the Court of Justice of the European Union for a preliminary ruling. For two years, and following several opinions from the legislative section of the Council of State, like others, I encouraged you to be very careful in managing this case and to respect the Aarhus and Espoo Conventions. Minister, are you still in the same state of mind and should you not have or could have been more cautious in dealing with this issue? What is your current analysis of compliance with the Aarhus and Espoo Conventions?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic738x.u22	Mr President, Mr de Lamotte, I would like to begin with a quote from Montesquieu from his book De l'Esprit des lois: "There is no freedom yet if the power to judge is not separated from the legislative power and the executor". The application of this principle of separation of powers dear to Montesquieu means that we do not comment on a judgment and that we let the judges decide disputes impartially. With this fundamental principle being recalled, you will understand that I will wait for the final decisions of the magistrates and I will recall only certain facts. The original law on the exit of nuclear power is the law of 31 January 2003. It provided, on the one hand, for the gradual release of nuclear energy and, on the other hand, that no new nuclear power plant intended for industrial electricity generation from the fission of nuclear fuels could be created and/or put into operation. This was an economic policy decision, for which neither Espoo nor Aarhus were questioned. From the outset of this decision of an economic nature, this is not an issue. Subsequently, the decisions to postpone deactivation were only amendments to the 2003 Act. The Act of 18 December 2013 amending the Act of 31 January 2003 on the progressive release of nuclear energy for the purpose of industrial electricity generation and amending the Act of 11 April 2003 on provisions for the dismantling of nuclear power plants and the management of irradiated fissile material in such plants. This is, in a few words, the law that postpones the deactivation of Tihange 1. Should my predecessor have respected the Aarhus and Espoo Conventions? Shouldn't he have been more careful too? Under the same conditions in relation to these agreements, the Act of 28 June 2015 entitled "Act amending the Act of 31 January 2003 to guarantee security of energy supply" postponed the date of deactivation of Doel 1 and Doel 2. In all three cases, the 2003 law, the 2013 law and the 2015 law, this was each a public economic and energy policy decision. The law of 28 June 2015 is therefore fully within the legal framework laid down by the law of 31 January 2003 and must therefore, like the others, be interpreted in the light of the latter. Is that to say that Belgium, in its institutional complexity, has failed to comply with its obligations contained in the said conventions which have been heard in the broadest sense? In no case, since an environmental permit was issued in 2011 for the Doel site, including the Doel 1 and Doel 2 reactors, during which an environmental impact study was organised, as well as a cross-border public inquiry. The amending law of 28 June 2015 merely postponed the date of deactivation of the Doel 1 and Doel 2 plants and had no effect on the operating authorisation and the environmental permit that preceded it. You're asking me if I should have been more careful in dealing with the case. I will reply to you that the risks to security of supply in Belgium during the adoption of the law of 28 June 2015 were attested by numerous studies carried out by independent bodies, which I repeat and which I indicate in a subpaginal note in my reply of which you will have a copy. These considerations were discussed at length during the parliamentary proceedings that preceded the passage of the law. You were there. The winter of 2015-16, following the adoption of the amending act of June 28, 2015, demonstrated that these considerations were not theoretical. Deletion, i.e. the cut-off of electricity supply to households, SMEs, large enterprises and hospitals, was only narrowly avoided due to the production capacity of the Doel 1 and Doel 2 plants. The measures taken by Belgium were also welcomed by many international bodies. The Belgian transmission system operator considered in April 2016 that the country's security of supply of electricity was rendered less critical by the postponement of the deactivation of the Doel 1 and Doel 2 power plants. In a May 2016 report, the International Energy Agency also notes that the security of electricity supply in Belgium is under high pressure, and that the postponement of the deactivation of these power plants was the right thing to do to meet this energy challenge: "The Belgian State, faced with serious threats to its security of electricity supply, had no choice but to postpone the deactivation of the Doel 1 and Doel 2 power plants, a possibility originally provided for by the law of 31 January 2003."
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic738x.u23	The future will tell us, Madam Minister, as we are not commenting on a decision by a court of justice or a court of law, as you said. The important thing is that the situation has changed, that the Council of State has given opinions, one after the other. We will therefore be waiting to hear the Court of Justice's reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic738x.u24	Mr. Flahaux turned his questions Nos. 19468 and 19955 into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic738x.u25	Madam Minister, the FPS Economy launched a call on 30 June 2017 to submit proposals for energy projects linked to federal powers. Projects should support research and development in innovative renewable energy projects in the North Sea, biofuels and nuclear energy or in systems ensuring supply and grid balance. The projects selected are financed through the so-called Energy Transition Fund. That fund shall be suspended with an annual fee paid to the State by the owner of the nuclear power plants Objectives 1 and 2 in return for the extended opening period. The Royal Decree of 9 May 2017 lays down the conditions of use of the Energy Transition Fund. For 2017, an amount of EUR 15 million could be allocated. Madam Minister, do you have any idea how many projects have been submitted since the call? What are these projects about? Can you explain which bodies have already submitted a project? Is it mainly about companies or also about universities and study centres? Have you received advice on these projects from the FPS Economy? If so, can you explain that opinion? If not, when do you expect that advice? When will it become clear which projects will receive funding from that fund? I submitted my question in July. In the meantime, I suppose there's been some information. I would have liked to have had the most recent state of affairs.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic738x.u26	Mr President, I do not intend to repeat what the Fund is and where it comes from. Here are my questions, Minister. Can you provide details of the applications you have received? How many projects have been submitted? Who are the bidders? What is contained in the FPS Economy analysis, which was due for release by the end of September? When will you make proposals and submit them to the Council of Ministers? What is the Fund's statement of revenue and expenditure to date?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic738x.u27	Thank you for the brevity of your speech, Mrs. Lalieux.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic738x.u28	The call for proposals circulated by the General Executive Board of the Federal Public Service Economy on 30 June 2017 gave rise to the submission of ninety-two, hm, twenty-nine projects. In accordance with the provisions of the call for proposals, the projects submitted cover one or more of the three major thematic axes which, in the context of the energy transition, depend on the powers of the federal state in the field of energy. The first thematic axis is the research and development of innovative projects on the production of energy from renewable energy sources in marine areas and the production and use of biofuels. The second thematic axis relates to research and development in innovative nuclear, nuclear safety, decommissioning and radioactive waste management projects in preparation for the nuclear exit. The third thematic axis concerns the research and development of innovative projects on any system that makes it possible to ensure the supply and/or balance of the transmission network. The various projects were introduced by companies as well as by universities and research centres. In accordance with the procedure laid down in the Royal Decree of 9 May 2017 laying down the procedure for the use of the Energy Transition Fund, the Directorate-General for Energy was to send me an analysis by 30 September 2017 concerning the granting of aid for each project on the basis of the selection and award criteria adopted. I know it's October 3. Last Friday, the Economy Administration did send this text to my firm. This response was written by the administration at a time when the analysis had not yet been done. You'll have to ask me more questions. In accordance with the Royal Decree referred to above, it is envisaged that the grant of aid for the project presented will be decided by 31 October 2017 at the latest by royal decree deliberated in the Council of Ministers. The conditions for granting the aid will then be specified in a grant agreement that the Directorate General for Energy will enter into with each of the beneficiaries. The arrangements for the payment of the aid will be determined taking into account the following provisions: - For projects lasting one year, the aid will be paid in two instalments, 80 % and 20 % respectively. The payment of the first instalment, which constitutes an advance, will be made within 30 working days of the signing of the contract. The second instalment will only be paid after a positive final assessment. - For multi-year projects, 40% of the aid will be paid as an advance within 30 working days of signing the contract. The payment of the final instalment of at least 20% will only be made after a positive final assessment. The balance will be distributed proportionally over other years. For the moment, an analysis by DG Energy concerns the various criteria as announced in the call. This analysis will be presented to a working group. That's what's happening now. The aim is to present the Royal Subsidy Order to the Council of Ministers as soon as possible. We've already received 20 million times twice. An expenditure of $15 million is planned for 2017. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic738x.u29	Madam Minister, my question was already somewhat outdated and that is why I asked you at the end of my question for the latest state of affairs. You gave it to me, too. It is good to note that projects have been effectively submitted. For the record, it's twenty-nine projects and not ninety-two?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic738x.u30	That's right. It's 29. I made a mistake, I reversed. Excuse me. Today, I don't have Dutch in my mouth. I'm so sorry.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic738x.u31	In the meantime, the advice has already arrived at your cabinet, properly in time. We hope that the projects can now be examined further and that a proposal can be put forward effectively in the Council of Ministers at the end of October. We are certainly looking forward to seeing what comes out of the bus. In any case, it is good that projects have already been submitted. We're looking forward to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic738x.u32	The analysis is under way. If I understood correctly, it is an analysis that is done by a working group.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic738x.u33	The analysis is done by the administration and presented to a working group.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic738x.u34	What about the working group?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic738x.u35	For now, it's all fresh. It just happened and I don't know where they are.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic738x.u36	Are these intercabinets?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic738x.u37	Yes, they say working group, but they're the IKW.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic738x.u38	It's the IKW. It's to understand the situation. So, you're going to spend, in 2017, $15 million. Is that it?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic738x.u39	I have the authority to spend $15 million in 2017.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic738x.u40	So, depending on the projects. You have 35 for the time being in the Fund.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic738x.u41	29!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic738x.u42	I'm not talking about plans. I'm talking about $35 million in the fund, but you can only spend $15 million.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic738x.u43	Yes, absolutely. We have two times 20 million, as I said, and we can spend 15 million this year. As the royal decree was published in May and launched in the middle of a year, the time to make the call, receive the projects, analyze them, etc., you already arrive at the end of the fiscal year.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic738x.u44	We agree, but according to your method of payment, for one year's projects, that's 80%. Therefore, this will obviously reduce eligible projects.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic738x.u45	It's already the financial discussion. I'm just talking about the timeline.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic738x.u46	We're in agreement. I'm talking about the timeline. When it is said that the payment terms are 80% the first year since they will be eligible in the first year 2017, you will have to pay 80% in 2017 even if there is only three months, and you will have to pay for the multi-annual 40%. This means that there will be few projects since there are only 15 million eligible for 2017. That's what I don't understand since, then, you'll have a surplus in 2018. I will ask you again about these financial arrangements. Only out of the 15 million, I do not understand because it will ensure that projects will not be eligible.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic738x.u47	Every year, we're going to re-launch a call for projects.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic738x.u48	Even, I think it's a little silly.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic738x.u49	I can't do anything else. It's a budget.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic738x.u50	It's not very effective, it seems to me.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic738x.u51	Mr President, Minister, your policy paper envisages the organisation of a CRM mechanism. Such a mechanism would replace a strategic reserve. You have been instructed to examine further the possibility of introducing such a capacity compensation mechanism in accordance with the provisions of the Government Agreement. A detailed opinion would be submitted to you before April 2017. On 11 August 2017, we learned through the press that you are indeed in favour of the introduction of such a capacity mechanism. As a result, we have a number of questions. Have you submitted a detailed opinion on the possibility of introducing such a capacity mechanism? If so, can you explain the opinion? If not, when will you then submit an opinion? The path to effective implementation of the mechanism is further explored. Can you clarify exactly who is conducting the investigation? What is the state of the investigation today? What's the further timing? Is consultation also taking place in the context of the investigation or looking at our neighbouring countries? If so, can you explain how they are consulted and what is the outcome of the consultation? Finally, is the study also taking into account the European Commission's guidelines?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic738x.u52	Mr President, Madam Minister, the press has told us that a public tender has been launched to study the compensation mechanism most suited to the Belgian context, and the legislative changes necessary for its implementation. You would have said that, I quote: "Personally, I have always thought that such a mechanism is necessary, even if I have not yet tested this option with the government. So I am continuing my work: I have asked for a study from DG Energy which has launched this public market to advance the reflection on a subject which is still very complicated." According to L'Echo, four offers have been returned and the consultant should be selected in the coming weeks. The Echo also reports that among the constraints imposed on it, the selected consultant will have to pay attention to the cost of this mechanism, to its impact on the market, to ensure that it is technologically neutral, that it does not "mine" the existing financial agreements taken by the government or that it is feasible from a practical point of view and compatible with European regulations. Minister, on what basis do you base the assertion that such a compensation mechanism is necessary? Could you give us the names of the bidders? Was a consultant selected? If so, can you let us know his name? Could you let us know when the results of this study are known? Will CREG be involved in this reflection?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic738x.u53	Mr. President, Minister, a call for tenders has been launched to examine the most appropriate compensation mechanism for the support of gas power plants. Some stakeholders wonder: "Wouldn't it be necessary first to do a study to see if such a mechanism would solve any of the problems," said Dieter Long, manager at Anode, a platform for electricity trading on Twitter. CREG had also expressed reservations in this regard. The newspaper L'Echo recalls that the European Commission itself did not hide its reluctance. Minister, what's the status of this case? What is the specific purpose of the invitation to tender? How many bids have you received? Which one was retained? On the more political side, when did you bring this discussion about such a mechanism within the government? What is the position of your partners in this regard? Is the government's position unanimous? Has a policy decision already been made at the government level? If so, what is it? If not, what is your timetable? What are the next steps and timetable?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic738x.u54	Mr Nollet, thank you for your conciseness.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic738x.u55	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in view of the large volume of capacity required after the nuclear phase-out, such as the study on the adequacy and flexibility carried out in April 2016 by Elia I have demonstrated, it seems prudent to me now to prepare for the possible implementation of a capacity mechanism. The recommendations of DG Energy, as set out in its note of 15 June 2016, made on the basis of a broad stakeholder consultation, already stressed the need for such a consultation. I asked my administration to launch a study to advance the reflection and help determine the most appropriate mechanism for Belgium. In view of the long preparation period, I also asked him to prepare the legislative package. I suggested that this study should cumulatively include the following four elements: 1. the current legal framework for the release of nuclear energy; 2. a reaffirmation of a specific capacity need in future studies on the assessment of flexibility needs; 3. a detailed economic analysis showing an increase in welfare for Belgium through the introduction of a market mechanism; 4. an agreement of the Energy Pact stakeholders on the implementation of a specific market mechanism. It goes without saying that a market mechanism can only be implemented after discussion by the government and notification to the European Commission. Four tenderers made an offer for the tender launched by the AD Energy at the end of June 2017. The tender shall consist of one parcel divided into two items. The first item concerns the determination of the most appropriate mechanism for Belgium. The second item concerns the preparation of the legislative package. For the two items, 60 calendar days shall be provided for each. Item 2 will start no later than six months after the delivery of item 1. The most appropriate mechanism will, of course, take into account studies already carried out by the CREG and other parties. The CREG and the other interested parties may also be included in the follow-up committee or be involved in the reflection through an interim consultation. The evaluation of the tenders received has meanwhile taken place and the name of the selected company will be communicated very shortly after the formal market allocation procedure has been completed. In determining the most appropriate mechanism, the study will consider both the cross-border impact of the introduction of the mechanism and compliance with the European guidelines. In the meantime, the evaluation of the offers has been carried out by the administration and the requested work will be entrusted to the PwC office of expertise in collaboration with the Janson Baugniet office of lawyers.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic738x.u56	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. So, if I understand correctly, is the tender still under way for carrying out the study? Tenders have been received, but it remains to be determined which study firm will carry out the study effectively? Or am I wrong? The exact timing for the result of that study is not really clear to me either. Perhaps you could clarify that further? In any case, it is a good thing that this is being studied. It is important to weigh everything down. 2025 is getting closer. If we really want a core exit, we must prepare it well and really look forward to an alternative. Pressure must be exerted. It is necessary that we do this preparation thoroughly but also quickly. The CRM can be a useful tool in this, but I think it is very important that we look at what the surrounding countries are doing. I am pleased to hear that this aspect will be included in the study. Perhaps you can clarify when this study will be carried out and when we can expect its results. That's not clear to me. Whether you give me that or afterwards, I don't care, but I'd like an answer to that.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic738x.u57	I'll say it later because I don't know the answer. This is a very long reflection, even if it seems essential. It's not everyone's opinion. It's very complicated, sophisticated. There is also the European Commission with other capacity mechanisms in other countries. So I'd rather step by step, cautiously. As soon as I know more or less when PwC has completed his study, I will be able to return to you, on the basis of your questions, to tell you more.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic738x.u58	Minister, thank you for your information. If I understand correctly, you'll get the answers soon enough. You did not answer my first question even though, indirectly, in your second speech, you have just made it clear that everyone is not of the same opinion. I asked you what was behind the assertion that such a capacity compensation mechanism is necessary. Either I've been very distracted, or you haven't answered that question. I thought I had that justification today. So I'll have to come back to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic738x.u59	It will be for a future debate. I need the study, a basis for a substantive debate on a capacity mechanism and its merits. I didn't say it indirectly. I have said that the large volume of capacity required after the nuclear phase-out, as reflected in Elia's study of adequacy and flexibility and which you know, leads me to believe that there is a need for a capacity mechanism. Not everyone has the same opinion. It's discussed. It therefore requires a technical basis, which has been entrusted to PwC and to Janson Baugniet, to discuss this subject in depth.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic738x.u60	So I'll wait until I know the basis of your decision and the government's position.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic738x.u61	Mr President, first of all I would like to thank the two colleagues who spoke before me. In view of the Minister's additional response, I have the impression that there is much greater caution in the second and third parts of the response than in the first part. In the first part, it was said; the minister was willing. In the second part of the answer, we feel that there is reluctance and that nothing is yet clear. The foundations are not specified. The Minister is waiting to have the study before she can see what the basis would be. She had a rather favorable a priori. There is no government position.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic738x.u62	I always said it.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic738x.u63	Yes, absolutely. Allow me, Madam Minister, to summarize, in my reply, the elements that seem to me to be politically important. I'm not saying you said otherwise. I'm just synthesizing politically.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic738x.u64	Please.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic738x.u65	There's no assault. There's nothing. At this point... So I continue by saying that, politically, there is currently no government decision. Of course, colleagues in the majority are not yet engaged. Anyway, we're not far yet. The next step will be the study. And at that time, the real debate will take place. Madam Minister, you are not responding to all the criticisms that have already been made, whether by CREG or other actors I referred to in this article in L'Echo. You'd rather wait. This position of prudence seems more appropriate to me than what appears in the first part of your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic738x.u66	Mr President, Madam Minister, the press on 6 July echoed the growing concern in government circles about the risk that we will not have a strategic reserve to cover a potential electricity shortage this winter in view of the lack of European validation of the mechanism and its financing. "It's a bomb," we hear. The system operator Elia had estimated the need at 900 MW for next winter, 150 MW more than last year. What exactly about this concern and the status of the case? Since the filing of my question, the matter has evolved as a result of the announcement of a Commission verdict by October 23. That said, we risk being very close to the final date for signing the contracts, which is 31 October. Minister, do you have any leads? For example, impose the price yourself? This concern is further reinforced by the fact that the press on 23 August reported that the CREG had refused the 9 candidates for the strategic reserve. Do you confirm this dual information, namely that there were 9 candidates and that all were refused? What are the reasons for these refusals? Later on, you talked about an agreement between the companies. Do you confirm these words, which are very heavy of meaning? This will be even more if you confirm in Parliament that Elia has taken you short by sending the letter of refusal of candidacy when you would have wanted to validate and/or negotiate a downside on-line.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic738x.u67	Madam Minister, according to the press, in its opinion, CREG considered that the nine offers that have been returned for the strategic electricity reserve for the next three winters are "manifestly unreasonable". As you know, the law provides that the government may impose until 31 October by royal decree a price on the various bidders concerned. As a reminder, Elia, the high-voltage system operator, had estimated at the end of 2016 that Belgium might need a reserve of 900 MW for next winter. A conservative estimate, which took into account the possible unavailability of a large part of the French nuclear fleet and of a Belgian reactor of 1000 MW throughout the winter. However, in the meantime, Engie Electrabel has given up closing its Drogenbos power plant. Minister, could you let us know the state of the negotiations with the European Commission on the strategic reserve? Will you only set the reserve for one year or do you retain the three-year mechanism? Taking into account the latest information on the electricity production stock, are you going to reduce the reserve volume? Will you act in a differentiated way for gas-fired power plants and demand management capabilities?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic738x.u68	Minister, I am not going to repeat what my predecessors have said and limit myself to going back to your statements in the press on 5 September. Indeed, you said that there was "a fragrance of understanding between these companies" in order to increase their prices, which are ultimately charged to consumers. Minister, this is a serious accusation of deceit towards the state and consumers. In this regard, I am surprised by your statement in the press. If you suspect an agreement between companies, is it not more appropriate to refer it to the Public Prosecutor's Office and the Autorité de la concurrence? If so, when did you do it? Could you please let us know on which facts this charge is based? Finally, will you impose a price on different companies to ensure that the strategic reserve is operational?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic738x.u69	Madam Minister, the context was well outlined by my fellow Members, and I will not repeat it, so I can move on to the questions, although many of them have already been asked by my fellow Members. Firstly, can you confirm that ENGIE provides for 300 megawatts of additional capacity by not closing a number of plants? If so, should the need for strategic reserves not be reduced? Secondly, according to an article in Le Soir of 7 September, Elia considered two gas plants, Vilvoorde and Seraing, and seven companies for the strategic reserves. Can you confirm that these are the tenders taken into account? Thirdly, the CREG has said that the price of these tenders is too high. What are the further steps in the procurement process for strategic reserves? What's the timeline? Fourthly, you would have instructed your administration and/or the Competition Authority to investigate whether there were price agreements, which is a serious charge. Is such an investigation being carried out effectively? As long as the investigation is under way, is the further procedure around the strategic reserves on hold? Finally, you would also ask your administration to give an opinion on the possibility of introducing capacity compensation mechanisms. Has this already happened? Could you make this study available to the committee? I think that this last question was largely answered by the previous questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic738x.u70	Mr President, let us take back the retroacts of this dossier. Each year, the strategic reserve requirement is assessed by Elia on the basis of probabilistic studies. More specifically, this organization realizes them a year in advance. Then these estimates are analyzed by CREG and my administration. At the end of this process, I take a royal order to set the strategic reserve for the following winter or winters. Considering the larger number of nuclear reactors shut down during last winter for safety and maintenance reasons in France, we had followed Elia's evaluation to announce a contract for the purchase of 900 MW. We decided for three years, saying that we would get – at least, we hoped, because of a longer duration – more favourable prices. To my surprise, that was not the case. I continue to develop the mechanics of the procedure, which you know as well as I do. Once the tender is launched, the proposals come back and their prices are reviewed by CREG. Indeed, this time – and it is quite exceptional, because I have never known this situation, for my part – that all the prizes awarded were manifestly unreasonable. I obviously asked the CREG about his reasoning and I therefore heard his explanations. I pointed out that it seemed to me that there existed as a fragrance of understanding between some offerers. The latter are divided into two categories: producers and demand managers. We're checking, Mrs. Temmerman, whether the information on the identity of the bidders you probably found in the press matches the background files. We'll send you the answer later. In all cases, there are two producers and seven demand managers. In my view, the fragrance of understanding (I am pleased that Ms. Lalieux specifically took up my remarks) reflected a mitigation of serious culprits of understanding that would distort the natural concordance between players in the market. As I make these comments, I am not yet at the stage where I consider that there is room for complaints to be lodged with the Public Prosecutor's Office or with the Autorité de la concurrence. However, the Commission has taken up the case itself and acts independently with regard to the analysis of the case and asks the CREG, under the confidentiality which is necessary, for the substantive file to enable it to assess the situation. Meanwhile, Elia communicated to the sector in August on the obvious unreasonableness of prices, but this communication does not hinder the process that I am pursuing. I have asked my administration to interact with all bidders in order to assess the possibilities and ensure that the proposed prices are calculated as closely as possible because my view is to say that it is out of the question of approaching winter without having formed a strategic reserve. In the meantime, as you know, the European Commission is properly analysing the matter. I have already had the opportunity to reiterate that it would have been beneficial to me if the strategic reserve mechanism were notified when it was voted in our legislative framework. I am doing so and, together with the Commission, we are continuing discussions on a number of issues, including this one, in anticipation of next winter. A small detail was raised by one of the stakeholders: Drogenbos returns to the market after Elia's probabilistic evaluation. The legal framework does not allow me to change flexibly according to who decides to apply to the strategic reserve - and therefore in the underlying way to announce its closure in the coming months - or who decides to try its luck in the market after many internal marketing studies at each company. But, in the discussion with the Commission, we will try to find a formula that will allow us to stick more to the evolution of our production stock according to who is in or out of the market. To be precise, Drogenbos, it's 230 MW. Together with the Commission, we will explain our strategic reserve needs, the various stakeholders and the legal framework to be respected. Since the Commission is a superior authority, we are going to act for the coming winter - which is the urgency of the moment -; perhaps not yet for the coming winters since a change in the legislative framework could take place. Depending on what the Commission will say, this framework will evolve. You will recall that I have already announced several times that a text is being prepared on the subject. I do not yet know what order will be the reserve to be set up for 2017-2018. It's possible it's less than 900 megawatts. It will certainly not be zero, even if it is also technically possible. I have told the European Commission that I do not intend to start or go through the winter without having built up a sufficient strategic reserve.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic738x.u71	Minister, I am beginning to see more clearly on some points. First, Elia took you short. You regret this, but it does not hinder your ability to act later. I take note of that. Second, you will be working on a decision that will only concern one year, when the appeal was made...
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic738x.u72	I already said it in the press.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic738x.u73	Madam Minister, I say that because sometimes you correct what is said in the press.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic738x.u74	That's right. This can happen. In July, I was less sure than now because we weren't as advanced. We answered a number of additional questions in August at the European Commission. So we're moving forward.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic738x.u75	Minister, once again, it was only an act of action of the elements that, politically, seemed important to me, in this case the fact that you were tilting three years over one year.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic738x.u76	It was just a precision.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic738x.u77	Thirdly, and it is less clear, I hear your willingness to have a reserve. You do not want to be zero and you bring it to the European level. However, the timetable is still very tight, since the deadline is 31 October. However, you do not announce a postponement of this deadline. You also do not inform us of the state of the negotiations, which is more worrying in itself. Will you make it through conventional negotiation? Or, in a position of decline, are you increasingly considering the idea of imposing the price if necessary? This question has not been answered. You do not give us anything that would allow us to understand the exact situation of the negotiations and your position of withdrawal.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic738x.u78	Thank you, Minister, for your answers. As far as the volume of the reserve is concerned, we shall paraphrase a known title from zero to infinity, if I understand correctly. Indeed, we do not have an answer at the moment. However, you have mentioned one element: Drogenbos is currently experiencing a new availability. Is the plant entering the market again?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic738x.u79	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic738x.u80	So that makes you a plus. I think we've already talked about it. So I'm waiting for October 31. This is the fateful date on which you will have to decide.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic738x.u81	I have understood the perfume of cartel; I think it is very good that the Autorité de la concurrence has taken this matter up on its own initiative. We know that there are few players on the market and that they talk a lot to each other. I sincerely believe that this strategic reserve is indispensable. Its height varies according to the production of the moment, but it is indispensable. It is so easy to form agreements between producers and between managers. The problem is next. With the Autorité de la concurrence, they work a little faster than before, but often, in any case, either positive or negative, it comes two or three years later, when the consumer and the state have paid, if there has actually been agreement. I hope they will work much faster on this issue. I heard you wanted a strategic reserve. This is the right path, but at some point, prices may have to be imposed. As I understand it, you have not yet decided to impose prices on the various producers and managers for this strategic reserve. It'll be October 31st. As I have told you, I am hearing of an amendment to the legislation. Your final winter as Minister of Energy, at least under this legislature, will be 2018-2019. If you really want to do something useful for the future, it is time to produce legislation that covers this reserve and agrees with the European Union. Perhaps the solution will be to impose prices, any liberal you are.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic738x.u82	I don't mind, you know!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic738x.u83	I fully agree with Mr Lalieux's conclusion. That is ultimately the only good long-term solution. Madam Minister, the problem is that winter is on the doorstep and there is still uncertainty. It is good that the investigation into competition is ongoing, but it will be winter and there is still a great deal of uncertainty. Everyone understands that price agreements have most likely been made. That's how people feel. That is why it might be better to impose prices on this. As you can see, the free market does not always work. Every now and then, the government has to intervene.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic738x.u84	Minister, the Prime Minister said in the newspaper L'Echo of 2 September last that the next major project of the federal government would be the implementation of the energy pact with the Regions. I would therefore like to take this oral question and ask you to take stock of this matter. Can you tell us what elements of method and content are the subject of an agreement between the federal government and the Regions? What are the points of disagreement? And what is the timing of the next steps? Finally, what do you think are the objectives that this pact must achieve? Are they the subject of an agreement?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic738x.u85	Mr President, Minister, a lot of questions have already been asked about the Energy Pact, because it continues to last, but we remain positive. We were therefore satisfied that the first steps had finally been taken, because from 3 May to 30 June, apparently a hundred energy players were consulted on the basis of a questionnaire. The Energy Ministers of the federal and regional governments have instructed the ENOVER Group with the various energy administrations to summarise the stakeholders' reactions and to submit a text by mid-September. That is the information we have at our disposal, which is why it seemed useful to ask a number of additional questions about how things are going. ENOVER would process the answers into a draft text by 8 September. Have you received a draft text? What are the next steps? When will further consultations take place? Will stakeholders still be able to comment afterwards, or will it remain in the course of completing the questionnaire and will they no longer be involved in it? The aim is also to organise a citizen consultation. How exactly will that work? When will it take place? How will citizens be able to participate in the development of the energy pact and the energy vision? Apparently, there would also be a calendar with dates to come up with an energy pact. Is this information correct? What are the different steps? What does the calendar look like and when can we expect the pact?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic738x.u86	Mr President, Minister, this question does indeed come back with the regularity of the clock. This energy pact should be ready by the end of 2017 if we are to be able to start the core exit in good time. I really hope you hold on to this timing. Based on what was in the newspaper De Morgen of 26 September, this is not at all certain. It said: "For three years, Flanders, together with the other governments in this country, has been promising to conclude a global climate and energy pact. For the time being, no results. Now the deadline is at the end of this year. Questioning, however, shows that there is a further delay until March 2018.' However, as my fellow Members have already pointed out, on Wednesday, 26 April, you and your regional energy colleagues agreed to develop a working method that would result in the energy pact being implemented before the end of this year. On your website you can read that the effect would be based on a consultation in two stages. A number of questions have already been asked about this. The survey of stakeholders took place in the months of May and June. The results would be combined. The text would be submitted in mid-September. My questions on this are as follows. Can you formally deny that there is a further delay until March 2018? ENOVER had to draw up a text on this issue. Was this submitted in the meantime? Will the text also be forwarded to the members of this committee? When could this happen? Can we, the members of the Business Commission, also get the questions and answers of the stakeholder survey, on which the summary is based? Can you explain more about the proposed citizen survey, as well as the subsequent steps? Will the Energy Pact be purely about electricity or also about emissions from other sectors?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic738x.u87	Dear colleagues, through your questions, you are retracing the retroacts of the energy pact to date and those expected by the end of the year. So I won't come back. I would simply say that this energy pact is governed by three fundamental elements, namely security of supply, the reduction of greenhouse gases in relation to our European and international commitments and also the clean and environmentally friendly nature of energy production, in relation to our environmental objectives and the affordability of energy in relation to all citizens. The four ministers who have met to ask the questions are not the four ministers who are currently meeting to receive the answers that were made by all the stakeholders and aggregated in a document by CONCERE-ENOVER that we have received. The aggregation that has been made by this platform that brings together our energy administrations is a dynamic document that does not systematically capture the answers to each question, but presents them in readable and dynamic content. This is the basis of the work we had previously done between ministers and our collaborators. We are now at the stage where I have issued invitations to reinvigorate the operation between ministers, while our collaborators have already begun to work. In the coming days, the ministers will sit around the table, first to take note of the answers that have been made and to examine the arbitrations that need to be done so that we can reach an agreement. The framework of our journey – we have decided so – must end at the end of this year. By the end of the year, we should have a text that would circulate in our respective governments before being communicated to the general public via an interactive site. I don't know where you went fishing this information. You read it in the press, Madame Temmerman, since I read this in L'Echo: "Navraag leert dat er weer uitstel op komst is, tot maart 2018."
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic738x.u88	It's not L'Echo, minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic738x.u89	Sorry, wasn't it in L'Echo? It's in De Morgen. Excuse me, I didn't mean to...
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic738x.u90	September 26th.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic738x.u91	I'm just repeating what you read yourself... I've been imprecise about the source. I apologise! Our goal is not March 2018. It was decided that it would be December 2017. We're doing everything we can to get there. But if we can't do this, because we still have to consult the public and the arbitrations have been longer than expected, we will say. The opposition will then do what it sees fit to do, in accordance with its role, but the idea is still to achieve what has never been achieved for many years, since the 2003 law aimed at an exit from nuclear power by 2025 at the latest. The institutions with which I work provide me with many technical studies. I'll talk to my colleagues about them. You have goals with which we all agree, but there is a way to go. It can be described in terms of facilities and energy production that maintain prices at affordable levels, but it is difficult to estimate it by 2030 or 2050. You'll agree. On the other hand, as for the production and cleanliness of this production, choices can be made, but they must be made based on the power and the need for funds for which I am almost a central adjustment variable with my federal security of supply expertise. That is what we are currently preparing for discussion with my colleagues. I believe I have already communicated the time when you will be able to read the questions that will be asked. But as to what answers will be given and how the DGs gathered in the CONCERE platform will aggregate them, I will first ask my colleagues if this seems to them to be possible. If so, I will do so even before the next committee. As far as the Pact is concerned, we really want to achieve it and move in line with those three fundamental pillars that I have just recalled.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic738x.u92	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. That said, if I understood correctly, at the end of 2017, you should be in possession of a text approved by the four governments, which will then be submitted to the public via your site. Moreover, at this stage, all arbitrations still have to take place. So you'll have to meet about every week.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic738x.u93	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic738x.u94	The pace will be sustained, if the will exists to keep to the timing that has been set. I hope, moreover, that the latter will be respected, because we have been waiting since 2015. Moreover, if I have understood you correctly, the objectives of the pact are shared and quantified by all; unless this is part of the "great negotiation".
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic738x.u95	As far as quantification is concerned, everyone has something to contribute according to their skills. For my part, I have a lot of background in this matter. But we will have discussions on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic738x.u96	Everything remains to be done. It is true that this is a huge project.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic738x.u97	Quantification is done. Everyone knows – in any case I hope – more or less where he is.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic738x.u98	I hope so too!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic738x.u99	As far as I'm concerned, I know. You can be assured of that.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic738x.u100	In any case, you have a lot of work to do. Indeed, you have about two and a half months left before Christmas.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic738x.u101	Madam Minister, I am reassured on one point, in particular that the will to achieve an energy pact still exists; you have confirmed that. However, I am not reassured by the way in which you intend to reach that energy pact. A questionnaire has been sent to stakeholders. Their answers were bundled together. Invitations were sent to the ministers. After all, it is your wish to come together with the ministers. I think this is a good idea. Apparently, there's a plan to get everything done by the end of this year. Once there is this pact, it must be presented to the people. At the end of this year, therefore, you hope to have a text and only then will there be a referendum. However, I believe that it was the intention to achieve a vision and a pact together. I thought you and I were gonna find a place to support each other. It therefore seems essential to me that this should be done in advance. How will the population be involved? How will this referendum take place? Is there going to be another public investigation? Does every citizen get a say in this? If I understand you correctly, this will not happen until next year. You say that the stakeholders were involved in the process. They were indeed allowed to fill in a questionnaire. However, in order to achieve a real pact, one must sit around the table with the stakeholders to try to write that pact together with them. That is something completely different from answers to questions that are being asked. I therefore hope that they will still be involved in the process and that their participation will not end with just that questionnaire. How will Parliament be involved in all this? Will it be limited to an ex post acquaintance? I believe that we can also have some input. I would also like to express the following concerns. I believe that we should also draw up a climate plan for the European Commission. I think there are links between an energy pact and a climate plan. I've asked a lot of questions, but I still have a lot of questions to ask. It is a good thing that we are working on an energy pact, but I am concerned about the road ahead.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic738x.u102	Madam Secretary, thank you for your answer, although it was not immediately reassuring. The only reassuring thing is that you are still full of good will to achieve this within the right timeframe, but if we are realistic, this is practically impossible. I also thought that citizens would be consulted before it was fully completed. You will then propose something that was approved by all governments, and the referendum after that will not be a referendum, but a popular announcement. It will be said: so and so we shall do. However, there must be broad support for such matters, which can only be achieved through participatory action. It was also not very participatory among stakeholders, in the sense that a questionnaire was being completed that is now being summarised, and on the basis of which decisions will be made. I understand very well that this is not an obvious matter. It is very difficult in our country to achieve a single energy pact with the various governments, which is not an obvious task. I fear that we will be too late again, including as far as Europe is concerned, and that we will certainly not be able to meet this timetable.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic738x.u103	Minister, the government agreement calls for an energy standard. In terms of purchasing power and competitiveness, it is necessary to ensure that businesses and households pay the right price for energy consumed and related utilities. However, it is essential to avoid an increase in the bill for residential consumers and SMEs in order to reduce the bill for large industries. For this reason, we must not do what has been done in Germany for example, i.e. reduce the bill of large companies and increase the bill of all consumers and SMEs. I don't think it's a good model. Minister, have you taken any concrete steps to put this energy standard in place? Do you still intend to impose an energy standard? Of course, we can change our mind. If so, what are your plans for the coming months? Can you assure us that this energy standard will not have the effect of reducing the aid granted via social tariffs or increasing the bill of residential consumers? You know that there is a direct impact of the energy standard on social tariffs, we have already talked about it.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic738x.u104	Madam Member, with a view to respecting the government agreement and in accordance with the decision of the Council of Ministers of 23 March 2017, I have asked CREG to formulate concrete proposals for adapting the offshore overload of the federal contribution and transport tariffs so as not to jeopardise the competitive position of electro-intensive end customers and SMEs, and to preserve the purchasing power of households without any additional cost to the state budget. In other words, it's triangulation of the circle, but it's the government's decision. The CREG has commissioned the PWC office of expertise to quantify the impact of these various reforms and carry out various simulations based on what is happening in our neighbours. With regard to the reduction of transport tariffs, it should be mentioned that implementation will have to be carried out in accordance with the exclusive powers of the national regulator with regard to pricing. Therefore, as a first step, I shall confine myself to a reform of the degression mechanism in force at the level of offshore overload and the federal electricity levy. The results are still being analysed but require some additional details and simulations to measure the impact of adapting the system to all our companies. I am determined not to receive aid through social tariffs and to preserve the purchasing power of households, in accordance with the decision on the Council of Ministers referred to above. I would add that I had an exchange on degression with the European Commission. It continues its course and obviously has an impact on my work.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic738x.u105	Madam Minister, thank you. If I understand correctly, you're waiting for the CREG study. Is there a timing for this study? In parallel, you are working on the degression mechanism. Do you work in parallel with the study of CREG or do you expect this study to work normally?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic738x.u106	In this context, I am working with the expertise of CREG, in parallel to this.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic738x.u107	At the same time, but the overall study has not yet come out.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic738x.u108	No, CREG just commissioned the office of expertise.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic738x.u109	So you are moving in parallel on both things. I'll come back to the subject. It is indeed complicated to guarantee all the criteria that you have set out, but which are essential for both consumers and our economy.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic738x.u110	Mr President, Madam Minister, contrary to the situation for Category A waste, an institutional policy on the long-term management of the most radioactive Category B and C waste has yet to be put in place. In this regard, the government agreement states that "the government will take national policy measures for the management of categories B and C nuclear waste. An extensive participatory process will be put in place and compensation will be granted for the municipalities that will receive such waste." I would like to know what progress has been made in the long-term management of waste B and C? What decisions have been taken at this stage? Have you submitted any proposals to the Council of Ministers? The case is old, but it is time for Belgium to take a position on a plan for nuclear waste.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic738x.u111	Mr President, Minister, in May 2015, ONDRAF sent you its proposal for the storage of nuclear waste, as it had already done in 2011 following its waste plan. On 7 November 2016, you asked ONDRAF to review its policy proposal for waste B and C, so that it no longer includes predefined choices of type of geological layer for the reception of such waste. It was only on 17 March that you received a response when the ONDRAF Board took a stand at its meeting on 16 December. There are deadlines that are sometimes incomprehensible! In this "response", four months later, ONDRAF simply asked you to justify your request for accommodation further. I was already questioning you on April 18th about the follow-up and at that time you announced that you would still meet with Minister Peeters to give the necessary follow-up to this matter. During our exchange of 13 June, even too and I repeat your words: "Multiple contacts of which several working meetings took place in a constructive dynamic". You also told me that you would not fail to send me copies of the answers that would ultimately be sent. Having still received nothing, I will come back to ask you for these copies and to re-do with you the topo on this important file. What is the official status of this case, seven months after the ONDRAF mail? What's the status of your discussions with ONDRAF and its new boss? Did you respond to the ONDRAF? When was your answer? And above all, what is its content? What are the next steps in the file and on what schedule?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic738x.u112	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to say - and you are well aware of this - that these are very long-term dossiers, on which it is necessary to "swirl slowly". This does not mean that we fall asleep on the way, but that we are trying to make the right decisions that will lead to a distant future. As far as waste strategy B and C is concerned, the first step was, I would remind you, to draw up a strategic scoreboard on waste management. It was developed in the national programme for the management of spent fuel and radioactive waste. This is an update of the current situation. The national policy for the management of high-level and long-lived nuclear waste will be laid down in a royal decree which will be deliberated in the Council of Ministers, after the advice of the competent safety authority. As part of their respective prerogatives, ONDRAF and AFCN are therefore working together to determine how the federal authority will store these long-lived radioactive wastes. You asked me about it last June. I would prefer that technicians perform their duties properly before this issue comes to the government table, so that the most appropriate decisions can be made. It should be noted that a transfer of authority took place in May. The director of ONDRAF, who has been in place for many years, has given way to his successor, with whom we are beginning to work. Even if the latter already sat in the institution, he must be aware at the highest level of the implications of the case. In June, several working meetings were held in a constructive dynamic between the supervisory offices - Kris Peeters and mine - and ONDRAF. Several more took place during the summer. The dialogue remains constructive. I would like to remind you that our 2016 request concerned both the need for ONDRAF to prepare a national geological storage policy, without indicating the type of rock at this stage, and the methodological request for an appropriate step-by-step decision-making phase. I repeat, it is important to make the decisions that can be made today, as much as to know what the next steps will be to the final decision - even if it takes decades. Several definitional issues arose, for example, during interactions with ONDRAF. The decision for long-term projects such as those whose construction and operationalization are not planned before 2040 to 2045 and for the end, around 2100 and 2120, according to current estimates, can only be taken in stages and certainly not lightly. The surface final storage project also requires several decision-making steps that have been taken. As soon as a new policy proposal is forwarded to me by ONDRAF, which is not yet the case, I will study the options in collaboration with the minister who has the economy in his responsibilities. In the event of a positive outcome, the process of government interaction will begin. So that means that I still have some for a while and I don't know how much. I know the work is going on. You can see that there are very regular meetings, even during the summer months. This was made necessary by the presence of the new management to contact and work together on the file. I know that this is a pregnant question that comes back regularly and it is legitimate for her to come back but, at the same time, I really do not want to be wrong, knowing that I am committing for several decades from the moment when we make the decision. I will come back to you when the process allows me to present a case to the government and the government has agreed to the proposal for a decision that I will make to it, that is, in several weeks or months.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic738x.u113	Madam Minister, thank you. It is true that it is a case, it has been recalled, which has been going on since legislatures and the various governments have chosen not to decide, except that this matter is important. Not only is waste accumulating without being able to make a final decision, but we are also, I hope, moving towards the dismantling of nuclear power plants, which means that there will be waste there again. So I understand prudence. I understand the difficulty of saying "where to put this waste and how?" We're making decisions for the next hundreds of years, but I think it's high time the government finally made a decision and its responsibilities and relied on experts. I could not say which is the best decision; I am not an expert. We need at some point the courage to make a decision to manage these nuclear wastes because they must be managed and our country is lagging behind in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic738x.u114	Mr President, this is obviously an important issue, which is taking place for thousands of years. Minister, we have already talked about this in the past. Just as you are taking time, I can only invite you to deepen the reflection, to widen it beyond the question of the rock that could or could not accommodate, nuclear waste, but also on the basic options. In any case, since 2011, this case, which was considered by ONDRAF to be extremely urgent, has still not been answered. I can only invite you to really carry out a complete reflection, not just a partial reflection. It would be a shame to have to do it again later. For the rest, I'll come back to you. You know that, on a regular basis, we are asking you about this. To use the formula you used at the end of your answer: I will return to you in several weeks or/and months.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic738x.u115	Mr President, Madam Minister, with the gradual cessation of imports of Dutch gas, a million and a half Belgian households will have to switch to H gas, a richer gas. This is a huge logistical challenge because it is not only necessary to adapt the transport and distribution infrastructure, which is a shared competence, but also to have checked the compatibility of the facilities of the enterprises and especially of the households served by these networks. I'd like to know what's going on with this project. In Le Soir of today, we are talking about Community tensions about the release of L gas. It is true that this mainly concerns Flemish and Brussels households and that in Brussels several elements have already been endorsed by the distributor, the network manager, about the adaptation of his own network and the cost of it. What will the federal government do about this? Who will be responsible for financing the conversion to this L gas into H gas? What is the division of roles between federal and regional? I have my little idea, but I'd like to hear from you about it. Finally, what will be the cost to the consumer, even if it has already been assessed by the Regions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic738x.u116	Madam Minister, this question concerns the federal fund to be created to finance the conversion of low to high-caloric gas. That was incorporated into the federal government agreement. It also states that the government will establish an optimal financing and calendar. Unfortunately, we can only conclude that this fund is still not there at the moment, to the great frustration and anger of your colleague, Minister Tommelein. Yesterday there was apparently a press presentation of the changeover and of the changes to be made to the network. In the press today we could read that Minister Tommelein sent his cat; he did not wish to be present because there is still no federal fund. Meanwhile, the distribution system operators have started to complete the necessary preparations in time for the changeover to take place. When will this fund, as provided for in the federal government agreement, finally be set up? What will the optimal funding and the calendar look like? Can you tell me how much money is needed to finance the changeover? The distribution system operators may need to borrow to finance the preparatory works of the changeover. Will any interest charges also be financed from the Federal Fund?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic738x.u117	Dear colleagues, my answer will be lengthy because of its very technical nature. This is a vast operation because, at the origin of this conversion, there is an exogenous element that is imposed on us by the decision of the Netherlands to phase out gas exports by 2030. To deal with this, an indicative conversion schedule has been established, with the operation scheduled to start in 2018 and close in 2029. This planning enabled the cost of conversion to be determined, i.e. to estimate "approximately" the costs that would be required for the conversion of low-calorific natural gas to high-calorific gas. The conversion of a low-calorific gas to a high-calorific gas is a complex process in which several actors have a role to play. The distinction must be made between different actions. First, system operators (GRDs) need to adapt and adapt their infrastructure to transport and distribute gas. Secondly, the supply pressure for residential end-users (the consumer whether residential, citizen or SME) will have to be adjusted by the system operators, which in some cases will require intervention by the user, which is the responsibility of the DSOs. The investment costs for the adaptation of transmission and distribution networks for this conversion fall within the competence of each system operator under the supervision of the regulators. Regulators are involved in the manoeuvre and monitor that the cost limits are not exceeded for users who, in the current state of federal and regional legislation, are at the expense of end-users' tariffs. Thus, the transport and distribution components will be charged the costs necessary for this conversion, which will be reflected in end-user tariffs but which, in fact, are already in some way under the control of the regulators in its tariffs. As a result, this will not change much for the consumer, I was told! The cost associated with these adaptations was estimated by the Federation of Electricity and Gas Operators in Belgium (Synergrid) to be approximately EUR 250 million, EUR 50 million for the transmission network and EUR 200 million for distribution networks; For end-users, as part of the operation, verification of all relevant devices should be carried out as a precaution. As we did yesterday in the information campaign, we will encourage users to have their devices checked in anticipation of future changes and the funding associated with management. The information was launched yesterday. Final customers must be able to burn two types of gas, including, in processing, high-calorific gas. For example, users who have a boiler before 1978 will have to change it because it will not be able to burn high-calorific gas. On the other hand, appliances dated after 1978 can generally burn rich gas. This verification shall determine whether the devices are set according to their category. Adjustments must be made and some will be necessary. Through this communication, the Federal and the Regions take responsibility for having the necessary legislation to impose a periodic technical inspection of boilers, of the energy performance of buildings. At the level of the Walloon and Brussels regions, according to what I heard yesterday, these laws exist. It would be in preparation in Flanders. Regional legislation must therefore be complementary, with the aim of proceeding simultaneously. The Regions can do this. This is very important, because the gas is transported first by the TSO. When it arrives, it must be implemented on the territory, through the distribution networks, to the users. It is important that all of this take place at the same time, so that user checks and related costs are liquidated at the time of processing. The possible replacement costs behind the meter are obviously borne by the owners of the devices. What is the division of roles between the federal and the regions? It comes from all the institutional reforms that this country has undergone. The bulk of the impact of the conversion of the gas supply network L is at the level of public distribution, which is a regional competence. The regions are responsible for public distribution, distribution network tariffs and environmental protection. The federal government is responsible for the country's security of supply, transportation facilities, Fluxys, labour protection and consumer protection. There is no legal or regulatory provision requiring the federal government to take specific measures in the context of the conversion of L-gas to H-gas towards network users. However, the federal state is acting under the precautionary principle and is taking appropriate measures to inform the population of this conversion of L-gas to H-gas and the associated risks, hence yesterday's information conference. Within the framework of the first two jurisdictions, namely the country's security of supply and transportation facilities, the federal state ensures that the necessary adjustments to the Fluxys transport network are made, and that the conversion facilities are maintained in order to ensure security of supply. Under the precautionary principle, the communication campaign has been launched for network users, employers and technicians affected by conversion, and is led by the federal and regional governments. These entities are a common foundation, including an information website that you were able to discover by the press yesterday and today. This campaign provides general information on conversion. Reference is made to regional sites because information already exists at the regional level. The current obligations of end-users and employers are sensitized, and instructions are given for technicians in charge of device verification. The big question that you asked, and everyone asks, is who will ultimately be responsible for the funding. In my view, the Flemish regional minister has somewhat confused the stages. Yesterday was the time for information, not the time for discussion of funding. Mrs Dierick is talking about a federal fund. It's not a federal fund. It's a national fund. There is a small distinction, which the negotiators of the government agreement did not perceive, through the institutional evolution of our country. At the time when the government agreement was in place and a national fund was being mentioned, the sixth reform of the state was being implemented and was going to distribute in a new way, as I have just pointed out, the competences between the federal and the regions, between the national transport network and the regional distribution networks. This shade is still of size. In the case of a national fund, federated entities are obviously included in the discussion, but each acts according to its scope of competence. The various decisions taken to create the national fund must be made by the four entities. The terms and conditions of this fund depend on these four entities, but the financing itself is linked to the distribution of competences between the transmission network and the distribution networks. We had a consultation committee on September 6, 2017, which mandated the federal government to initiate a consultation on the creation of the national fund provided for in the federal government agreement. I am not going to invent what is in the government agreement, since it is a question of national funds. I am launching negotiations to that end. I repeated it well yesterday, along, wide and across, this national fund will have to respect the rules for the division of powers between the federal and the regions. In this case, the allocation of revenue must respect the material and territorial powers of each level of power. Revenues of one level of authority may not be allocated to expenditure of another level of authority. That was already in my general policy paper of 27 October 2016, which was approved by the majority. The application of this principle means that revenue from one Region cannot be allocated to expenditure related to the conversion of the distribution network of another Region or the transmission network. Similarly, federal revenues cannot be allocated to expenditures related to the conversion of distribution networks. I've already said it, but I'm saying it again, because it's very important. As far as Mrs Dierick's specific question is concerned, the application of this principle also means that I do not have the power to charge interest on a loan from a distribution system operator. I also know that it cannot be financed with federal money. What will be the cost to the consumer? I have to repeat myself. Since there are no cadastres for devices installed in all consumers, a precise calculation of the costs of verification and possible replacement of devices charged to end-users is difficult to achieve. This is therefore an estimate made by Synergrid in its first intention for a budget of around EUR 250 million. This is an overall assessment for all aircraft located on the territory of the regions concerned. As previously stated, if it is possible to consolidate the already mandatory regional controls with the recommended verification in the context of conversion, the costs could be streamlined. Instead of going to the same person several times, we could organize ourselves to come only once and carry out all the checks at the same time. But that depends on the decretal legislation. Without prejudice to the consultation on the creation of a national fund, federal and regional authorities are working with network managers and other stakeholders in the sector to develop a coordinated approach. To sum up, this is done on several levels. Not everyone is concerned in Belgium, even if there are 1.5 million connections. It would be good to go to the users once to check the conversion devices at the same time as the boilers and any other apparatus that uses the gas and should be brought up to standards. My answer was long but necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic738x.u118	Madam Minister, I fully share your vision of things and Flanders should share it as well, since it has been repeating it for years: each has its own skills and each has its own funding! The government statement referred to the creation of a fund, but I don't see why you would create a fund. You have shown here all the absurdity of such a fund since each one is competent of his or her DRM. You're going to finance the transport, the TSO. In addition, the Walloon and Brussels Regions have already done work for the GRD, which is reflected in the note of the Walloon and Brussels consumers. Flanders must follow this logic. It is up to the Commission to organise, as you say, a system which is as coherent as possible for final consumers who, if necessary, have to change their boiler. In my opinion, this is useless work. You have many consultations to establish on the subject of energy. We've already talked a lot about it. I think the Brussels Region and Wallonia will support you. However, if you could convince Flanders not to set up a fund, but to confine itself to its skills and its method of financing, it would save time.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic738x.u119	Madam Secretary, thank you for your very comprehensive reply. I also apologize for the wrong use of words. It is a national fund that needs to be set up. In your reply, you explained very clearly the different powers of you and of the various other ministers. That is all true, but it is a fact that the government agreement states that a national fund must be set up. The creation of this fund requires cooperation. I was naive. After all, I was of the opinion that, since it was two energy ministers of the blue family, it would be easier to consult. Apparently, however, there's a hair in the butter. If I read today's press, I can see that Minister Tommelein is still waiting for an invitation from Mrs Marghem. I would therefore ask you to stop this episode, to call your colleague and to ensure that there is a consultation so that the discussion is finally over. It costs a lot of money. Just try to come up with an arrangement where everyone feels good and is honest. The file is within one family. So take your phone and make sure you sit down at the table for a dialogue.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic738x.u120	I propose my services as a mediator, if you wish, Mrs. Dierick.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic738x.u121	Mr. President, Mrs. Dierick, I took my gsm. Everyone agrees on their statements. A date has already been set.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic738x.u122	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic738x.u123	I do not object to him being a mediator.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic738x.u124	All right. Let's do this. Seriously!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic738x.u125	I'll talk to my colleagues. Mr. President, may I ask you for a little medical break, please?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic738x.u126	What time do you have to leave?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic738x.u127	I'd rather get rid of all the questions today.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic738x.u128	I therefore grant you the medical break and we will continue afterwards.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic738x.u129	I do not see Mr Gilkinet for his question No 20435, nor Mr Gilkinet for his question No 20435. Van Hees for his questions Nos 20458 and 20459.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic738x.u130	Mr Calvo is absent on his question No 20517.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic738x.u131	The July 6 press reported that there was no agreement within the government on the North Sea wind farm support system. In the article of the newspaper L'Echo, it is stated, at that time, that you would have proposed to negotiate with the owners of the last three parks on the basis of a range between 66 and 76 euros per MWh, including electricity prices. Do you confirm this information? Does your colleague De Backer still threaten to cancel the concessions and relaunch an international tender? This morning, I read in the press always well informed, that we have still not been able to land on this file but that your hope is to achieve it before the end of the month. However, you were mandated to finish this in September. Operators are worried and impatient. Time is running out and we are still waiting for a decision from the government. What's the status of this case? What is the content of what is on the table? When will the government make a final decision on this matter? I had tabled these questions in July. I read you're determined. I would therefore like to hear the specifics of this determination on offshore wind. It's kind of the government's mantra, isn't it? Charles Michel says "I'm determined," you say it now too. Be specific.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic738x.u132	Thank you, Mr. Nollet. You know that the minister is still determined... Mrs. Lalieux, it's yours.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic738x.u133	Thank you, Mr. President. The retroacts were recalled. The Council of Ministers of September 8 mandated you with Secretary of State for the North Sea, Philippe De Backer, to negotiate with the dealers of the next three wind farms in order to reduce subsidies. A report to the Council of Ministers was due on 22 September, if we are well informed. But I don't think it happened; you'll tell me. So, what is the outcome of your negotiations? What is the content of the report to the Council of Ministers if it has taken place? And what are the next steps?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic738x.u134	Mrs Lalieux, you must know that the Secretary of State and I have both been mandated. But, first of all, I will go back a little further in time, evoking an important retroact. In July, almost at the end of government work, the situation was blocked. We had submitted proposals for negotiations. Because of their radical nature, the statements of the Secretary of State for the North Sea had frightened or, at least, upset the owners of the parks. We had to go back to things. The summer was conducive to calm and appeasement. Everybody's rested. Then we decided to resume the negotiations. The Secretary of State for the North Sea and I were given a mandate to do so, so we could come back to the government. Of course, we try to work as quickly as possible, but we find ourselves in an exchange of incredible technical sophistication. Our intention is to build these parks by 2020, so that the federal government will honour its European obligations in terms of percentage renewables, which are linked to the 2015 burden sharing agreement. Belgian companies have obtained concessions, as you know. That's the general trend. We are, of course, continuing the negotiations in the range you have cited in trying to bring the parks closer to them. Each of us is working with our technicians to that end. My colleague and I use federal services, while parks use their own studies. Moreover, this type of negotiation requires agreement on the terms used. What does that mean technically for the one I have in front of me to talk about full hours or negative hours, etc.- Is that what you're saying? That kind of clarification needs to be exchanged, and it is at this point in the negotiation that we are in. I am obviously not going to negotiate in Parliament, in the press or on a television set. I therefore hope that this negotiation will be concluded quickly.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic738x.u135	I understand that you do not negotiate any way, but have you already reported to the government on the state of the situation?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic738x.u136	I'm doing it incessantly. We didn't do it on the 22nd. It was not possible to do so on the 22nd, because there were international obligations for several weeks, and as a result, the government held at other times. We have chosen to report on this Friday. There's about a dozen days off because there's been Tallinn and New York!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic738x.u137	Mr. Chair, thank you, but we will be waiting for the report to the government. We will consult the press and come back. It is time to allocate these parks so that by 2020 we can meet the 2,200 megawatts.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic738x.u138	Questions No 20793 by Mrs Len Dierick and No 20917 by Mrs Karin Temmerman are transformed into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic738x.u139	Minister, you are aware that I am interested in the work of the LWG to correct the shortcomings of current legislation, particularly in the management of radioactive waste. I have already asked you many times about specific points of this work in the context of written questions. In response to my written question No. 481, you regretted with me that the work was not moving forward as quickly as initially requested, and you explained to me that a common vision had been defined for about ten working papers that were to serve as the basis for the drafting of the first report of the OWG. In terms of the time frame for the submission of this report, you had set the October 2017 target. Minister, where are we now? Is the report accessible? What are the topics covered in this first report? What are the proposals that emerge from this? What are the themes referred to in the next report? What is the time frame for the next report? I would therefore like to take stock of a case which has already taken us very seriously.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic738x.u140	Dear colleague, the Council of Ministers of 18 November 2016 decided to create a task force to respond to the seventh recommendation made by the IRRS mission led by the International Atomic Energy Agency in Belgium in December 2013. The objective was to prepare a report of proposals to implement this recommendation with a view to clearly distinguishing the roles of ONDRAF and AFCN. The main areas of shadow or missing elements were examined in order to define more clearly the respective competencies and responsibilities of the AFCN and ONDRAF. Proposals for improvements were made and particular attention was paid to not repeating the work done under the LWG. The Council of Ministers of 20 July 2017 took note of these proposals for improvements concerning the seventh recommendation. It should be noted that the economic dimensions of the proposals identified by this Task Force will need to be further discussed with the Energy Administration, in agreement with and consistent with the work of the LWG. Given the government's priority in responding to this recommendation, you will understand that the legislative working group, also composed of ONDRAF, has had to slow down the pace of its work in order to allow some of its members the time to take part in the discussions on the implementation of this international recommendation. The work resumed at the end of September, resulting in a delay of several months for the completion of their first report, which, as soon as it is available, will allow me to answer your questions later.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic738x.u141	Minister, what is the new deadline? It was scheduled for October. Will the delay be six months as before?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic738x.u142	You're vais me renseigner.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic738x.u143	Could you give me the answer? These are important issues. It is a question of determining the legislative framework within which we will have the guarantee that, whatever the evolution of the various actors, there will be sufficient funding in the nuclear supply fund, even if the Bianca plan were to be implemented. You agreed with me that it was important to strengthen the legislative framework. There was the LWG, the working group that was in place and, normally, it should have been completed long before. I fear – and that is why the issue of the agenda is extremely important – that we will be out of time at the end of the legislature. It would obviously be problematic for the Belgian state as a whole – I am not just talking about the government – not to have strengthened the framework. It is indeed necessary to have a much stronger legislative framework – this was already pointed out since 2013 in the first ONDRAF report and was confirmed in 2016 – to be sure that there is no funding gap, in particular. This is one of the dimensions of the GTL, but there are many others. I'm not doing everything in detail here. Could you ask your collaborator to send me the deadline so that I can come back to you at that time?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic738x.u144	Minister, what are the results of the meeting held by the Energy Ministers of the European Union in Luxembourg at the end of June? He said that, while the European Parliament had advocated energy savings targets of up to 40% by 2030, ministers had limited themselves to a target of less than 30%. How can we explain such a lack of ambition in the face of the challenge of climate change? What initial position has Belgium taken in this respect? My question is specific here. This was in the wording of my written question. I want to know what Belgium has been defending from the start. Of course, you accepted the final agreement, but I would like to know what Belgium's initial position was: was it 40% or something else? As far as the charging points for electric cars are concerned, the dispatch indicates that, while the Commission had set up more than 3 million charging sites, the criteria adopted by the ministers would ultimately be around 115 000 sites. How did we get to that? What initial position has Belgium taken in this respect? Did Belgium agree with this clear decline, which Commissioner Cañete described as a "very bad signal"?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic738x.u145	My colleague, the impact assessment of the European Commission has revealed that a higher level of energy efficiency in 2030 will have a positive impact on economic growth, employment, competitiveness and security of supply. This is why the 30% target was preferred to the 27% target. However, it appears that the cost of achieving an energy saving of more than 30% is increasing significantly. Therefore, the European Commission has presented Member States with an energy saving of 30% by 2030 as the most cost-effective option. During the Energy Council in June, a comprehensive approach to the Energy Efficiency Directive was reached, after a long consultation, without Bulgaria and Slovenia, which abstained, and without Hungary, Slovakia, Poland, Latvia, Romania and the United Kingdom, which failed to reach an agreement. The target of 30% was taken up without any additional provision concerning the nature of the objective. Long-term measures and renewable energy for clean use up to 30% were included in the compromise. However, these two flexibility measures cannot, together with two other provisions of the fabulous Article 7 – which is of unlikely complexity – exceed the 35 % ceiling. After consultation with the regional ministers – I even phoned my colleagues – Belgium...
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic738x.u146	Without a mediator?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic738x.u147	Yes, but I didn't know the existence of a mediator yet. From now on, I will also call the Ombudsman first of all. I'm going on. Belgium has attached itself to the so-called "ambitious" Member States that want and support the 30% target for 2030, providing support to COP 21. In this respect, however, Belgium advocates sufficient flexibility so that we can determine for ourselves the measures that will contribute to the achievement of the national objective. In general, the European Ministers agreed that increasing energy efficiency will benefit the environment, reduce greenhouse gas emissions, increase energy security, reduce the energy costs of households and businesses, and help reduce energy insecurity by contributing to growth. Through the answer, you know precisely what happened with the description of the blocks of negotiations that emerged during these and, finally, the proposal made by the European Commission, which unfortunately was not followed by all the countries I have just mentioned. The issue of charging points for electric cars was not discussed in detail at the June Energy Council, but we know that it is linked to the Clean Energy Package's energy efficiency package, i.e. the context for energy efficiency in buildings and the revision of the 2012 energy efficiency directive. This is largely a competence of my colleagues in the Regions. With regard to the compromise proposal submitted for agreement during the June Energy Council, Belgium was able to agree to it, since most of our initial concerns or points of attention had been addressed and heard.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic738x.u148	Mr President, I note that on both dossiers, although there is one that concerns the region more than the federal one, Belgium has only followed the compromise and at no time has it relied on the European Parliament's recommendations for 40% by 2030 and on the Commission's initial recommendations for the three million for charging sites. This shows that we remain far from the ambitions that are sometimes announced and that we sometimes fall behind the fact that there is a European decision that does not impose more measures. Indeed, a compromise must be reached at European level, but at a time when this compromise is in the negotiation phase, Belgium must be ambitious. This is not the case. It supports the compromise, but it does not defend ambitious positions at the outset. I think that is also the difficulty we are in. Our speech is intended to be ambitious, but it does not materialise where it should materialize, i.e. at the beginning of discussions at European level. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic738x.u149	Mr President, we have discussed the agenda. It is proposed that the Secretary of State answer my question No 20829. However, I would like to note what the minister's representative said earlier, namely that the minister is in favour of this project. Sir, could you repeat your words so that we can act on them? I will then go to Mr. Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic738x.u150	Sir, I said earlier that the minister was a priori in favour of considering any solution for sustainable energy production.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic738x.u151	For the rest, I find it a bit unfortunate that I cannot ask the minister more in-depth about this project. I shall therefore begin by questioning the Secretary of State. But I will eventually come back to the minister, because there are questions about the principle itself. It's a form of energy. All right, it's in the North Sea, but it's particularly related to what the minister can consider. His point of view on this will continue to interest me.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic738x.u152	Perhaps we can rely on the perhaps more technical answers that the Secretary of State will be able to provide you with concerning the question that you will not fail to ask him precisely to provide additional elements, if necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic738x.u153	From a regulatory point of view, there is nothing to prevent two ministers from questioning the same subject matter if the competences are cross-cutting.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic738x.u154	Should I then insist that this be on the agenda of this committee?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic738x.u155	You can reintroduce a new question here after the Secretary of State's answer. Nothing's stopping him.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic738x.u156	Madam Minister, I have already asked you many times about the Bianca project and the risks it poses to our energy future and the future of the energy bill of thousands of Belgians. According to some media, the decision is imminent. Bloomberg reported a disagreement at the top of the group on this issue. Indeed, Gérard Mestrallet would be opposed to the project, after having publicly defended it. The newspaper L'Echo of 7 July mentions the fact that the leaders of the group took their pilgrim stick to go around the Belgian political world in this regard while linking the project to a further extension of part of the nuclear fleet beyond 2025. We dare not imagine that as the Federal Minister of Energy, you were not on the list of people you met on this subject, especially since you asked for and were waiting for such an interview with Mrs Kocher for many months. We have already had an opportunity to discuss this issue in committee. Minister, would you please let me know your position on the substance of the Bianca project? To go back to your "tête-à-tête" with Mrs. Kocher, when did this interview take place? What is the outcome of this exchange for the Bianca project? What does this mean with regard to a possible request from them for a further extension of the Belgian nuclear power station beyond 2025?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic738x.u157	My colleague, today it is difficult to define a position on the substance of the question relating to a project known as Bianca whose contours are not defined otherwise than by words reported by the press, and which regularly glaze it without having found ten expressions relating to the emergence or not of this project. To my knowledge, it happened three or four times. I don't know more about this than you do. Is it the establishment of a Belgian subsidiary better positioned on this market? Is this an opening to the Belgian capital of this subsidiary? Is it – this seems to me to be a completely different question – about the participation of Engie in the company Innogy to which the international economic press – it seems to me – was referring in July? These are words that have been told and that I will not comment on because they do not emanate from me. To answer one of your questions, know that I have not yet felt the need – indeed, it seems to me that there is nothing urgent – or had the opportunity to meet with Mrs. Kocher to discuss this issue. The Belgian State does not, to my knowledge and according to the reference documents in my possession, have a direct stake in the private company and listed Engie. De facto, he doesn't have any in Electrabel either. On the other hand, electricity and gas markets are competitive and multiple players. I therefore have no position to provide on a project relating to one of the market players, whose contours do not seem to me to be defined today and which is, I insist, a private company. However, I remain very attentive to the slightest movement, particularly with regard to the impact on energy policy for Belgium. So when it comes to the agenda, both for Mrs Kocher and for me and when the need arises, we will probably have a global discussion - she, as head of a multinational company and I, as head of energy and security of supply in this country - during which I will obviously ask her to define what I have seen in the press. It is a subject that comes out regularly in the press and I am not sure that the origin of it is the heart of the company.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic738x.u158	Did you still ask for an interview with Mrs. Kocher?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic738x.u159	I didn't ask for it in an urgent way. I said that on occasion, when she goes to Belgium, I would like to have a discussion with her. It happened once or twice, but the meeting was not organized. I do not have a problem with this; it is not necessary to see everyone all the time on a whole series of topics, especially when you see the time spacing of press information. I repeat that these do not seem to me to come from the heart of the company which, from what I see, is occupied with anything else. Know that when I meet her, we'll discuss it together. That does not prevent me from following very precisely the movements in the territory and everything related to my competences, namely energy policy.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic738x.u160	Minister, I'm a little afraid you're out of the game!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic738x.u161	I understand you're afraid for me!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic738x.u162	I see that behind the evolution of your remarks. I've already asked you about this and on April 18, about the interview, you said...
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic738x.u163	It was necessary at that time and it is not now!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic738x.u164	I haven't reminded you what you said yet.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic738x.u165	I think I said, as soon as I see her or I plan to see her and I'll ask her about the Bianca project. This statement was made at a time when things were more precise and glorifying in the mouths of those who run the business, which – in any case, this is my feeling – is no longer the case today.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic738x.u166	I give you the floor for a final reply, Mr Nollet.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic738x.u167	Mr President, I just wish to recall what the minister said at the time. I quote: "I have still not had, although I am concerned about it, the interview requested from Mrs Kocher". At that time, it was a question of solicited interview and regret in your head for not having had it yet, minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic738x.u168	That's right.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic738x.u169	I don't think it's normal that you haven't met her yet when you asked for her. But she met each other. She even came to see us here in Parliament. I would therefore like to call on the President to play the Ombudsman once again and ask her to intercede with Mrs Kocher.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic738x.u170	But at last!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic738x.u171	You are minimizing the risk of the Bianca project – so much the better, if you have information in this direction – and the importance of this meeting with Mrs. Kocher. I'm on Twitter. I think I can say that she travels around the world, that she meets all the ministers. It would be good if she could also meet with you so that you can clearly answer my questions about the Bianca project. Therefore, I can only support you and ask the President to urge Mrs Kocher to meet you as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic738x.u172	I think you're extraordinary. You could send a message on social media so Mrs. Kocher would be attentive to your request. And, why not, ask her to hire you to advise her on the appointments she must have?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic738x.u173	Mr. Nollet, I took note of your last reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic738x.u174	The last word is for the parliamentarian.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic738x.u175	I invite you to conclude.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic738x.u176	In any case, I will do what the minister proposed in the first part of her last speech. For the second part, in my view, it is necessary to allow private companies to manage their own personnel needs and not to influence them in this regard. This is a very liberal point of view! But with regard to the relationship between public authority and an influential company in the territory, I intend to do everything and even use social networks so that you can have this meeting, Madam Minister. I know we're read, listened to and watched.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic738x.u177	Mr. Chair, Minister, I have had the opportunity recently to question the Prime Minister on the issue of access to certain administrative documents related to the discount rate for nuclear supplies. Unsurprisingly, he said the importance of proper compliance with the legislation, even more so when it comes to environmental documents. My approach here is to obtain the quantitative information on these discount rates for nuclear provisions, including the negative deviations and the amount of compensation that has had to be paid over the last five years, if possible the last ten years, by specifying the discount rate in force and the rate that had been reached for each of those years. Can you now give me these figures? The Prime Minister informed me that you had requested information from the Nuclear Supplies Commission (NPB). May I ask what was the response of this Commission, beyond the acknowledgement of receipt of the request that the Prime Minister has given me? However, I am surprised by this approach in view of the answer you gave me to my written question No 214, in which you stated "that in recent years, on several occasions, there have been negative differences which have been compensated". I assume that in order to assert such a thing in your answer, you had to have the relevant numerical elements. I would therefore like to receive a copy of the precise and complete elements which have enabled you to formulate the answer to this written question No 214. Can you commit to passing them on to me quickly?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic738x.u178	Mr President, Mr Nollet, once again – what I am saying is not negative – we see your willingness to have personal contact with the head. And so, it's me, me, and me who have to give you what you want. Or Mrs. Kocher. I read the exchange you had with the Prime Minister. He found that you were the champion of all categories of remedies after the Environmental Commission. You're even stronger than Greenpeace! However, I will answer you in detail because it is true that the question is very important. We have already had the opportunity to talk about it together. I will answer you in two points. The first will concern the principle of the financial management of nuclear provisions by the provisioning company Synatom and its compliance with the discount rate imposed by the Commission on nuclear provisions. The second part will deal with your request for access to a non-existent document. With regard to the discount rate, in view of your request, I once again asked the Committee on Nuclear Supplies. It refers me to the elements contained in the previous replies, in particular the answer to your written question No. 467, indicating that from 2005 until 2012, the rate was 5%; 4.8% from 2013; 4.2% in 2016; 3.85 % in 2017, to fall to 3.5% in 2018. The Commission has also reminded me that no one knows a priori the rate of return of an investment with any financial institution, especially if you want to achieve higher returns than your savings account. Whether you place your salary or the amounts up to the nuclear provisions, that is more than nine billion euros at the end of 2016, the returns on this investment are not guaranteed, regardless of the level of caution desired. In addition, past performance does not prejudge future performance and cannot be used to predict the actual return on investments. It is precisely to guard against this that the legislator has provided for a fixed discount rate imposed by the CPN on the provisioning company. The latter must, as a good fund manager, ensure that the discount rate on all provisions is up to the discount rate imposed by the NPC. Without knowing the details of the results of the day-to-day management of these investments, it is clear that there have been, and will be, negative and positive deviations from the NPC rate. It is this principle that the CPN and my administration have explained to me and that I already mentioned in my answer to your written question No 214, as well as to question No 193. Given the statutory mechanism, these potential variances are automatically offset upwards or downwards to ensure a return, and thus a level of provision corresponding to exactly that discount rate imposed by the NPC. You will easily understand that the details of these operations are not communicated to me. How useful would I be, since the only thing that matters to me is that the discount rate is reached and respected? The NPC itself does not receive the details of all these operations. It shall periodically ensure that the amounts of the provisions are sufficient, up to the amount to which the discount rate leads. With respect to your request for access to certain environmental administrative documents related to the rate of discount of nuclear supplies, you state that I refuse to give you this access, whereas in its decision 2016-19 of 26 September 2016, the Federal Commission of Appeal for Access to Environmental Information rejected your request because the information you requested was not available. Let's have a brief history. You initially asked me, in your letter of 27 June 2016, received on 25 July 2016, and under the law of 5 August 2006, "a multi-year table of the negative deviations and the height of the compensations that have had to be made over the last five years, and if possible over the last ten years, specifying the discount rate in force and the rate that had been reached for each of those years". I just explained what to think. Without such a table, under the law that organizes the update and under the law of 5 August 2006, which organizes the Federal Board of Appeal for Access to Environmental Information, I forwarded your request to the CPN. Since I had received your request on 25 July and could not respond to it on the basis of what I have just told you, I forwarded your request, on 22 August 2016, to the Nuclear Supplies Commission, according to the acknowledgement provided to me. I informed you of that on the same date. Further to your question, numbered 20872, the Commission des réservations nucléaires informed me that it had replied to you on 19 September 2016 that it did not have this document. She also learns that she has already given you the same answer following a request from you in May 2016. You also requested, in your letter of 27 June 2016, the same information from the nuclear supply company, Synatom. On July 8, 2016, Synatom replied that this type of information could not be considered as environmental information. In the face of this refusal, you also file an appeal with the Federal Appeals Board for access to environmental information. On 12 August 2016, Synatom replied to the Federal Commission that it did not have the information in the form requested. In its decision 2016-19 of 26 September 2016, the Federal Board of Appeal dismisses your appeal because the information you are requesting is not available. Finally, at the end of September 2017, you are asking the Prime Minister to provide you with the same information. Today, I confirm to you that neither I nor my administration nor the Commission on Nuclear Supplies have a list or a multiannual table of the negative or positive deviations or the height of the compensation that has had to be paid over the last five or ten years in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic738x.u179	Mr Nollet, I give you the floor for a brief reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic738x.u180	No! Minister, there are two things that are problematic in your answer. On the one hand, the very fact that elements are brought but not where they should be. I'll explain. When the Federal Board of Appeal for Access to Environmental Administrative Documents asks you to justify, it is to the Board that you must answer. The Prime Minister recalled that. She alone will judge whether you actually have the right not to answer me or whether you have to answer me. That is why I have won on these elements every time, simply because you do not ally take the time to respond to the Board of Appeal. What you give as elements, it was enough to give them to him and then, the Appeals Board would judge. On the other hand, these figures exist. Don't play on the word "paint". I did ask for a multi-annual table, but if you don't give it to me in the form of a table, but in the form of figures, it suits me. Here you give the rates, which is one of the two things I ask in the table, the difference from the rates. It can be seen that it is systematically lower than the rate that is retained, 5% at the starting point, 4.8% after. Systematically inferior! This is a problem, since what is referenced in the legislation is never achieved. It's always inferior. This gap must therefore be bridged. Where I didn't get an answer, and that's why I'm going back to the burden, it's how to turn this gap into a nominal amount into euros. Someone's got to take care of it. Perhaps the information does not exist in the form of a table, but rather in the form of lines. Whatever! What interests me is to receive the figures, the amounts that had to be offset because the planned rates were not met. And you have them, since you mention them in an answer to my written question. However, you refuse to communicate them. That is why I hope that, in any way, in any form, the annual amounts of compensation for the rate of 5% and then 4.8% will be made public. Minister, I ask you to pass them on to me. Then we will be done with this question, which has been dragging on for a very long time. These numbers exist!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic738x.u181	Mr President, if I may, I would like to react.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic738x.u182	Please, Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic738x.u183	I arranged my schedule so that we would finish today. We will not agree, because we cannot always be. On the one hand, I read the Prime Minister's reply to you: "The minister also asked in good faith, it seems to me, for this information to be transmitted to him, in accordance with the law of 5 August 2006. The letter of 18 August 2016 was sent to the Commission des réservations nucléaires, which acknowledged receipt of the request." You questioned this Commission and Synatom. Again with regard to the same question, when I read the content of the decision of the Federal Board of Appeal, which relates to your appeal against Synatom in relation to this document, the Commission replied: "During the meeting of 22 September 2016 with Synatom, the Commission explicitly confirmed to the Secretary of the Commission that it did not have any specific documents which, in view of what has just been explained and considered, satisfy as a whole and in terms of the content of Mr Nollet's request to 'have a multi-annual table of negative deviations and the amount of compensation which had to be paid in the last five years, if possible the last ten years, specifying the discount rate in force and the rate which had been reached for each of those years'. In the light of Synatom's explicit statement made with full knowledge of the scope of the Act of 5 August 2006, the Board of Appeal considers that Mr. Nollet's application must be rejected because Synatom does not have the information requested. The action must therefore be dismissed. 26 September 2016 in Brussels." It's pretty clear. What do you want? I don't know who she's from, but there's a sentence that says, "The most beautiful girl in the world can only give what she has." So, whether it's the Nuclear Supplies Commission, Synatom, my administration or myself, we don't have what you're asking for. So I can't give it to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic738x.u184	Minister, do you agree with me that these figures exist?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic738x.u185	Can I ask you to finish your reply to stay on time, which are already a little out of date?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic738x.u186	That was my last reply, Mr. President. You agree with me, minister, that these figures exist. That's all.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic738x.u187	Question No 20892 by Mr Michel de Lamotte is postponed. Question No 20914 by Mrs Karin Temmerman is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic738x.u188	Minister, I have had the opportunity to question the Prime Minister recently on the issue of access to certain administrative documents. Unsurprisingly, he said the importance of proper compliance with the legislation, even more so when it comes to environmental documents. Following an article published in the newspaper L'Echo on 12 July 2015, I asked you to have access to all the studies carried out under the Tihange 1 convention linking the State to Electrabel and EDF. In his reply, the Prime Minister informs me in this regard that you have asked DG Energy and that DG Energy replied that "there is no document containing the results of the studies relating to the extension of the nuclear power plants operated by Electrabel, which were provided for in the Tihange 1 Convention". Madam Minister, first of all, as Minister of Energy, you are now representing the "state" entity of this convention. Therefore, I ask you who owns a copy of these studies. I assume that, even if the Energy DG does not own them, the Belgian State has not lost copies of these important studies. If, however, this were the case, you would be free to request them from the other contractors of this Convention. Can you commit to passing them on to me as soon as possible? Secondly, I would also like you to be able to respond to the other elements of the original request, namely: who conducted these studies and who coordinated them? Who awarded these contracts? How much was spent on these studies? How is this envelope divided between technical studies and legal studies? Here too, do not hesitate, if necessary, to turn to the other contractors. I hope to obtain satisfaction on these two points without having to reactivate the appeal bodies and your colleague, the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic738x.u189	Mr Nollet, first of all, a little advice for having brought a lot of recourse in my life. I'll probably do it again. I will continue to do so in my professional activity. But, please, don't abuse! Abuse of recourse exists! It's pleading!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic738x.u190	If there were ever any risk of abuse, he would have already reported it and he would have already intervened. It's not because you think there's abuse, it's abuse. There is abuse because there is no access to these documents. If I bring appeals, it is because initially, the bodies, namely the Federal Agency, the ONDRAF, the Supply Commission, Synatom and the firm, you in this case, deny me access. Since then, it's changed, AFCN gives me access. Synatom gives me access. The Supply Commission and ONDRAF give me access. You're the only one left. If I had to file appeals, it was to unblock this situation. Today, she's unlocking herself. Therefore, there will be less recourse, rest assured! There'll be less!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic738x.u191	Mr Nollet, I believe that you are burning up and that the answer that I am going to give you will strengthen you in your current attitude, which is to solicit the main interested parties, those who issue the possible documents that you are talking about,... You sometimes talk about documents that exist but, unfortunately, they do not exist. It is therefore easy to say that I do not transmit what does not exist when the person who reads or hears you does not know that it does not exist. Referring to an article in the June 12, 2015 electronic edition of the newspaper L'Echo, decidedly always well informed, you asked me, in 2016, to have all the studies related to the extension of the nuclear power plants that would have been provided for in the Tihange 1 Convention for an amount of 57 million euros. I'm still busy discussing this with you at the time in committee. In this regard, you added the additional questions you are also asking today. Your request was made on the conditional ("which would have been foreseen"), referring to an external source referring to a very high financial amount for studies (57 million euros). In view of this vague wording, I asked you to clarify further what documents were desired. I have not received any further clarification from you. As the Prime Minister has told you, I have asked my administration to tell me whether it has any documents containing studies relating to the extension of the plants for an amount of EUR 57 million which would have been provided for in the Tihange 1 Convention. DG Energy replied, as you know, "that it had no document containing the results of studies relating to the extension of the nuclear power plants operated by Electrabel and which would have been provided for in the Tihange 1 Convention." I can't say anything more. Neither I nor my administration have these documents and therefore cannot answer your additional questions. These documents may be – but you need to know if they really exist – in the hands of the operator. I don't see why the operator would deny you what the CNP, the AFCN and Synatom grant you today. Synatom is part of Electrabel, so there is no reason for Electrabel to refuse them to you. I therefore invite you to submit your request to this private company, Electrabel, to obtain the documents. Even better, I invite you to take advantage of the moment that this operating company will come in commission – it has already happened! – to ask him the question directly!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-03-54-commissie-ic738x.u192	Then you'll be surprised if there are remedies! Minister, at the time I used the conditional, why? Because we haven't had access to the convention yet. I assume that as the minister responsible, you have examined this agreement. I guess you won't be using the conditional anymore. My colleagues and I have had access to this convention here in Parliament. You yourself used this document to prepare the next convention. De facto, you turn around the pot, you pretend it doesn't exist but this amount is included in the documents that have been transmitted, that have been seen, that have been cited; so they necessarily exist. But it just saves you time, and then you surprise yourself that there are remedies!
