ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic707x.u1	Madam Secretary, according to a recent study by the leading journal Journal of the National Cancer Institute, cigarettes with ventilation holes, the former so-called light cigarettes, are more harmful than ordinary cigarettes. These cheat cigarettes were placed on the market to polish the image of the cigarette under the pretext of being less harmful, because the inhaled smoke was diluted and thus would be less carcinogenic. Light cigarettes were banned in Europe in 2002. This means that one should no longer mention that they are light cigarettes, but unfortunately the holes remained. That is less innocent than it seems, because in reality the effects appear to be just more harmful, research shows. Smokers inhale deeper with cigarettes like this because the cigarettes feel lighter. In addition, the holes in the filter lead to a lower combustion temperature, thus releasing more carcinogenic substances. The American researchers at the Food & Drug Administration argued for a ban on cigarettes with ventilation holes. They also called for cigarettes to be removed from the shelves as soon as possible. Madam Secretary, are similar investigations known in Europe? Does that lead to similar findings? Are you planning to do something about these shit cigarettes? If so, when? Have you checked that out yet?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic707x.u2	Madam President, in view of the busy agenda with the many questions, I will not repeat the introduction, which corresponds to that of my colleague, Mr Jiroflée, and I will go straight to my questions. What is your position on whether or not to ban such cigarettes? If you are in favour of a ban, what steps will you take in the short or medium term to bring such a ban into force?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic707x.u3	Madam President, the introduction has already been made by my colleague. We all know that tobacco consumption has harmful consequences and that we cannot expect the tobacco industry to act as a self-regulating industry. We have long known that this industry does not suffer from a bad conscience in this matter. Self-regulation has rarely led to success. I have the following questions. How many different tobacco products, officially registered in Belgium, have such ventilation holes? Do you have figures relating to the sales volumes of these products per year over the past five years? What do those volumes look like? Are there any elements of the study that you will include in your own tobacco policy? If yes, what elements are these and how do you take them? Following on from colleagues' questions, can you agree with the researchers' call for an immediate ban on tobacco products of this kind? If so, by when? If not, why not? If neither, which way is open to discussion? What will you do in the short term to shape this intermediate route?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic707x.u4	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your questions, which are indeed similar to the same introduction. I don't suppose that's a coincidence. The possible manipulation of the physical characteristics of tobacco products is addressed in the Guidelines on Articles 9 and 10 of the WHO Framework Convention on Tobacco Control. I quote: 'The tobacco industry uses the characteristics of the design of the products to develop strategies to increase the attractiveness of the products for different segments of society, an approach known as market segmentation'. The new European directive on tobacco products currently in force in Belgium has just as much as its main aim to reduce the attractiveness of the products by, for example,............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... All elements contributing to the promotion of the product are also prohibited on the packaging. In the case of cigarettes with ventilation holes in the filters, a possible ban should be introduced at European level. However, the European directive does not provide for this. This is not mentioned in the European directive. However, in the fight against tobacco, I believe it is important to reduce the attractiveness of tobacco products in order to reduce smoking. The FPS services are working on the implementation of the directive and on the preparation of the implementation of the standardised packaging, as announced in our anti-tobacco strategy. We must insist that tobacco, regardless of its packaging, is harmful to health and kills two thirds of its users, regardless of the product used and also with or without ventilation holes. So I can't ban cigarettes with ventilation holes. I don't think it would help much either. It needs to be raised again at European level. We will put the question to the European Commissioner.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic707x.u5	Madam Minister, I am glad that we are working on the measures already planned. You know that we think that is far too little and far too late, but well, they are working on it. However, I would like to make it quite clear that you say that there is no European ban in the directive and that you do not intend to do anything more about it in Belgium than was already envisaged. I'll write that down. I believe that Belgium could have set an example in this and I regret that this opportunity is being thrown overboard.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic707x.u6	Please note that we will ask the European Commissioner about what we can and can do. It is wise not to react like a bull on a red rag, but first to ask what the independent Member States can and may do.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic707x.u7	I have indeed noted that, Madam Secretary. This isn't about a bull on a red rag. This is so important. People are dying because of this, and we keep referring to Europe. I think we can really push through here and say what it says in our country in that area. This is about the health of people, and of young people in particular.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic707x.u8	Madam Minister, I understand that you want to know within which chalk lines you can colour in a European context, but I also miss a leading role from our country, on the basis of the proposals that go much further and which are on the table for discussion here.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic707x.u9	Madam Secretary, I'm also taking note of your answer. I believe that we should indeed play an active role in promoting this at European level and in seeing what can and can be done. I think we can do this in the short term. I can imagine that there is regular consultation with the Commission and that you can play a proactive role in ensuring that such cigarettes, which are so harmful, are withdrawn from the market and go as far as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic707x.u10	Madam Secretary, this is about Article 81 relating to medicines. There was a question from Test Purchase and Come Up against Cancer in 2014 at the KCE to evaluate the costs and impact of those secret contracts. The study is currently being published. There has been a lot to do during the study on confidentiality. If we look at the recommendations made in the study on 31 May, the KCE asked some questions. I would have liked to have heard from you what you're going to do with the report. Initially, there is a question from the KCE to work with an independent body to evaluate the contracts Article 81. In this context, details of agreements should be accessible under strict conditions of confidentiality and anonymity of data. The KCE also talks about a register of molecules that is in the pipeline of industry and where contextual elements will also be considered in negotiations. Madam Minister, what steps will you take to ensure that, during the course of the contracts based on health outcomes, there are sufficient data to also assess their effectiveness and ensure that uncertainty is removed at the end of a contract? The next point is that the KCE points out that renewal applications often take place three to four years later. We often see that some questions have been open since the first application. The KCE also says that confidentiality makes it difficult to identify the causes of this. Can the Minister make this clear so that we can avoid questions being answered and uncertainty being removed? The KCE also makes a final recommendation. Doctors and patients should be more clearly informed today about the fact that reimbursement of medicinal products is under convention, that it is temporary and that there is a risk that reimbursement may be withdrawn. I know that it is not an easy task to give the information on this issue. But one should make consciousness a little stronger in this respect. That is why my question, Madam Minister, is what you are going to do. When we look at the whole report, I think there's a question from the KCE to optimize the system. There are also many positive elements. The aim has also been to speed up the marketing of innovative medicines, but there are a number of questions, in particular the need to make the procedure more transparent and balanced. After this long introduction, my question is quite clear. What will you do with the report and how will you improve the procedure?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic707x.u11	Madam President, Madam Minister, last February I asked you about Pharma.be's attitude, which was undermining a KCE study on the mechanism for the reimbursement of innovative medicines under the Article 81 Convention by demanding the destruction of data deemed confidential but still necessary for the proper evaluation of the system. Four months later, the KCE has just released the conclusions of its study on the operation of this system. It must be noted that many shortcomings have been identified. Thus, without fully calling the system into question, the scientists in charge of this evaluation point to the lack of transparency of the system, the application of excessive tariffs or a lack of information to patients regarding the potentially temporary nature of reimbursements. Minister, I have no doubt that you were able to read the KCE study. What is your view of its conclusions? How do you intend to remedy the various shortcomings highlighted by this study, particularly as regards the lack of transparency, the application of excessive tariffs and the lack of information for patients? These are three essential things. Among its recommendations, the KCE recommends that it join other countries in order to be able to influence price negotiations more effectively and to obtain more advantageous conditions. Do you intend to implement this recommendation? If so, how? Are contacts with other countries planned in this direction? How long?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic707x.u12	Madam President, Minister, my first question is also about Article 81 of the Convention and the report of the CCE, the lack of transparency and a number of other issues that they reveal, as well as the evaluation they make about confidentiality, etc. That is what my fellow Members have been talking about. The system also clearly creates a lack of transparency at international level because as long as the actual price of the original product is not known, the manufacturer of a generic medicinal product cannot, for example, carry out projections to determine a competitive price for its product. The KCE itself said that it could not get access to the discounts negotiated and found that rather disgusting. I have the same questions as my colleagues. Do you share the KCE's view that there is a risk that pharmaceutical companies will ultimately apply extremely high official prices through this system? Will you evaluate the system and address the pain points according to the recommendations of the KCE? My second question is more about the European context. On the European Day of Patients' Rights, there was a conference in Brussels where a number of interesting speeches were held, while the pain points were also revealed in relation to the new approaches to European regulation of medicines. Everyone agreed that innovations are very important and contribute to the health and well-being of citizens and patients. However, it was also mentioned that many European countries still have to wait a long time before an innovative medicine is available. It also demonstrated the inexplicable differences between country x and country y in terms of access, in the sense that it is moving rapidly in one country while in the other it is happening much later. There are also still different prices for the same medicine per EU Member State. It was also mentioned that many thresholds still need to be removed and that inequality must also be addressed. Madam Minister, do you agree that much more cooperation is needed because of the thresholds and inequality? If so, what can you do about it as a Belgian minister? Are you in favour of a clear European definition of innovation in the context of medicines? Now this definition is quite often different from one Member State to another. Finally, are you also taking steps at European level to ensure that patients' rights are respected by each Member State, including in terms of access to innovative medicines?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic707x.u13	Minister, we have already faced on several occasions the growing confidentiality surrounding section 81 drugs. This has been reinforced successively through bills. In addition, the KCE is amputated with some of its publications as the figures and anonymous data cannot be made public. The arguments put forward point to the fact that we want to make the negotiations as efficient as possible and that we have the most attractive prices possible for access to innovative medicines. Despite the secret nature of the negotiations, it can be seen, whether for hepatitis C medicines or for cystic fibrosis (drugs expected by and necessary for patients), that prices remain astronomical. In addition, with regard to the Orkambi medicine, you yourself had denounced the exorbitant price (700 euros per daily dose knowing that 500 people have this form of cystic fibrosis), which explains your refusal to refund this medicine. There is a paradox between the secret necessary to get interesting prices and too high prices and then, finally, the breach of confidentiality in your head. You negotiated with your Dutch colleague, but that was not enough. Madam Minister, what is the status of the negotiations, because I know they are taking place with other European countries? Do you have any explanations and can you tell us about this figure of 700 euros in terms of study budgets, subsidies received to carry out their research, prices in other countries and the criteria on which you rely to say that the price is far too high in relation to the costs of production and design. More generally, in addition to negotiations with other European countries, does this not highlight the fact that the negotiations that take place are not for the benefit of caregivers and patients but rather for the benefit of the market and the pharmaceutical sector?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic707x.u14	Madam President, Mrs Gerkens, Mrs Muylle, Mr Senesael, Mrs Dedry, there are many questions about the KCE study. Mrs Gerkens, your questions are slightly different. Mrs Gerkens, your question concerns a somewhat different subject. It relates to the procedure of the Commission for the reimbursement of medicinal products (CRM) followed twice for the medicinal product Orkambi. Article 81 is indeed one of the many instruments in general pharmaceutical policy. The aim is to bring innovative medicines to the patient as soon as possible and at the same time to ensure the sustainability of our health care. We are also doing this, among other things, by focusing on international cooperation on innovative medicines and on other measures in the future pact, in order to make the costs of medicines for health insurance manageable. I am thinking here of the use of biosimilary medicines, which we want to encourage, the patentcliff and other measures. The aim should be to use all instruments as efficiently as possible. The same goes, of course, for the Article 81 procedure, which must do what it was created to do. Therefore, it is positive that the investigations have been carried out by the KCE and that an analysis has been made. It is, of course, intended to study the report in detail and to discuss the necessary adjustments. I will come back to the way we will. As regards the confidentiality of the agreements referred to as Article 81, our health care is based on the principle of solidarity. We must ensure that as many people as possible have access to quality medicines and therapies. To do so, the price must be adapted to the living standards of the different countries. This also means that pharmaceutical companies compensate for low prices in less prosperous countries by higher prices in richer countries, with the aim of continuing to invest in the required innovation. This aspect must be taken into account when comparing prices between different countries. Now, since we're very small, we're not advantaged. Prices reimbursed by health care insurance are made public for medicines that are definitively reimbursed. In addition, many medicines are reimbursed under conditions, for example because there is not yet enough evidence on the cost-effectiveness or budgetary impact of the medicines in question. In this case, countries negotiate with industry about these medicines, depending on the specific needs of their own population. The prices they obtain in this way do not always correspond to public prices. This price negotiated within a country remains confidential. This is the case in all countries, as it is always a country's specific choice and a risk shared between countries and industry. This allows us to have discounts and offer affordable prices to patients, which would not be possible otherwise. This is the case in many countries, including Belgium. The disadvantage of having this confidential aspect does not weigh on the advantage of the reduction in the Belgian authorities' expenditure on medicinal products. The usual reductions make it possible to make available to patients innovative medicines for which clinical and/or budgetary uncertainties remain. Otherwise, there would be a negative impact on the sharing of risks to industry, which would jeopardize the reimbursement of these innovative medicines. With regard to international collaborations, if I were not in favour of this type of initiative, I would not have taken the initiative to ask the Netherlands and the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg to cooperate, to which Austria subsequently joined. There is already a collaboration in various areas including Horizon scanning. The methodology for the Horizon scanning is currently being developed and the first results in this area will be obtained once the methodology has been established and applied. In fact, there was a meeting last week that was organized by us and which I initiated. Researcher Mrs Cleemput of the KCE explained the usefulness of doing horizon scanning together. 19 European Member States participated. If 19 out of 28 Member States are there to look at the potential benefit, that is a great success. The Benelux example was also explained in detail there. With regard to the evaluation of individual contracts based on Article 81, the following. Currently these can be closed for a maximum duration of 3 years. In most cases, the company must submit an evaluation report 6 months before the contract expires. If an agreement of 3 years was concluded, the company will have 2.5 years for the data collection, analysis and additional information it is required to provide. For example, in the case of long-term treatment, it is not always possible to have collected all data and eliminated all uncertainties. There is an independent body, Mrs Muylle. In particular, the CTG is independent in its conclusions It evaluates all available data. One of the recommendations of the KCE report concerns a clearer presentation by the CTG of the initial uncertainties, as well as how the applicant responded to the uncertainties in the subsequent new CTG procedure. This is already under way, so as to provide more clarity on the remaining uncertainties and on why the data have not yet been added. A new agreement may give the company the opportunity to provide this additional information. If the CTG considers that the questions indeed remain unanswered and therefore that the data collected during the agreement are insufficient to continue the reimbursement, it is decided to stop the reimbursement of the medicinal product. You know that this has happened a few times and always provokes a lot of reactions. Patients do not understand why they are initially given a medicine, but that it is no longer available afterwards. That sometimes leads to painful cases with a lot of emotions. This happened 4 times since 2010. In 12 cases a definitive repayment was made and in 11 cases a new agreement was concluded, mainly for budgetary reasons. The clinical uncertainties were unexplained, but the company could not reduce the facial price to the level of the cost of health insurance during the first contract. It would also be a damaging effect, should the price first be lower than the facial price and then be much higher at the final refund. I'm going to go over the communication with doctors about the renewal of contracts. At present, proprietary medicinal products temporarily entered in the list of pharmacovigilance medicinal products are indicated by the letter "T' for temporary reimbursement, in the column "T' for comments on this list. This list can be consulted freely through the web application "Proprietary medicinal products' on the RIZIV website. Doctors are familiar with this web application. In addition, the uncertainties are mentioned in the public part of the agreements, which can theoretically be consulted by any citizen. The list of these uncertainties often shows the reason why a convention was concluded. There are therefore sufficient channels for doctors to be informed that the reimbursement is provisional. Nevertheless, the BCFI website may be an additional communication path. As regards the follow-up to the report, consultations will take place in early July between the KCE, the members of the working group dealing with Article 81 of the Convention and the members of the Bureau of the Reimbursement Commission for Medicinal Products, with a view to assessing the extent to which other recommendations can be implemented in the system. It seems more interesting to us to put the members of the Reimbursement Commission in contact immediately with those who adopted the conclusions. With regard to your question, Mrs Gerkens, what happened? First of all, we worked together with the Netherlands for Orkambi. It went very well but, at some point, we also have to go through the CRM to follow the procedure. The procedure and application shall be made to the CTG. That's where the CTG gave a first negative opinion. After the negotiations with the Netherlands, there was a second opinion. Now, according to the procedure, we have to wait until 1 October for an application to be made again via the CTG. Then the company will also have longer-term figures. In the Netherlands it is a different system. They have a different procedure. They may, immediately after the refusal, submit a new application there was also a refusal with the same conclusions of their institute................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... I've weighed that. I can deviate from that procedure, but I'm not gonna do that. That would mean that I would not respect the independent CTG. Perhaps the Dutch will, because their procedure allows it. We will have to do something about this if we are to work more and more in accordance with the European directives. If this is not possible within 90 days, then the procedure must be broken into. I am not going to do that because this would be a huge precedent. That would also be very badly accepted by the CTG, quite rightly. So this was refused both with us and in the Netherlands. It was not only because of price but also because of efficiency. There were too many doubts. The firm said that she still had two other studies that have been known since then. There they said that the results of studies were better in the longer term. That's under investigation. We have good contacts with the Dutch. Our people work together. I call the Dutch Minister and we see what conclusions we come to. We explain the procedures to each other, and we learn a lot from each other. So we certainly need to proceed with this joint horizon scanning. As you know, the Member States have said that we must each follow our own procedures for pricing and legal procedures, something they are going to do. It is therefore not because it can immediately be resubmitted in the Netherlands which is completely legal to them that we are therefore going to break into our procedure that is written down for the functioning of the CTG. I want to say one more thing. The negotiations that are being conducted do not take place with the pharmaceutical industry. They always happen to the producer of the medicine. It is the pharmaceutical firm and not the industry. We never negotiate with the pharmaceutical industry, but with the manufacturer of the medicine. Mrs. Dedry, what you asked for, I have to ask again. As far as I know, if a medicine is not yet definitively registered, it is always possible that there is interest from the generic industry to develop it, but given the cost and the fact that it will remain patented for a long time, I do not think the desire will be too great. Let me ask the generic producers if they really want to do so. We know it will, because for hepatitis C, generics will soon be on the market. We did not wait for that to be paid back, but Gilead has long had a monopoly position. Meanwhile, a number of generics are on their way. However, as you know, they are still protected by their patent. I'd like to check it out because I'd like to know.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic707x.u15	Madam Secretary, thank you for your answer. Maybe one more question. If I understand correctly from your reply, there was a great deal of discussion during the discussion of the report about the information, which should or should not be included in the file when re-submitted. The study of the KCE states that in many cases the re-submitted file is largely the same or even simply a copy of what was submitted earlier. However, confidentiality does not make it possible to determine whether the results are not available or simply to re-present them. It may also be that the results have been processed in a confidential manner, so that the file has been resubmitted on the basis of evidence and results. Madam Secretary, when I hear your explanation, you say that that information and those results are there. Although the KCE could not assess this, a new file was submitted on the basis of information. The re-submission of a dossier should always be based on the results of an evaluation. I see the Minister nodding yes. I therefore suspect that this is a confirmation.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic707x.u16	Let us listen to all the lines and then, eventually, I will accept a clarification but I would remind you that, in the context of the oral questions, we have already blew up the clock!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic707x.u17	I thank the minister. Since his answer contains a lot of information, I will reread it with rested head and possibly come back with a written question, if I had a request for additional clarification to submit to him.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic707x.u18	Madam Minister, thank you for the detailed answer and for the interest in looking up certain things. There is one thing I will remain hungry about, namely that definition of innovation.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic707x.u19	This will be discussed in the working group launched with representatives of the KCE and the CTG. They have to decide when a product is innovative. If there is no cure for any indication yet, it is of course clear that this medicine is innovative. If there are other products, the question is how innovative it is. Does it have any added value? Is it a better treatment with a better quality of life and more chance of survival? All of this will have to be defined. I think this is very important. That is why we want to bring these representatives together. The KCE has raised this issue and I believe that they are trying to find a better solution together.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic707x.u20	Minister, I will read your answer in depth. With respect to the meeting between KCE and CRM, is there a timing?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic707x.u21	I don't know. This is not indicated in my agenda because I am participating in the budget discussions. Maybe next week.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic707x.u22	This means that, possibly, the recommendations of the KCE in this area and the results of the CRM-KCE working group can be re-examined in September more specifically. We can decide on a more thematic moment on the subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic707x.u23	Minister, following the massive attack, WannaCry, which particularly affected the British NHS, the medical press recently relayed the concerns of a cyber specialist. The latter identified significant gaps in health data. The potentially dangerous entry points in the event of an attack would be servers and workstations connected to the Internet, medical devices connected to the hospital network or to a workstation, portable and mobile devices such as insulin pumps and smart watches, not to mention various wireless systems. Network imaging and even connected printers could be used as access doors. For example, patient data contained in a hospital's computer network could be sold "in black" to insurers. I'm not going to make it a crime novel or a science fiction novel, but this specialist claims, for example, that bracelets with a heart rate sensor could give indications of the desire to buy or serve as a lie detector or for criminal purposes. It appears that the Food and Drug Administration has already asked hospitals not to use a particularly vulnerable infusion pump. Minister, at a time when you are giving a lot of impetus to develop e-health, this leads me to ask you about what already exists in terms of safety in the health sector and what is possibly in preparation. Of course, I have no doubt that hospitals are already protecting themselves, and perhaps even more than some companies and individuals. Are there specific provisions for the health sector? In particular, how is this factor taken into account in your e-health policies? Should medical equipment distributed in our country, for example, meet certain standards? Finally, are there specific recommendations and controls?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic707x.u24	Mrs Caprasse, my answer will be very technical. There are indeed specific provisions on cybersecurity in the medical sector. In answer to your first question, I can say that there are three different components. Firstly, the European Data Protection Regulation. On 27 April 2016, Europe issued a Data Protection Regulation, General Data Protection Regulation, which will enter into force on 25 May 2018. This regulation goes beyond what national legislation so far imposes and is directly applicable in Belgium. The Belgian legislator will probably add a few more details to this regulation. Care facilities have a good year and a half to write down all the necessary procedures and agreements. An information security policy that will be followed and monitored will also have to be laid down on paper. With regard to the hospital emergency plan, it is the responsibility of each hospital to prepare a hospital emergency plan and submit it for approval by the authorities. The aim of the hospital emergency plan is to undertake, with the help of all the disciplines within the hospital, the necessary actions to be able to cope with the internal and external influx of victims. They must be able to be managed effectively, without endangering the care given to patients already in hospital. Cybercrime is part of this hospital emergency plan and does not address disturbances that can occur within the hospital, such as a fire, a chemical accident, a nosocomial bacterium. With respect to your second eHealth question, the aspect of cybercrime is divided into two parts. First of all, the eHealth platform, as a public institution, aims to promote and support well-organised provision of services and exchange of electronic mutual information among all healthcare actors, with the necessary guarantees as regards information security, the protection of the privacy of the patient and the healthcare provider and respect for medical confidentiality. The eHealth platform does not develop any electronic patient records management software but checks which software meets the many criteria and specifications set at the CTI level. Then comes the policy of computer security within the hospital. An ICT contract was concluded with most hospitals. The condition of this contract was that hospitals develop a multi-year ICT plan in accordance with the instructions provided in the August 2014 Circular. It is expected that this plan will include at least a number of basic ISO standards for IT security. Your third question concerns medical equipment distributed in our country. With respect to medical devices, a doctor can only prescribe applications recognized by the AFMPS that meet a series of safety standards, which are mentioned in several royal orders whose dates I will inform you. As for the Mobile Health application, under the General Data Protection Regulation, applications will have to provide sufficient security in the context of the Federal Authentication Service. A number of authentication tools are available that allow people to connect to E-Government applications. The different means of authentication can be classified into five levels. With regard to Mobile Health applications, the Interministerial e-Health Conference opted for a minimum level of three, i.e. the person can identify himself without electronic eID but with a security code received by SMS or via a mobile application. As for the specific control recommendations, they exist for the encryption of the exchanged data and the eHealth platform designs, develops and manages an electronic collaboration platform in which several basic services are made available free of charge to the actors. An example of a basic service that enables the provision of services and the exchange of properly secured electronic information is the system of encryption of the exchanged data which ensures that it can only be read by the recipient and the sender. The eHealth platform thus manages and coordinates the ICT aspects of the encrypted and secure electronic exchange of patient-related data between different health care providers, provided that this is authorized by the patient and by law. For the patient, authorization is informed consent. Agreements in terms of content have been reached in other relevant bodies. With regard to the security of cloud services, the information security services in the hospital and the sectoral committee on social security and health, I give you the information, which is very technical.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic707x.u25	Minister, thank you for your detailed answers. It is reassuring to hear all this because it is true that we are in a worrying time. I hope that all recommendations will cover the risks that never protect us.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic707x.u26	Madam President, Minister, it is estimated that there are 10,000 people who suffer from unannounced cardiac arrest outside a hospital setting every year. Unfortunately, the survival rate of these people is barely 10 per cent after rapid and effective relief. As you know, the chances of survival could be improved by the general public's generalization of the learning of saving gestures, but also by the densification of automatic external defibrillators in our territory. In 2013, our Parliament adopted a resolution calling on the government to: - to establish a cadastre of self-contained external defibrillators accessible to the public and to publish it on the website of the SPF Public Health, Food Chain Safety and Environment; - identify, in collaboration with the provincial emergency medical aid commissions, strategic sites far from a hospital or not allowing the intervention of a SMUR within very short periods of time, in which, taking into account, inter alia, the density of the population, the installation of defibrillators would be recommended; - to consult with the Communities and Regions to analyse the possibilities and criteria for the installation of defibrillators in schools, sports venues, cultural centres and other important public places within their competence and to promote information and training of the public in first aid; - to make private companies aware of the importance of acquiring automatic external defibrillators to ensure the safety of workers in their workplace; - to make the commercial areas aware of the importance of the acquisition of automatic external defibrillators in view of the number of their potential customers; - to provide, through a strategic plan, where appropriate, for the installation of automatic defibrillators in the buildings of the federal authority. Minister, what steps have been taken so far within your competence, but also in synergy with the other levels of authority involved, to promote and generalize public access to automatic external defibrillators? What results have been achieved so far? What are the projects planned this year?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic707x.u27	Mr Calomne, first of all, I can tell you that when I was a parliamentarian, my colleague Yolande Avontroodt and I made this proposal to make possible the use of external automated defibrillators by people who are not doctors in different places. The cadastre of automatic external defibrillators is accessible to the public. It is available via a form on the FPS Public Health, Food Chain Safety and Environment website. In this cadastre, my services have so far recorded more than 6,500 external defibrillators, not to mention the files still to be processed. But we don't think they're all registered. Analyses of the data recorded from this cadastre should be the starting point for any promotion action. They will allow us to know where there are, how many, where the gaps are, what type they are, etc. In order to best target any new action, I asked the KCE to prepare a cost-effectiveness analysis report for external defibrillators. They promised to finalize this report in November or December this year. I agree, but we need a method to further implement this kind of defibrillator.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic707x.u28	Thank you, Minister, for these answers. I will not further develop the importance of these external defibrillators. They exist and governments are making increasing efforts, as are some private companies, to set up them. You don't have to use it, but when you do it, it can save lives, which is important. We will return to you when the report is here. You talked about November or December. At the end of the year or the beginning of the next year, we will be able to discuss this issue with you again and discuss possible progress. The Chair: You can even read the KCE report when it is published.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic707x.u29	Minister, in your concept note on clinical hospital networks on May 18th, you position Level 1 trauma centers in supra-regional networks. It states that the reference point is a university hospital. However, this reference to a university hospital is not part of the KCE's note on serious trauma. This would lead to the possibility of having three trauma centers in Flanders, three for the Brussels-Capital Region and one for all Wallonia, within the CHU of Liège. However, it should be noted that in Wallonia, since 22 November 2015, a level 1 trauma centre has been certified according to the German repository at the base of the TraumaNetzwerk EURegio network. It is located at the CHR in Liège and meets the requirements of the KCE report on trauma centers. The CHR of Liège organises three international certification training programmes, uses the activation of the "trauma code" alert and maintains a quality register. The CHR of Liège is already integrated into the TraumaNetzwerk EURegio Aachen network and has collaboration agreements with other hospitals in the province of Liège. CHR receives 230 severe trauma patients annually, 144 of whom have a severity score greater than 15. The CHR in Liège also has university paediatric and maternity services as well as recognized expertise in acute geriatrics. If the academic character of the supra-regional reference point for trauma center is maintained, the trauma center of the CHR of Liège Citadelle will disappear. Minister, has the specific situation of Wallonia been studied in detail when you wrote your concept note? Do you therefore confirm the future disappearance of the trauma center of the CHR of Liège? How do you explain, moreover, that in view of the criteria adopted there is only one possibility of a centre in Wallonia, whereas they could be three in Flanders and three in Brussels?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic707x.u30	Mr Frédéric, we have to make the difference between the conclusions of the KCE study and what is in our concept note, and then what will be practiced, because we have to be sure that patients have access. It's as important for patients in Wallonia as it is for patients in Flanders. I have read the KCE study entitled "Towards an integrated system for handling serious trauma". In this study, KCE clearly argues for a change in organisation in the management and treatment of patients with severe trauma. Experiences abroad are positive and therefore certainly deserve to be implemented in Belgium. The KCE has identified the need for trauma centres for our country using a range. We would need four to seven centres, which must be well distributed throughout the territory. The challenge will be, on the one hand, to set an exact number and, on the other hand, to designate in practice the trauma centres among the hospitals with an emergency service. This obviously requires a number of consultations with, among others, the federated entities and the hospital sector. In addition, this is linked with the new hospital landscape, particularly with regard to so-called supraregional clinical functions, such as trauma centres.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic707x.u31	Madam Minister, in order to be sure to understand you well, you say that there is on the one hand the KCE note and on the other hand, the concept note. But there is no indication that my hypothesis is correct. You're telling me we'll have to define a number and we'll have to choose. You are also telling me that we will have to ensure accessibility for all patients on the territory. But you're not answering my clear question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic707x.u32	That's because I'm not able to answer you. I am only telling you that consultation is necessary and that your theory is therefore premature. We are not yet at this stage.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic707x.u33	I agree, Madam Minister, but it is quite logical that I should relay a legitimate concern.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic707x.u34	Yes, yes.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic707x.u35	You are telling me that it is not clearly defined, that it may be, but not for the moment. There is also the question of the time limit. You tell me you need to consult the federated entities.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic707x.u36	We also have contacts with the relevant ministers. However, for the time being, it is a little difficult to contact some regional officials, since it is not clear who should be contacted.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic707x.u37	You're talking to those you like. It's not a problem. I'm just recording that the decision is not made. I would then like to draw your attention to the fundamental need to maintain relations with the ground and to maintain a territorial balance in this area. Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic707x.u38	You will of course be able to return to the subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic707x.u39	Madam Secretary, it's warm outside again. The UV index is on red, so we can't recommend people enough to lubricate sunscreen. At the end of May, Test-Achats made the alarm bell following a control of sun creams. From an own study, Test-Achats found that a significant proportion of the sunscreens do not meet the quality standards and do not meet the information on the packaging. First of all, a number of products do not offer the promised protection factor. This is very damaging because consumers are wrongly relying on proper protection and can cause abundant exposure to UVA and UVB skin cancer. Furthermore, it appears that a number of products are actively harmful due to the presence of allergens. However, sun creams should comply with European quality standards. Test-Achats would have written to you in the meantime. Madam Secretary, have you been in contact with Test Purchasing in the meantime? What controls are currently in place to ensure the quality of the sun creams? What sanctions can you take against producers who put non-quality products into circulation? How many checks were carried out between 2010 and 2017? How many infringements were detected and how many sanctions were imposed? Will you increase the checks after the determination of Test-Achats?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic707x.u40	Mrs Hufkens, as regards labelling, I would remind you that the controls on sunscreens are part of the general controls on the labelling of cosmetics. My services carry out more than 5 000 of these checks every year, but they do not know which ones relate to sunscreens. They can't find those figures. The Inspection department checks the product information files at Belgian manufacturers on a sample basis. The product information file shall include, inter alia, solar protection tests. There is no prior approval by the government of these files. Following the examination of Test-Achats to which you refer, some files from a Belgian manufacturer were checked in 2016. The solar product was found to provide sufficient protection for UVA and UVB and to be properly labelled. In general, I can tell you that we have not yet been able to identify serious infringements in the inspection of solar cream files in Belgium. Many solar products on the Belgian market are also marketed by a manufacturer or responsible person established in another European Member State. It is often about French products. Those products should be checked by the competent services of the Member State concerned before they can enter the market. When this is noted, our services should contact the services of the country where the product was produced. It's already happened. This is an attempt to take measures by way of a detour.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic707x.u41	Madam Minister, I understand that it is a complicated issue, because it is also about creams coming from abroad and this is not obvious. It is reassuring that your services have not yet identified any serious infringements. On the other hand, I wonder whether it is not possible to make a distinction in the sunscreens within the cosmetics sector by means of labelling. I don't know if that's possible. For example, last week there was this whole discussion around the solariums, which is of course another issue. However, it is also very important for sun creams that these products do what they serve. That must be monitored.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic707x.u42	Minister, as you know, amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) also known as Charcot's disease is a neurodegenerative disease that results in progressive paralysis of the body, affecting neurons and respiratory functions. The patient can no longer move, speak, swallow or breathe, while his sensory and mental abilities remain intact. Evolution is often very rapid. The causes are currently unknown and there is still no treatment as such, even if there is a drug, Rilutek, which slightly slows down the development of the disease. I would therefore like to take stock of the situation, given that this disease affects several hundred people in Belgium and that about two hundred of them die from it every year. Minister, are you aware of the number of cases currently recognised in Belgium? To what extent is Belgium involved in research into the treatment of this disease? In the United States, Edaravone, which is used in the treatment of Charcot disease, has been approved and could soon be placed on the market. What about us? What initiatives are being taken to improve the quality and financial management of these patients?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic707x.u43	In Belgium, patients with ALS can be monitored by reference centres for neuromuscular diseases. Seven hospitals have such a reference centre. The updated register based on data from the seven reference centres shows that in 2015, 451 ALS patients were monitored. One of the objectives of the reference centres for neuromuscular diseases is to monitor all patients with neuromuscular disease, including ALS. However, it is likely that this objective will not be fully achieved. My services don't know how many ALS patients are not being monitored in a referral centre, but by other doctors or hospitals. At present, there is not yet a marketing authorisation for Edaravone under ALS at the level of the European Medicines Agency (EMA). As soon as there is a positive opinion from the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use, the firm concerned may submit an application for authorisation to EMA for this medicinal product. Patients with ALS can apply to one of seven specialized referral centres with extensive medical and psychosocial expertise. These centres are part of a hospital and can accompany patients, both in outpatients and in hospital. The reference centres are responsible for the diagnosis and medical treatment of patients, as well as for multidisciplinary support, including psychosocial support for patients and their families. They can also assist patients in their search for appropriate medical devices and infrastructure. Patients with ALS may also be able to follow a functional rehabilitation program in hospital, either as a hospital patient or as an outpatient, if such a program is deemed appropriate and relevant. In 2009, an amount of more than EUR 8 million was allocated under compulsory health care insurance to carry out projects providing for a specific programme for patients with multiple sclerosis or amyotrophic lateral sclerosis at a very advanced stage. At present, six projects providing for a specific programme for these patients, as part of a collaboration between hospitals and residential structures, are being carried out in Belgium. The programme mainly provides the additional care required, support for families, training and support for staff, as well as a liaison function between the hospital and residential structures for the support of persons in these structures and for the formulation of specialized opinions. To this end, the INAMI Insurance Committee has concluded a convention for each project providing for specific funding for this purpose. The agreement also provides for an allowance of 11 euros per day as an intervention in the price of the day in a residential structure. These conventions provide for a total of 185 places for patients with ALS or multiple sclerosis.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic707x.u44	Minister, thank you for your answers. I've got a few questions left. I will therefore come back to you via a written question. You tell me there are 185 places available for the sick but there are 451 cases listed and followed by the seven reference centres. You do not know the cases that are not dealt with in these seven reference centres. We should see a little bit more clearly in this case. I thank you for the initiatives that you have taken and that you will still be able to take in this area. Finally, what is the status of the drug that could be placed on the market? If I understand correctly, files can be filed but, for the time being, no initiative is being taken in this regard.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic707x.u45	Before a dossier can be submitted to the European Medicines Agency (EMA), a positive opinion from the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use is needed. This opinion is still waiting. As soon as this positive opinion is given, applications can be submitted to the European Agency.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic707x.u46	Madam President, Minister, vapour shops are very present in the shopping streets and often look very attractive and trendy. There are about 250 to 500 vapour stores in Belgium. Until recently, they were trading in a grey zone, but you set up a KB to control them and align them with ordinary tobacconists. As a result, it is clear that e-cigarettes are forbidden to evaporate in closed public spaces, to advertise or promote e-cigarettes, to sell e-cigarettes to young people under 16 years of age and to sell e-cigarettes remotely. In January there was a control of the FPS Public Health in 28 vapour stores. In 13 of them there appeared to be infringements of the composition or labelling of nicotine vials. In 2 stores, customers were steaming. 1 store operator sold nicotine vials to 14-year-olds. 14 stores were in breach of advertising law. In your tobacco plan, you have made it clear that the e-cigarette has a place in your policy to discourage tobacco. What action will you take in response to the infringements identified? In what way can you reconcile the appearance of the vapour stores with your vision of the e-cigarette as part of a discouragement policy? Damp shops have strong promotions through their name and design for the use of the e-cigarette. How do you see this compatible with the ban on advertising e-cigarettes?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic707x.u47	Madam President, Minister, as my colleague has just pointed out, this royal order was made on May 17, 2017. I'm not going to remind you of its contents. You have it in front of you and you certainly know it because it's yours. Two aspects need to be mentioned. Firstly, in connection with what my colleague Van Hoof has said, it is not yet clear to a wide range of people that electronic cigarettes should be regarded as a tobacco product. Whether it's advertising, being able to use it in public places, etc., it's no! These are the same rules as for a tobacco product. Clearly, contrary messages are delivered on the ground. I appeal to the greater responsibility of e-cigarette vendors. Second, one question remains with respect to your order. You have in fact decided to list in a limited way what is not confidential or which does not constitute a trade secret. I confess, if I were you, I would have acted in the opposite direction. You could have decided that all data should be transmitted except for a possibly limited list of data that can be considered confidential. With your royal decree there is a risk that all items will be classified as confidential. This is a real problem. For tobacco, cigarettes, it is known that all adjuvants have a multiplicative effect, that they cause tobacco consumption. I fear that a whole series of consumer incentives will be added on the pretext of trade secrecy. Minister, why did you allow so many trade secrets for electronic cigarettes?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic707x.u48	Madam President, the regulation on advertising and use of e-cigarettes is identical to the regulation on tobacco products. Indeed, that is not sufficiently known. I remember a lot of commotion about a school where students had to be banned from smoking. A question was even asked to Mrs Crevits, while the law stipulates that smoking should not be allowed in public places and therefore not in schools. In schools, therefore, no special measures should be taken regarding the e-cigarette, since this cigarette is equivalent to an ordinary cigarette, to the pipe and so on. In this committee, Mrs Gerkens and I once had discussions about the use of a pipe. Mrs Gerkens and I have had a discussion about the use of a pipe, even if it is empty. In practice, this also means that advertising and sponsorship of e-cigarettes is prohibited. This includes any communication or action aimed directly or indirectly at promoting sales, irrespective of the location, means of communication used or the techniques used. However, an important exception concerns the specialised points of sale, since the trade mark may be affixed to posters and to the front of the shop. Since mid-January, the FPS Health Inspectorate has also been monitoring e-cigarette outlets to verify that the provision of the Royal Decree of 28 October 2016 on the manufacture and marketing of electronic cigarettes is being correctly applied. In this context, the provisions on advertising are also checked. If the legislation is not complied with, a report of warning or infringement shall be drawn up, depending on the circumstances established by the inspector on the spot. As you know, these checks are also being carried out. A demonstration has already taken place in front of my door, involving a great deal of steam, to the delight of my neighbors, who did not understand why a group of people were producing plenty of vapour on Sunday. My e-cigarette policy is based on the advice of the High Health Council published in October 2015, which states that it can be an effective tool to stop smoking and should therefore be as accessible to smokers as tobacco. We know that not all health risks associated with vapours are known yet. There are still insufficient long-term studies on this because the e-cigarette does not exist long enough. Therefore, we must be careful and take measures to protect non-consumers, i.e. those who would not use the e-cigarette to replace smoking with something less harmful. It is on that basis and on the basis of the European Directive 2014/40 that this policy has been developed. It is indeed forbidden to advertise and sell e-cigarettes to minus 16-year-olds, but it is necessary that smokers who want to stop can buy safe e-cigarettes and have easy access to them. Advertising for e-cigarettes is prohibited, but the inspection of the Public Health Office is pragmatic. For safety and health reasons, the seller may give the customer an oral explanation of the operation of the product. Ms Fonck, in order to transpose Implementing Decision 2015/2183, the Commission established on 24 November 2015 a common model for the notification of electronic cigarettes and refill bottles. My services have prepared a ministerial order for this purpose. In the context of this procedure, the Council of State delivered an opinion on 15 February last, considering that certain provisions were without legal basis. To remedy this, the Council of State suggested that these provisions should be incorporated into the Royal Decree of 28 October 2016. This request was followed up by the publication on 29 June 2017 of the Royal Decree of 17 May 2017. As indicated, it is a matter of transposing the Commission Implementing Decision 2015/2183, since Directive 2014/40 requires notification data to be made public, while protecting business secrets. There is a definite interest in defining which elements may or may not be considered confidential.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic707x.u49	Madam Minister, it is true that there is still a great deal of ignorance about the e-cigarette. In Knack last week there was a question with Professor Tytgat and I noticed that the questions and answers showed that they did not know that it was equivalent to tobacco. So there is still a need for some information on this. People also see a lot of young people, I think, walking around with the e-cigarette. There is, therefore, still work to be done on the basis of information, even though it is for some reason the competence of the Flemish Community and the French Community to raise awareness. The High Health Council was not able to make strong recommendations in this area in 2015. However, five years later, we need to check whether this target group, and perhaps the CCE, can be ordered to pay damages. They did not know this because there were too few smokers of the e-cigarette at the time. We, as policy-makers, must be alert and regularly organise studies on this, as it is becoming more and more established, and we must draw the consequences from it.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic707x.u50	Thank you, Madam Minister. The e-cigarette can indeed be an aid for quitting smoking, but at the same time the risk remains that it will become a fashion phenomenon, especially for young people, and thus an alternative gateway to nicotine. It is the responsibility of the public authorities to pay particular attention to this. As regards your choice of how you drafted your royal decree, I am well aware that this is the transposition of the European directive, following the opinion of the Council of State. Having said that, I still do not understand why you allow such a broad enumeration of what trade secrets can be. For my part, I would have opted for a different, much more restrictive definition of confidential data that the sector can keep for it. I would like to draw your attention to those adjuvants who may, at some point, be part of the trade secret, but who might encourage consumption. The European Directive did not prevent them from being excluded from this trade secret. I hope you will be vigilant about this aspect of things.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic707x.u51	Madam Minister, this is a subsidised project under the EU's third health programme. It focuses on strengthening cities and municipalities to reduce drinking among minors and heavy occasional drinking. This project has come about because it has been known that coordinated local alcohol strategies have proved their worth. Local strategies will be developed, implemented and evaluated in a number of municipalities in 11 European countries, including Belgium. I thought that was a very interesting approach. After all, it is considered very holistic, with different measures. Both parents, schools and children are involved in both preventive and advertising work. Good practices are also exchanged. How do you feel about this initiative? Do you support this? What policies have you already taken to avoid drinking in minors and heavy occasional drinking? Which ones are still on the way to this legislature, because we are a little stuck with the Alcohol Plan? I know that you will refer to the Inter-Ministerial Conference and what goes wrong there, but we need to step up our efforts. That was the reason for asking this question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic707x.u52	Mrs Dedry, the initiative of the European Health Programme is well known and also has the support of the diversity of needs, opportunities and expertise. As a result, the treatment of drug and alcohol problems in Belgium has largely grown bottom-up. This has usually also led to good results in the field. Scientific evidence on the potential and efficiency of local policies is also growing systematically. It is a good thing that this expertise is further explored, pooled and disseminated in the European Member States, because it is a problem everywhere. Two Limburg municipalities entered the project, accompanied by the CAD-Limburg. I hope that they will be successful in doing so and that they will be able to use this as best practices. It would be good to develop more dialogue between municipalities on the policies needed in a city or municipality and to share and use the best practices of the local level by the Länder and the federal level. I asked the general drug policy cell two or three weeks ago to make a brief synthesis of the needs and good practices that already exist at the local level. On the basis of this synthesis, the overall Drugs Policy Cell could also develop actions to make more useful use of the knowledge already available in the field. The exchange of data will also lead to successful measures being implemented in several municipalities or even across the country. As far as the alcohol problem is concerned, I am carrying out what is within my competence. My services are currently working on simplifying the legislation on the sale of alcohol to minors. Now it's unclear. What can one drink from the age of 16 and what can't? That's unclear. What's the difference between a breaker, a cocktail and others? This will be clarified. As regards labelling, consultations should be organised with producers and distributors of alcoholic beverages with a view to indicating on a voluntary basis the minimum age on the labels. This consultation should also discuss the will and the possibility of indicating the energy value. The possibility of an app was also discussed. People are now also scanning wine labels to quickly find out how much that bottle is worth. With an app you can give more information than what is on the label. It could be a good slope to go along with the evolution in electronics. They're working on that, too. There will also be stricter monitoring of alcohol advertising practices by improving the current system of self-regulation. Initiatives will also be taken, such as letting the Public Health Office sit in the Jury for Ethics Practices on Advertising which is currently monitoring compliance with the agreements. In addition, it will also be required to submit any major alcohol advertising campaign prior to the Jury for Ethical Practices on Advertising. The penalties for breach of advertising legislation will also be increased.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic707x.u53	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. After all, you are announcing a number of measures that you can put in place from your own authority when it comes to the Inter-Ministerial Conference. I am very interested in what you have to say about advertising and the tightening of regulations. You say that your services are working towards simplification. Can you put a timing on that, too?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic707x.u54	I cannot do that because it is now difficult to work with the Länder at the level of the Inter-Ministerial Conference, where there are currently pressing political problems. We're trying to continue our work and allow the meetings to take place. But also at the level of the administrations, this leads to more absences and a more difficult way of working. I don't like that. It is already a complicated way of reaching agreements, but I fear that many initiatives will take longer if this situation continues, because other matters are currently being dealt with in the Länder. But at the moment everything does not go according to the usual procedure of consultation with us and with the Länder.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic707x.u55	Madam President, Minister, logoped students and even future logoped students are concerned about the future of their sector. Through the reform of the coordinated law of 10 May 2015 on the exercise of health care professions, a whole series of questions feed their legitimate concerns. Clearly, according to several messages that have come to them, they would no longer be able to practise their profession independently; their profession would become a support profession after a reform such as that experienced by psychotherapy. Many logopeds are involved. They often play a pivotal and central role in relation to the patient, whether he or she is younger or older than they are taking care of. Minister, I would like to hear your position on this. Will you modify the requirements in terms of training of the logopedes in the framework of the former Royal Decree No. 78 reformed by the coordinated law of 10 May 2015? Will you modify the requirements to practice logopedia independently or not? Will you change the requirements for obtaining an INAMI number or not? As many questions as I allow myself to relay here and which come directly from the logopedes but also from the students in the logopedia.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic707x.u56	Mrs Fonck, with the reform of the former Royal Decree No. 78 (coordinated law of 10 May 2015), I wish to move towards a definition of the dynamic, open and positive health professions. This new description will provide competency profiles for each health profession. This profile should be based on the "CanMeds" model as a competency repository adapted to the health care professions. This profile will also be strongly inspired by the definition of the profession in the current legislation. It will also be examined whether and how different professions could have a certain degree of autonomy within the limits of this occupational profile and skills. The competent advisory bodies are already involved in this process. These are the Federal Council for Paramedical Professions and the Technical Commission for Paramedical Professions. The logopedes are represented in both structures. In addition, the advisory bodies within the framework of the reform are replaced by a Health Care Professions Council. It will carry out, with the help of ad hoc, therefore interdisciplinary, working groups composed of representatives of the professions relevant to the opinion and experts. The minimum qualification requirements as currently provided for in the Act remain applicable. In this regard, the Royal Decree of 20 October 1994 is the reference for logopeds. This royal decree defines the minimum qualification requirements for the practice of the profession of logopede and sets out the list of technical services and the acts that a doctor may entrust to a logopede. Since education is a Community competence, the Ministers of Education must therefore ensure that graduates of the various levels of training meet the minimum qualifications requirements laid down in the Royal Decree of 20 October 1994. Logopeds can make proposals through advisory bodies to update minimum qualification requirements, taking into account interdisciplinary collaboration with other health care professions. The opinion bodies have the opportunity to submit an opinion on this matter to me on their own initiative. So there's no reason to worry and I don't know where your concerns come from.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic707x.u57	Thank you, minister, although I must admit that your very general comments leave more open questions than they provide answers. The least we can say is that after several announcements, there is still a lot of confusion about when things can be cleared up. The longer this waiting time will be, the more concerns will increase, especially when you see how you have proceeded. I am thinking, for example, of psychotherapy. I can only insist on one point: if at some point you came up with the idea that the logopedia should be relegated to a support profession, it would be a huge step backwards, first and foremost for the patients concerned, from the youngest to the least young. Logopeds must maintain a central and pivotal role throughout the organization of health care. This is a major issue in education and schooling, but also at other times of life, such as in the case of revalidation and rehabilitation, particularly neurological.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic707x.u58	Madam President, Minister, recently it came to light that sperm donors can donate more than is actually allowed. As you know, the law requires that the number of donations per donor should be limited to six, but that has still not been legally implemented. Donors can therefore go from one fertility centre to another, because donations are of course anonymous and the centres cannot check whether a donor has already been in another centre in the past, because there is no general registration system for all fertility centres. Fertility centres are therefore asking for this to be put into a legal framework as soon as possible. It's the government that has to organize that. The Royal Decree governing the implementation of the medically assisted reproduction law of 2007 provides for the establishment of a central database. Until today, ten years later, this database has not yet been established. Madam Minister, have any steps been taken in the meantime? By what time can we expect this database? What will you do to solve potential problems due to the lack of a general registration system?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic707x.u59	Mrs Van Peel is not here to ask her question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic707x.u60	Madam President, Minister, the previous speaker gave a good introduction to this issue. The witness Mrs Jiroflée mentioned already claimed that he had achieved at least twelve successful pregnancies through his donation. After ten years of application, we do not achieve proper implementation of the law. Have any cases been reported? If so, what measures have you taken to stop such violations? What is the state of play with regard to the establishment of a central information and exchange system between fertility centres in order to effectively monitor the number of donations? Will donations via foreign sperm banks be taken into account? By when do you expect such a system to be operational?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic707x.u61	Madam President, this answer is additional to the answer given to Mrs Van Peel to her question of 26 April. There is indeed a consultation with the Agency for Medicinal Products and the representatives of the College of Reproductive Medicine of the Public Health Office in connection with the establishment of a central donor registration system, in accordance with Articles 35 and 64 of the Law of 6 July 2007 on medically assisted reproduction and the destination of other embryos and gametes. One of the possible avenues is indeed linking the donor data system to the existing system. The advantage is that this system has already entered into force and could therefore be implemented more quickly. The services also consider whether it is possible to make registration a condition for the use of the nomenclature. In that case, donor insemination would only be possible if one registers, to make it complete. The registration system should also be comprehensive for patients who are not covered by the Belgian compulsory health insurance. The nomenclature only applies to patients who remain within the six cycles of treatment, while some do more. Furthermore, I can tell you that the register must in any case fit in with the data structure of the Scientific Institute for Public Health, and by extension Sciensano and the central registration of donors, of gametes coming through a foreign bank, especially from outside the European Union. That number is less, but we must pay particular attention to it. It is also necessary for the services to assess the administrative, logistical and budgetary consequences of the various slopes. Registration must also be operationally feasible for the doctors concerned. Moreover, the privacy of the patient must be respected and so we may need to seek advice from the Privacy Committee. After all, it seems obvious to me that registration is done discreetly. Work is therefore continuing at the level of the FPS and by the representatives of the College of Reproductive Medicine.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic707x.u62	Madam Secretary, thank you for your answer. I'm noticing that they're working on it. For us it is important that privacy and anonymity can be guaranteed, of course with a closed registration system, so that there will be no polydonors running around in our country.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic707x.u63	Madam Minister, I thank you for your reply and hope that things will work out during this legislative period. It may seem easier than it is to link different databases together, while at the same time protecting privacy. However, I can imagine that such a system already exists for other pathologies. I therefore hope that a solution will soon be found, in the interests of the children who are born out of a donation, but who, should they allow each other to meet, do not realize that they are actually brother and sister. These can be the consequences, although of course we can never guarantee anything.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic707x.u64	Minister, mineral oils are mixtures of crude oil consisting of saturated mineral oil (SMO) and aromatic mineral oil (AMO) hydrocarbons. The cantonal laboratory in Zurich has shown that these oils migrating through paper and cardboard packaging and contaminate food. ANSES in France was seized for the production of expertise on the risks associated with the migration of mineral oils and highlighted the genotoxic and mutagenic nature of some of these oils that contaminate food. In 2012, the European Food Safety Authority (EFSA) considered that exposure to these mineral oils was of concern and that measures should be put in place to avoid exposure to these mineral oils. Article 3 of the European Regulation 1934/2004 provides that the migration of packaging elements within packaged food should not endanger human health. We must therefore act. Sixty percent of consumer packaging contains these mineral oils (MOAH). They therefore have an impact on health. I told you, they've been found to be genotoxic and mutagenic. There are recommendations that action should be taken to avoid this migration and exposure. The French Agency recommends the use of inks, glues, additives free of these oils. I am not going to go into the details that explain this migration. It is requested that barriers be placed or excluded from packaging. Are you going to organise a joint action with the Minister of the Economy in charge of consumer protection, to promote alternative methods and to legislate on these anti-migratory barriers that should be placed around our packaged foods with paper with impressions or glues contaminated with these oils?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic707x.u65	Mrs Gerkens, I would remind you that this matter is also the responsibility of the Minister of Agriculture, who is responsible for food chain safety. We have obviously consulted the ministers and I am therefore also responding on behalf of Minister Borsus. A study in which the SPF Public Health, Food Chain Safety and Environment has taken the initiative is under way, through contractual research. The project started in 2016. It will last two years, until the beginning of 2018. During this project, an analytical method for the determination of saturated mineral oil hydrocarbons and aromatic mineral oil hydrocarbons will be validated. As soon as this method is developed, samples taken throughout the food chain will also be analysed. An assessment of their potential genotoxicity and hormonal disrupting activity will be conducted. This study will be the Belgian contribution to European Commission Recommendation No 84 of 2017 on the monitoring of mineral oil hydrocarbons in foodstuffs and in materials and articles intended to come into contact with foodstuffs. Within the framework of this dossier, Belgium is actively working with its European colleagues to draft a Council of Europe resolution on paper and paperboard in order to ensure the safety of products used for food contact. You know that Council of Europe resolutions are not binding. My services will study how to transpose the resolution into national law in order to ensure its implementation. In addition, Belgium is working with the European Commission on a draft regulation on printed materials for food contact with a view to protecting the health of consumers. AFSCA, which is also under the supervision of the Minister of Agriculture, has also applied to the Scientific Committee for the development of action limits for the products I have mentioned, saturated mineral oil hydrocarbons and aromatic mineral oil hydrocarbons. Finally, the Belgian business world is also active. The Belgian federations of the paper and paperboard sector and printing inks have already recommended that their members always use functional barriers in the case of recycled paper and paperboard.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic707x.u66	Madam Minister, I am pleased to see that the problem is actually being dealt with in Belgium. It is important to check what is actually happening at the packaging level. Since studies have already been carried out by ANSES in France, will the same studies be repeated or will they have another status? Is Belgium's contribution to implementing the recommendations of the European Commission and the European Union different from that of France? I feel like all these studies have already been done.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic707x.u67	Many products are examined. We take into account what our neighbouring countries have done. We are not going to do another job that has already been done and that has produced results. We have something else to do because the work remains enormous.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic707x.u68	Question No 19272 by Mrs Renate Hufkens is postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic707x.u69	Madam President, I would like to leave at 5.30 p.m. A consultation with the unions is planned in my office on the issue of non-trade. I want to say hello to them. It's delicate, but it's necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic707x.u70	As no plenary sitting will finally be held next Wednesday, if your bill is ready, we will put it on the Orders of the Day for our committee meeting. Otherwise, we'll ask you some questions, as agreed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic707x.u71	It'll be one or the other.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic707x.u72	Anyway, we'll see each other.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic707x.u73	Minister, there are progestin contraceptive pills (i.e., they do not contain estrogen) for women who are breast-feeding or who cannot take the conventional pill, for example because they are obese, diabetic or because they have too much cholesterol. These pills are just as important as conventional pills to avoid unwanted pregnancies and to limit the use of abortion. They are particularly useful for breast-feeding women because, contrary to a widespread idea, breastfeeding is not automatically contraceptive until the baby is six months old. It is best to use an effective contraceptive method. Curiously, these progestin pills do not have the same reimbursement status as conventional pills. In principle, they are not reimbursed by compulsory insurance. I mention "in principle", because I find that at least one progestative pill is included in the list of the royal decree of 16 September 2013, setting the cost of contraceptives for women who have not reached the age of 21. This pill would therefore qualify for a refund up to 21 years, but not for older women. Minister, what progestin pills are available for breast-feeding women in Belgium? Do they all have the same repayment status? Why do they have a separate reimbursement status from conventional contraceptive pills? If so, why are they reimbursed differently depending on the age of the patient?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic707x.u74	Oral contraceptive progestins, also known as minipills, present in our market are: progestatives based on desogestrel (Cerazette, Celea, Desogestrel Besins, Desopop, Lueva, Nacrez and Saphirena), progestatives based on levonorgestrel, such as Microlut. The pill is mostly indicated, as you said, during the breastfeeding period or in women for whom oestroprogestative associations are contraindicated. For all pills, a supplementary intervention is planned for women from 21 years of age, under the Royal Decree of 16 September 2013 laying down a specific intervention in the cost of contraceptives for women under 21 years of age. In addition, Microlut is also included in the list of reimbursable proprietary medicinal products annexed to the Royal Decree of 21 December 2001 laying down the procedures, time limits and conditions for the intervention of compulsory health care insurance and allowances in the cost of proprietary medicinal products without limitation as to the age of the patient. Oral contraceptive progestins do not in themselves have reimbursement status separate from other pills. This status depends to a large extent on the initiatives taken by the firm holding the marketing authorisation for the pill. The entry of a pill on the list of the royal decree of 16 September 2013 is done according to the terms provided for in this decree, at the request of the firm responsible or at my own request. The inclusion of a pill on the list annexed to the Royal Decree of 21 December 2001 is done, as for the majority of medicinal products, through the submission of an application by the firm responsible to the Commission for the reimbursement of medicinal products, followed by an evaluation of the various criteria. The Commission then makes a reasoned proposal on the basis of which, as Minister for Social Affairs, I take a final decision on reimbursement.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic707x.u75	Thank you, Minister. In this context, from the point of view of contraception, i.e. preventing unwanted pregnancies, all women should be treated equally. I think you have the power to put things down. This should not be related to pharmaceutical companies that determine certain terms and conditions. In my view, it is important to think about the possibility of giving all women the same status and the same chance.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic707x.u76	Madam Minister, the media regularly reports that the number of cases of genital mutilation in Belgium is increasing due to migration. 13 000 women would be circumcised and 4 000 girls and women would be at risk. Your predecessor as Minister for Social Affairs and Health, Mrs Onkelinx, then concluded an agreement with two reference centres known to you, in Ghent and Sint-Pieter in Brussels. I have asked you several times where you stand with the evaluation of the agreement that was concluded with them. My most recent question on this issue dates back to 29 March. In particular, my question about the number of patients has not yet been answered. The same applies to medical and psychosocial care. Can you tell me how many patients are being escorted per center? Can you also say for each centre separately how many sessions took place from 2014 to 2017? Can you also indicate the type of care, both for the medical and for the psychosocial aspects? Will you increase awareness of the reference centres among potential victims? How will you deal with the language barrier and with the fact that not all women are entitled to health insurance? How do you deal with the guidance of these girls so that they do not turn away from further care and guidance?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic707x.u77	In reply to your first question, I have a table showing the number of benefits per year completed for the two reference centres. I also have the figures that run from 2014 to 2017, although I have seen that the UZ Gent for 2017 has not yet transmitted any data. Of course, the numbers are rising. I'll give you that table. Data from the 2015 annual report show that 257 patients visited the reference centres in that year, most of which were accompanied by 222 in Saint Peter and 36 in the UZ in Ghent. However, 58 percent of these patients were not covered by health insurance. Most of them were asylum seekers. Therefore, for these uninsured patients, the reference centres could not charge health care services to the sickness funds. In addition to the information contained in the Centre's annual report, the RIZIV does not have data on these patients because they are not actually known at the RIZIV. In the future, RIZIV will be able to retrieve this information via the IMA data. The annual report of the centres also contains information on the number of consultations with a gynecologist of the reference centres on problems associated with genital mutilation. Data show that 337 consultations with that gynecologist of the reference centre took place in Sint-Pieter in 2015. It was about 222 patients. There were also 47 consultations for patients at the UZ Gent at the reference centre's gynecologist. For insured patients, these consultations may be charged separately, outside the scope of the Agreement, on the basis of the nomenclature. However, these consultations do not form part of the figures given for the number of meetings based on production figures. We have not yet received an annual report for 2016. The benefits in kind provided for under the agreement are medical, psychosocial and reconstructive counseling sessions. The session provides psychosocial care for patients through a multidisciplinary approach. The medical assistance reimbursed through the agreement concentrates more on the reconstructive operation. However, consultations with the doctors of the multidisciplinary team and the other forms of care may be charged separately, outside the scope of the agreement. According to the annual report, the gynecologist conducted 337 consultations in Sint-Pieter in 2015. A midwife also intervened 312 times, a sexologist 68 times. The psychologist intervened 90 times. In the UZ Gent in 2015 it was about 47 consultations with the gynecologist, 18 with the midwife, 6 with the plastic surgeon, I assume it was about recovery surgery, 7 with the sexologist, 6 with the psychologist and 3 with the social nurse. As you can see, very multidisciplinary work is taking place everywhere. The two reference centres for female genital mutilation are also known from the aid organizations which refer women to it. The contact details and the purpose of the agreement are on the website of the RIZIV. The reference centres can be made available on the hospital website, but also via information leaflets. The 2015 annual report shows that 68 percent of patients in Saint Peter are referred to by a gynecologist for 24 %, associations such as GAMS for 24 % or asylum seekers centre for 20 %. You know that people in these centres are also undergoing a physical examination. For the UZ Gent, 25% of the cases are referrals by Fedasil, 25% by the Red Cross and 17% by gynecologists. Hospitals can also call on intercultural mediators to facilitate communication with foreign-speaking patients and patients with a different cultural background. Reference centres may also accompany patients outside the framework of the agreement. Patients who are legally resident in Belgium This can also be about a provisional residence status even if the compulsory insurance does not intervene, in principle other bodies may be entitled to compensation. The procedure for obtaining a legal residence status in Belgium is no longer within my competence.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic707x.u78	Madam Minister, thank you for your comprehensive reply and the figures. It is interesting to note that the reference centres are being consulted. It is striking that there is a big difference between Ghent and Brussels. I don't know what that is. It would be good to check with these organisations why there are fewer referrals in the Flemish language area, perhaps just because of the language? The evaluation has not shown this to date. I suspect that the reference centres will continue. That's absolutely useful. Yesterday I told your colleague Mr Demir that it is good to inform women when applying for asylum, but also men, because it is a kind of taboo in couples. That's what a study showed. In this sense, better results are seen in the Netherlands than in Belgium, where information is too late. I passed that on to Mr Demir. I will also pass it on to Mr Francken.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic707x.u79	In my previous position, we have worked very hard to provide information and talk about it in the asylum centres, from the outset, when we know that it is women who come from countries where circumcisions are taking place. That has always been a focus. I assume she will continue to do the same. We also worked on better information channels at the time, so that people dare to talk about this taboo. There is fear and fear to speak of that, even within a couple. A possible recovery operation may also be discussed. We've been working on that for a long time. I assume that this work will continue, but it is good that you remind Mrs Demir of that.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic707x.u80	It is good that you are concerned, but a European comparison shows that Belgium is less deterred. In the Netherlands it is said that it is explicitly prohibited and that there are penalties. The European study shows that Belgium can make even more use of this. Even if that happens already today, apparently the method in the Netherlands is more convincing. The prevalence in these groups is lower in the Netherlands than in Belgium.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic707x.u81	Minister, I asked you in May 2015 about the legislation relating to advertising of tobacco products in shops and the controls carried out by the Tobacco and Alcohol Inspection Service. In the light of the Law of 24 January 1977 on the protection of consumer health, there is a "ban on advertising tobacco, tobacco products and alcoholic beverages". In this law, "any communication or action which is intended, directly or indirectly, to promote the sale, whatever the place, medium or techniques used shall be regarded as advertising." You then confirmed to me that the exaggerated exposure of tobacco products can indeed also be regarded as advertising and that ordinary businesses such as grocers or night shops are not allowed to do this kind of advertising. You then recalled that the penalties for such offences consist of a minimum administrative fine of 10,000 euros which the officer-in-charge may impose. At the end of your response, you added that your services were awaiting a ruling on a case where FPS officers had issued minutes following the use of special tobacco presentation techniques. This judgment, you said, would clarify things about the use of certain advertising techniques. Minister, do you confirm that the ban on excessive display of tobacco products in store windows in grocery stores and night shops is also valid for alcoholic products? What are the conclusions of the trial judgement that you mentioned in your last response? Is it now a case law? Does the local police have a role to play in these controls?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic707x.u82	Mr Delannois, the prohibition on advertising provided for in Article 7(2)a of the Law of 24 January 1977 does not apply to alcohol. As regards alcohol, the Convention on the Advertising and Marketing of Alcoholic Beverages applies. And, in the area of alcohol advertising, the competent body is the JEP, the Jury of Public Ethics. Article 7(2) of the Law of 24 January 1977 stipulates that all advertising techniques for tobacco are prohibited except for the affixing of the mark on posters inside and on the front of tobacco shops. The ruling of 22 May 2015 against Japan Tobacco International confirms the position of the Tobacco and Alcohol Inspection Service. Indeed, the judgment indicates that special services, such as package lighting, display, rail strip, 3-dimensional presentation are prohibited. Japan Tobacco International has appealed this decision; the appeal has not yet been rendered. The local police do not draw up any CVs in this respect because this legislation is very technical. If the local police encounter problems in this area, they are directed to the Tobacco and Alcohol Inspection Service.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic707x.u83	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. It is true that local authorities often face such problems. For example, in the case of night shops, a whole series of rules can be drawn up, through a general police regulation, to ensure that they do not proliferate anymore, but as in Belgium we are sometimes the ones to evade the law or the general police regulation, what do we do? These night stores become disguised day stores. And these shops, which do not have any permission to ask for a communal power, find themselves in shopping streets. One may wonder how the operators of these stores can manage to rent businesses by giving almost a year's rent in advance and putting only cigarette packages on display. I can understand that a pack of cigarettes is not a problem, but when you put only cigarette packs in the window, I find that we are here as part of the advertising. More and more, to circumvent the general police regulations and establish night shops, night shops are being made disguised during the day. There are other questions that need to be asked. In some day stores, you never see anyone, but these stores don't go bankrupt. I don't think they're miracles.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic707x.u84	Madam Minister, if I ask you about this, it is because decisions have been taken at the level of the Regions first, then, at the federal level, and especially by your colleague, the Minister of Agriculture. On 27 April, he announced that he would shortly propose an order prohibiting the placing on the market and therefore the use of herbicides intended for individuals. The use of glyphosate has already been banned in Wallonia since 1 June 2017 for individuals. The Federal Minister of Agriculture announced that he would effectively prohibit the placing on the market and use of herbicides intended for individuals, with the exception of biopesticides and basic substances such as vinegar, but also herbicides, insecticides, fungicides known to have carcinogenic, mutagenic and reprotoxic effects, namely those classified as CMR2. That being said, I must note that the press continues to broadcast advertising for glyphosate. In discussions with the authorities of the federated entities, the press refused to stop the distribution of these advertisements on the pretext that advertising was allowed. Since it is a federal jurisdiction, you have the means to remedy that. Your intervention is necessary because it requires consistency and logic with the prohibition of the sale and application of glyphosate. It is therefore essential to prohibit the advertising of glyphosate. It should be recalled that, in the field of legislation, a ban must be made by royal decree under the Act of 24 January 1977 on the protection of the health of consumers with regard to foodstuffs and other products. Orders made pursuant to this Act are normally within the direct jurisdiction of the Minister in charge of Public Health. A preliminary step is essential, namely the opinion of the Advisory Council on Food Policy and the Use of Other Consumer Products, which is required for the orders made pursuant to the Act of 24 January 1977, which I have just recalled on the standards of composition, labelling and advertising of foodstuffs and other products covered by the Act. After the two-month period, the notice is no longer required on the basis of Article 22. I conclude, minister, that it is necessary to seek this opinion as soon as possible. In a logic of consistency and effectiveness with the measures taken by your colleague, Minister Borsus, do you intend to act to ban the advertising of glyphosate? In the same way, will you prohibit the advertising of all herbicides intended for individuals, with the exception of biopesticides and basic substances such as vinegar, as well as CNRII products for insecticides, fungicides and herbicides? This must be done in advance. Do you intend to seek the opinion of the Advisory Council as soon as possible, in accordance with the law of 24 January 1977? You are fully responsible for this, and it cannot be imagined for a moment that the minister whose objective must be first and foremost public health does not take these bans on advertising.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic707x.u85	You know that the file is being processed by my colleague Minister Borsus and myself. We're both competent. Today, glycophosphate herbicides are authorized by federal authorities. This authorisation shall apply to marketing and use. It is true that we intend to limit the supply of non-professional herbicides. This limitation will also affect herbicides based on glyphosates and others, if necessary. The law already prohibits any advertising of plant protection products that are not authorized. In accordance with Article 66 of European Regulation No 1107/2009 concerning the placing of plant protection products on the market, unauthorised plant protection products shall not be advertised. Article 57(1) of the Royal Decree of 28 February 1994 on the conservation, placing on the market and use of pesticides for agricultural use provides that any commercial advertising, in any form whatsoever, in respect of products covered by this Order, which are not approved or for which parallel importation is not authorized, is prohibited. It was therefore absolutely unnecessary to adopt a specific royal order prohibiting the advertising of herbicides, for which the authorization will be revoked, in accordance with the order announced by Minister Borsus and myself. Even today, an article in Sudpresse referred to the tracks he was working on and the timetable for progress. The revocation of authorizations will automatically lead to the prohibition of advertisements. We are making good progress in this area. There are still some ongoing consultations and once the texts are validated, they will pass to the Council of Ministers and then to the Council of State, before reaching Parliament. You have referred to a law, but I do not know if it will be effective for what we want to do. We want to protect citizens from the harmful effects of glyphosate used in gardens but not in food. I'll have to find out, but I don't think you've referred to the right law.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic707x.u86	Minister, if I follow you correctly, the federal government's first communication on glyphosate – a very clear ban announcement – is dated April 27. It is July and I am therefore surprised to hear that there are still consultations. Of which act. The communication appears to have been precipitated and/or there appears to be procrastination within the federal government. As far as advertising is concerned, you do not refer to the provision which, through the Act of 24 January 1977, requires a royal decree to prohibit advertising for these products. I quickly noted the information you gave. You invoke Articles 66 or 57 – no matter what – at European level. You do not, of course, answer me, but you seem to say that there is no action to be taken and that the ban on advertising would be immediate and that you should not operate it, even under the law of 24 January 1977, which itself obliges to make royal orders to lead to a ban on advertising. I will have the discrepancy between the two references you have given and another well-known mechanism of Belgian legislation checked in legal terms. We were talking about tobacco earlier. Even though we don't swallow it, we inhale it, it is directly the law that allows it. Glyphosate, you don't swallow it, you inhale it. So that's why I'm setting a parallel. I will therefore table a motion for a recommendation. I'll freeze it for the plenary if the legal checks go in your direction. In the meantime, I would have done the necessary checks. Madam Chair, I move this motion. On the other hand, minister, I can only encourage the government to move forward because the decisions announced in April are still not being taken. I also urge the government to check legally that the Act of 24 January 1977 will not be necessary to prohibit advertising.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic707x.u87	In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. A motion for recommendation was tabled by Ms. Catherine Fonck and reads as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the inquiry of Ms. Catherine Fonck and the response of the Minister of Social Affairs and Public Health, asks the government - to seek the opinion of the Advisory Council on food policy and the use of other consumer products as soon as possible; - to take the necessary measures to prohibit: the advertising of glyphosate, the advertising of all herbicides intended for individuals, with the exception of biopesticides and basic substances such as vinegar, and the advertising of herbicides, insecticides, fungicides classified as CMR2 (carcinogens, mutagens and reprotoxics)." A motion of recommendation was tabled by Mrs Catherine Fonck and reads as follows: "The Chamber, heard the interplay of Mrs Catherine Fonck and the reply of the Minister for Social Affairs and Health, calls on the Government - to seek advice from the Advisory Council on Food Policy and Use of Other Consumer Products as soon as possible; - take the necessary measures to prohibit the following advertising: advertising of arthropods, advertising of all herbicides intended for private use, with the exception of biopesticides and basic substances such as vinegar, and advertising of herbicides, insecticides and fungicides classified as CMR2 products (with carcinogenic, mutagenic or reprotoxic effects).' A simple motion was tabled by Mr. Dirk Janssens. A simple motion was tabled by Mr Dirk Janssens. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed. The motions will be voted on later. The meeting's over.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic707x.u88	Madam President, I propose that my question no. 19380 be turned into a written question. Can I defer my other questions to next week? This will leave room for other colleagues.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic707x.u89	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Fonck's 19381 is postponed. Merged Questions No. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mrs Muylle's 19609 question was withdrawn, at least by Mrs Van Peel. Debates of the European Parliament Mrs van Peel's 19383 on emergency services has been withdrawn. Mrs Van Camp is not present for her question No. 1938 to be put to the vote. We didn't get a message from her either. Debates of the European Parliament 19407 by Mrs Gerkens is postponed at her request. Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Fonck's 19417 is being postponed. Debates of the European Parliament 19477 by Mrs Cassart-Mailleux, at her request, will be converted into a written question. Mrs Van Camp is not present for her question No. 19495. We shall then come to the combined questions. 19543 by Mrs Jiroflée, No. 19566 by Mrs Van Peel, who is no longer present, and No. 19657 of myself.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic707x.u90	Mrs Van Peel is not here.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic707x.u91	Madam Secretary, more than 84 percent of doctors in our country were once victims of physical or psychological violence by patients. It's about verbal violence, blackmail, putting pressure on real physical violence and even sexual assault. We know this from the thesis of a medical student at the VUB, who questioned 3 726 doctors. The figures may not be entirely representative of the entire medical corps. They have a lot to do with the way people work and where they work, but they give a pretty good indication of what is happening in cabinets and living rooms. This is also confirmed by the General Medical Association of Ghent, which organised a similar survey on a smaller scale, but reached the same conclusions. The Flemish Doctors Syndicate also confirms it. This is why I am asking this question. The same Flemish Doctoral Syndicate is now calling for a comprehensive approach to the problem. Madam Secretary, have you taken note of the results of this investigation? Maybe there were other similar investigations? I don't know if the results are similar? The sector is putting forward a number of possible measures, such as training, an emergency app, and a night-time work schedule with two always working, although we know that this is not always practical and much more expensive. However, at least there is a strong demand to tackle the problem with the sector. Have you taken any initiatives in this respect?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic707x.u92	Madam Minister, I will add my question. The introduction has, of course, already been outlined by our colleague. This is indeed a problem that is growing. It's about guilt-inducing behavior, threats, insults, reproaches, and so on. 3700 doctors were questioned, and that number is not nothing. That's quite a steel. Madam Secretary, what is your opinion and how concerned are you after seeing the figures of this investigation? Will you take measures to change this? If so, what and according to what timing? I also wonder how you can integrate this into the training of doctors, so that more attention is paid to how people communicate with patients in a timely manner. Finally, I would also like to link the audit of the general practitioners' watch stations. I wonder whether this will be taken into account. In some cities, the risk of violence is, of course, much greater than in others. That is, for example, one of the elements that could explain that one post has higher costs than the other.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic707x.u93	Mrs Jiroflée, Mrs Dedry, frame the results of the research in a master's degree in general medical practice at the VUB. They were announced in the meantime. The purpose of the survey was to obtain up-to-date figures on the violence against doctors in Belgium. We now have an idea of the scale of the problem, as well as of the various forms of violence against doctors and of the profile of the violent. Similar initiatives are, of course, a good way of identifying the problem even better. You know that the number of police reports was just the tip of the iceberg: few doctors go this far. The administration was asked to discuss these results in the Working Group at the FPS Home Affairs regarding the safety of the care providers, in which my people participate. The aim of this working group is to promote the safety of doctors and other health professionals. It is not just about doctors, it is also about home care; in fact it is about everyone who comes to the house or does such a job outside hospitals. For example, they are the midwifery. The data collected through the created hotline of the Order of Doctors, which also participates in the working group, can also be used in the further discussion of measures to be taken. A brochure on training and conflict management techniques for general practitioners has already been prepared. Of course, there must also be an informative campaign on patients. In the end, the aggression usually comes from a patient or someone who lives with the patient. We will continue to consult with Ministers Jambon and Geens, who are also involved in this dossier, to conclude multidisciplinary agreements at government level. We're working on it. I would also like to remind you of the 112 BE app to notify the police if you have seen anything suspicious and can also be used by emergency workers. In the app you can mention useful information, such as the fact that one has a risk profession. If someone calls, it's possible he's in an emergency. Such things can be mentioned and with two pushes on the button you will end up with the police.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic707x.u94	Madam Secretary, the app exists. How was she made available by the FOD?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic707x.u95	The app has been provided free of charge by the FPS Health and the FPS Home Affairs. They just need to be downloaded. The app only works on Belgian territory. One can opt for police, fire department or ambulance, but one can also fill in his data in advance, so that, as soon as one calls, one can immediately know if one is pursuing a risk profession.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic707x.u96	That seems to me to be a very good instrument. I note that you will continue to work on this. That's absolutely necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic707x.u97	It will indeed be interesting to monitor these data, to keep up with them. I will put a follow-up question on this within a few months. I have not yet received an answer to my question about the differences in the audit of GPs, do you take into account the fact that in regions where there are risks of violence, the costs of GPs are thereby increased?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic707x.u98	For the general practitioners-guards where a driver is called on for safety reasons, that is indeed a cost. We know that there are also general practitioners' guards without special transport. Yeah, that element's being taken away. That's all there is to it anyway.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-05-54-commissie-ic707x.u99	We'll finish here. I'll be right on time next time to start my question about Dieselgate.
