ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-13-54-plenair-ip180x.u1	The meeting is open. The meeting was opened.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-13-54-plenair-ip180x.u2	Without report Not related
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-13-54-plenair-ip180x.u3	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-13-54-plenair-ip180x.u4	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2467/1) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2467/1) The draft law has 4 articles. The bill has four articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-13-54-plenair-ip180x.u5	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-13-54-plenair-ip180x.u6	A limited general discussion was held in accordance with Rule 116 of the Rules of Procedure. Pursuant to rule 116, the bill is subject to limited general discussion.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-13-54-plenair-ip180x.u7	The limited general discussion is open. The limited general discussion is open. The rapporteurs are Mr. Van Biesen and Mr Piedboeuf. They refer to the written report. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The limited general discussion is closed. The limited general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-13-54-plenair-ip180x.u8	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2476/3) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2476/3) The draft law has 6 articles. The bill has six articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-13-54-plenair-ip180x.u9	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-13-54-plenair-ip180x.u10	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Mr Veli Yüksel, rapporteur, referred to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-13-54-plenair-ip180x.u11	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today the House is about to vote for an important text which confirms the imposition of the action plans and the implementation of the security measures at Brussels Airport Company. As you know, following the attacks of 22 March 2016, a series of additional security measures were imposed on Brussels Airport Company as an operator of the Brussels-National airport. These measures were taken in the form of a security plan of the National Security Council and instructions from the Federal Police, as well as through instructions from the DGTA. However, these measures result in Brussels Airport Company facing an increase in costs which was unfortunately not foreseen or foreseeable during the last tariff consultation. Furthermore, it is also essential to confirm the principle of retroactivity of measures aimed at ensuring the safety and security of airport facilities. We thus avoid compromising the profitability of the operation. This bill, introduced by Minister Bellot, is timely and our group welcomes it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-13-54-plenair-ip180x.u12	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-13-54-plenair-ip180x.u13	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2505/3) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2505/3) The title in Dutch was changed by the Committee in draft law confirming the imposition of the action plans and the implementation of the security measures of Brussels Airport Company. In order to confirm the imposition of the action plans and the implementation of the security measures of Brussels Airport Company. The draft law has two articles. The bill has two articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-13-54-plenair-ip180x.u14	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-13-54-plenair-ip180x.u15	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteur, Mr Flahaux, referred to his written report. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-13-54-plenair-ip180x.u16	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2520/3) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2520/3) The draft law has 3 articles. The bill has three articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-13-54-plenair-ip180x.u17	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-13-54-plenair-ip180x.u18	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteur, Mr Vandenput, referred to the written report. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? ) The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-13-54-plenair-ip180x.u19	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2542/3) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2542/3) The draft law has 16 articles. The bill has 16 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-13-54-plenair-ip180x.u20	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-13-54-plenair-ip180x.u21	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteurs are Mr Dirk Janssens and Mrs Ann Vanheste. They shall refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-13-54-plenair-ip180x.u22	Mr President, ministers, ladies and gentlemen, we are in an extraordinary moment. I was a Martian in this Commercial Law Commission. I like these subjects very much, but as I explained to colleagues and the minister, I do not have the basic skills in accounting, business management, etc. Nevertheless, I appreciated the way the work was carried out. This is often the case in this committee, which seeks explanations, tries to understand and find concrete solutions. Minister, I was very surprised by this insolvency bill, because it was already incorporating future amendments to the Corporate Code that are not yet being introduced. It would probably have been more logical for things to happen in the other direction. This would have allowed us to know what we were talking about and the scope of the amendments thus incorporated. However, discussions on this project have shown that there is sense in proposing such a reform of the Bankruptcy Act and the Business Continuity Act. For my part, I have retained the following elements. Firstly, the simplification and centralisation of all provisions in the same text. Secondly, focusing this policy on support for second chance. In order for this support to materialise, the text provides for a real possibility of relaunching a new activity even if a bankruptcy procedure is involved. It authorizes the person to borrow and allows the person to benefit from the cancellation of his or her debts, in lieu of the bankrupt's former excusability procedures. This is interesting and positive, as is also the fact that all organisations, all companies – you also target all associations, non-profit organisations and foundations – all structures with a so-called commercial activity can benefit from these measures. This can do good, especially for the NSOs. Of course, this has led us to question whether the specificities of this non-market sector are sufficiently taken into account, which, although it is now also characterised by commercial activities, is not used to looking at itself from this point of view. We have made a great deal of effort to ensure that, during the various stages and in the selection of stakeholders for the various procedures for reorganization, prevention, judgement and action, these characteristics are taken into account and that members of the commercial tribunal, curators and other stakeholders who are aware of this reality of the non-market and the non-profit sector are selected. Today, you have kept your promise, made in committee, to table an amendment to take account of knowledge or competence in the sectors concerned, in any case at the level of the curators, knowing that we see in particular the non-profit organisations. But, you are right, there are other sectors that must be able to be taken into account in their specificities. You have also agreed to withdraw from the bill a measure that we consider to be positive with regard to the objectives pursued, namely, the silent or discreet procedure, which would allow us to prepare, in a limited time, the continuation, resumption or reorganization of the company before even making public the state of its difficulties. In this way, once the situation was published, catastrophic for the company, solutions could have been found beforehand. Here are the pitfalls for which there has been no satisfactory solution: how can we integrate workers into this kind of situation, knowing that they must be integrated into choices, that the objectives are to maintain employment and to resume activity, while maintaining confidentiality? It was indeed wise on your part to withdraw this chapter, in order to take the time to find a formula that respects both the conciliation procedures, the effectiveness of discreet measures as planned and also to avoid certain abuses that might result from this discretion and the decisions taken there if not all the terms are well weighed. It is obvious that in terms of reorganization and bankruptcy, the rights of workers and whether or not to continue their contract (and in what form) must be effectively respected in accordance with the terms of collective agreements and the procedures in progress that protect their rights. We have also insisted on taking into account the specificities of small structures, be they ASBL, small enterprises such as SMEs or TPEs. Elements of the text take account of these specificities. Further efforts and clarification could have been made to meet these challenges, especially in terms of accountability. In my view, it is interesting for entrepreneurs and managers of companies to be held accountable for the need to avoid bankruptcies, since they are offered and the emphasis here is on debt write-off, second chance, etc. But it is also difficult to determine when a small entrepreneur should have known that his company was going wrong and should have taken the most effective measures. The text has been relaxed, but it seems to me that more time would have been needed. In addition, these provisions should be more detailed. I have the impression that there is a lack of consideration of these different situations and a lack of suitable solutions. Perhaps what the text provides may be enough, but at the same time, we do not know. This is what disturbs me, because I have the impression that the preliminary study, the exchanges and the reflections have not always focused on the precise situations that the smallest actors can experience – as I said for the ASBLs, but it also applies to small businesses. There are, of course, indications to identify and list companies that are going badly and for which difficulties are expected. To that end, a central insolvency registry is planned. Similarly, thanks to their new role, chambers of inquiry for firms in difficulty will be able to intervene more quickly and in a more demanding way. That is why you have agreed to postpone the coming into force of the Act, so that all these tools have time to become operational. In conclusion, we will abstain. We recognize the value of the text and the many advances it entails. In addition, some choices have been delayed to promote more useful solutions. However, there are still some questions about which I have not obtained enough appeasement as to the consideration of the smallest players in terms of the accountability of companies and the support they will be able to benefit from.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-13-54-plenair-ip180x.u23	Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I shall be brief. Our Committee on Commercial Law has met half a dozen times to examine in depth the bill to insert Book XX "Insolvency of enterprises" into the Code of Economic Law. This text constitutes the first part of a triptych - the other two parts of which are expected to come to fruition here in the second half of the year - which generally reform business legislation. Indeed, it is not only a matter of inserting the said Book, but also of modernising its content. The guidelines of this reform aim to make insolvency law more coherent, comprehensible and readable. Second, they aim to modernize the insolvency file in general. The reform also broadens the scope of insolvency proceedings. It extends it to all enterprises, to all traders, whether natural or legal persons, farmers, non-profit organisations and professions. It also promotes second chance, encourages entrepreneurship and allows a new start. Often, bankruptcy is perceived negatively. Second chance entrepreneurship therefore becomes more meaningful when you use this bankruptcy to bounce back and learn from your failures. Nor should the text be used to allow fraudulent bankruptcies. It is this balance that has been achieved in the text presented today, in particular through an amendment accepted by the Minister in the parliamentary debates. Another important element of this reform is the fact that it allows for the conclusion of amicable agreements outside the judicial reorganization procedure, thereby reducing the burden on the courts. There are also other more specific developments: a coherent body of rules on directors' liability; a better understanding of the insolvency dimension, notably through international collaboration; the elimination and clarification of a whole series of case law disputes which ultimately made the cauliflowers of lawyers' newspapers. I sincerely believe that, at the end of this long-term work, we now have a good, balanced text which really modernises the procedure and which also allows the actors to benefit from a modern text and not to fall into the wrongs denounced in the past. I thank the Minister for the constructive nature of the discussions. Mr Laaouej has already had the opportunity this afternoon to thank him in committee. I would like to associate myself with these thanks. In particular, the Minister has allowed for a large number of amendments to be taken into account. I have not noted how many of them have been, but several dozen amendments have been accepted, whether they come from the opposition benches or from the majority. This is rare enough to underline. He also provided clear answers. It gave a very constructive character to the discussions. I am thinking in particular, Mr Laaouej, of the deletion of the chapter on silent bankruptcy that was being called for. The Minister agreed to eliminate this chapter. The concerns expressed by some groups around the table have been taken into account in depth. Thanks to the constructive nature of both the majority and the opposition, I stress, we can address with optimism the last two parts of the triptych, which will be presented in the course of the second half of the year. We vote first and look positively at the next two. Mr President, in a few words, this is the position of the MR on the text. It seems to me that this is a major step forward in the area of insolvency. It goes without saying that the MR will unequivocally support this text. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-13-54-plenair-ip180x.u24	Mr President, I would like to join Mr Clarinval in welcoming the provision made by the Minister throughout the proceedings, with a fruitful dialectic which has enabled the text to be improved. I also greet the great listening which was his and that of his team. Of course, there are positive points: modernisation of the law through a substantial codification work, consolidation of different bodies of bankruptcy legislation, and the law on business continuity. All this leads to a more coherent, logical and readable set. Moreover, it will be recalled that expert hearings preceded the political discussion of the bill. That should also be stressed. Another positive aspect is the new, more modern concept of enterprise, which will now be more in line with our economic realities. We therefore depart from this old notion of a merchant, which was indeed a time-old one and which was no longer adapted to contemporary realities. I will also note the improved screening and follow-up of firms in difficulty in order to prevent any difficulties upstream. Prevention is better than cure, and if we can take the problem as soon as possible, we can only rejoice. This can avoid economic and social damage. Doctrinal points of controversy have been settled, it's not nothing. I am not going to take stock of it here, I am referring to the work that we have done in committee. This allowed, at the time of the passage of this bill, to clarify a number of things and to put an end to controversies in jurisprudence or even doctrine. The integration of Regulation 2015/848 on cross-border insolvency proceedings is also not negligible. There were broad and intense discussions on the issue of silent bankruptcy. The government's objective was, through this kind of confidential procedure, to be able to prevent a company from going bankrupt and to try to ensure its continuity. From this point of view, a number of differences have emerged, particularly as regards the application or not of a European directive and the collective agreements which translate it. Finally, I am pleased that the organisations representing the workers we have interviewed have been heard, as regards their willingness to ensure that workers' rights are safeguarded, in particular their right to information, which is not negligible. I welcome the fact that, on the part of the majority and the government, it was clear that there was a need to deepen the issue in order to ultimately lead to the withdrawal of this party. This does not mean that it will not come back, but I imagine that it will then be under conditions which will be clarified in terms of the case law and the position of the Court of Justice. Indeed, as you know, a file is pending. That said, we must be intellectually honest. What is before the Court of Justice is not a case in all respects comparable to what has been submitted to us. Nevertheless, there were points of similarity that made the legislator prudent. And, in my opinion, it is never wrong to work in this direction. Beyond that, there are still a number of criticisms. We know them. That is, moreover, the reason why we will abstain. The issue of LLSOs raises a significant concern about the insolvency proceedings found in Book XX of the new Code of Economic Law. In fact, tomorrow it will be possible to declare the large or small ASBLs of the non-market sector in bankruptcy as well as of the liberal professions, which can, of course, lead them to judicial reorganization procedures. Why do we have fears? Because we consider that the scheme in place is not necessarily adapted to the non-market sector, to individuals and to small non-profit organisations, and that perhaps it would have been necessary to take account of the specific nature of a sector that is mercantile in relation to a sector that is not. However, it must also be recognized that improvements have been made. These improvements include the amendment that has been accepted and that relates to insolvency practitioners (curators, consular judges) to ensure that they are trained in the specific areas of non-trade when they are appointed. In other words, there will be profiling to ensure that the persons designated under these procedures are familiar with these sectors. Let us also stress the Minister's commitment to lowering the role rights for judicial reorganization procedures and to reducing them to zero. We know that at the moment, it's 1,000 euros. Things should be put into practice in the Finance Committee. I imagine that initiatives will be taken in the coming days, perhaps tomorrow or even in plenary next week. I would remind you that tomorrow, at second reading, we are looking at a piece of legislation on registry fees. Perhaps this is an opportunity to adopt the desired changes. Another important point in terms of adaptation is the composition of the commercial court, with the Minister's commitment to ensure that consular judges specialize in the non-market sector. There is also the principle of a study that will have to assess, after two years, the effect of the law on non-profit organizations. The amendment should be dealt with in plenary. It is an amendment by the rest that we have co-signed because we believe it is important to assess the impact of this important legislative amendment on the non-market sector and the non-profit organisations in particular. From the point of view of accountability, we point to the increased responsibility of the leaders of ASBL. It's not nothing. We have stressed that we must be able to ensure that there is not an equally distributed professionalisation in the non-market sector. There are NSOs that are so large that they are truly professional in management. Others are not aware of this particularity and, unfortunately, the bill does not take it sufficiently into account, which I believe is an element of fear that persists. This fear is all the more justified because it could have the effect - I am not saying that it is the intention of the legislator or of the project under consideration - of driving away a number of candidates for the management of the NSAs. Increasing the responsibilities of ASBL managers could have the effect of driving away from the voluntary sector people who engage by volunteering, by adhering to disinterested social or philanthropic objectives because they would fear that, at the slightest mistake, their responsibility would be more serious than it is today. Be careful, therefore, not to hinder engagement in the association. We know how important this is to the vitality of our civil society and, in general, our society. However, an amendment was accepted for the exception to liability provided for in Article 227. It provides for an exception to the increased liability of the NSAs, which maintain simplified accounting under the 1921 Act. We look forward to it. In other words, the fears of various opposition parties have been taken into account, which has given rise today to the acceptance of an amendment, which will allow small associations to be relieved of their responsibilities. It will be regretted that the exception to Article 227, however, does not exist for Article 230 as regards SMEs. The same reasoning could have been followed. However, things have not changed from this point of view. With regard to the control of the House of Companies in difficulty, it will be regretted that the second reading allowed the government to add the application of the law of 17 May 2017, which strongly opposed us – Mr Clarinval, you will remember – regarding the procedure for the dissolution of all companies, which is now also applicable to the ASBLs. This means that an ASBL, which does not enter its accounts within seven months of the end of the financial year, may be the subject of an application for dissolution. However, this kind of red tape is known. They are, of course, mandatory. This is not a question of exonerating the so-called ASBL from their obligations, but we know that because of the hazards of life, it may not always be the responsibility of the managers not to see the accounts deposited. I am thinking, for example, of the deterioration of the manager's health, of the accounting officer's failure. I am thinking of a whole series of other hazards, which should have led the authors of the draft to take account of the comments we had made and to examine, in such circumstances, the possibility of slightly extending the deadline, obviously considering that it is necessary to force the NSOs to put their annual accounts in order as soon as possible, while drawing their attention to the sanction of a dissolution, with all that this may represent in terms of the disappearance of the NSO, of job losses and may result as unwanted collateral damage. There are a number of other points, which I could insist on, but I will refer to the work of the committee. In addition, a debate took place and this option was assumed by the authors of the draft: tomorrow, the NSAs will be the subject of a judicial reorganization procedure. In other words, all bankruptcy law will be applied to the NSOs. It's a novelty. This is an option that has been taken. It was not in itself criticized. We simply wanted to add a number of safeguards. In conclusion, the proportionate balance aimed at establishing rules that establish the transparency and accountability of managers in the management of an organisation, while not making the legislation that would weaken citizens' initiatives more complex and tougher, was particularly difficult to find. You've made choices. We wanted these choices to be a little different. Nevertheless, overall progress must be welcomed. We have no doubt that, at the end of the evaluation, the cursor can be moved slightly in the direction of a balance taking better account of the parameters I have mentioned. I will not conclude without addressing the issue of organizations without legal personality. It should be remembered that the experts and the Council of State were particularly critical on this point. In other words, applying all the law of bankruptcy and all the law of judicial reorganization and insolvency to organizations without legal personality is a leap that you are making, which you have motivated, is unquestionable, but which could still at some point lead to a conflict with fundamental elements of our legal order, in particular with the principle of the uniqueness of the assets. The principle of the uniqueness of the heritage is today undermined by the fact that you subject organizations without legal personality to the scope of your law. It's not nothing. It seems to me that it will also have to be possible to analyse the situation in due course. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, that is what I wanted to tell you. I could, of course, talk about a whole series of things. We are facing a particularly dense bill. We could also talk about the registers that are kept in commercial courts, but I think that the work and exchanges that we have had in committee will show how far none of the issues in this bill has escaped the debate that I recall was constructive. For all these reasons, Mr Minister, we will refrain from paying tribute, I repeat again, to the quality of the work that has been done in committee, a quality of work which, to a large extent, is also a reflection of your willingness to debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-13-54-plenair-ip180x.u25	Mr President, excuse me for being a little late. You have offered us dinner, and we have been happy to accept it and were not here for the report. Like my colleague, however, I would have referred to the written report. Minister, we are satisfied with the thrust of the proposed reform. Insolvency law reform is a matter of urgency. After a second reading, luckily that was there, the concept of so-called silent bankruptcy was removed, as a result of a case before the European Court of Justice, initiated by a Dutch trade union, whose judgment arrived just in time for our discussions. The whole article on silent bankruptcy was therefore deleted, and that voted in favour of the whole reform of bankruptcy legislation, which is now on the vote. Free professions can also go bankrupt, as well as non-profit organisations. This has been described by many as a good thing. Non-profit organisations and foundations which are in an insolvent situation are also called to court. However, the timetable imposed does not seem realistic at all. The short seven-month timetable, which we approved in the Chamber last month, is also intended to apply to non-profit organisations and foundations. For the sake of clarity, it was then about shutting down ghost companies, where it can be seen quite quickly whether or not it is about kosher companies. Small non-profit organisations and foundations can't be compared to ghost companies, can they? They are already subject to the obligation to convene their governing boards and general meetings to examine the approval and submission of the annual accounts within a legally defined time limit. The procedures for winding up a non-profit organisation or foundation also require time and that is going to be really tight by seven months. Minister, the text represents a major step forward with the digitisation of bankruptcy declarations and the possibility for entrepreneurs to start over, but there remain too many uncertainties for non-profit organisations. Therefore sp.a will abstain. Finally, I take my hat off for the trade unions, who informed us in good time that the concept of silent bankruptcy was detrimental to the workers.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-13-54-plenair-ip180x.u26	Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, this project is important qualitatively and quantitatively. More than 900 pages of documents have been submitted to our committee. I would like to recall some of the elements of this insolvency project and to conduct a critical analysis of our work, and above all of the text resulting from this committee. I believe that the project that is on the table today goes beyond the objective of improving existing insolvency law, since in fact the aim is to extend the scope significantly. It's an innovative element. This scope of insolvency is extended to include non-profit organizations, even associations, professional professions and farmers. It's an important element. We do recognize in this project the potential advances in access to insolvency proceedings for NSOs that ensure the continuity of their activities and services rendered. It must be recognized that this is a step forward in relation to the whole or nothing of the previous situation. Everyone knows that the court of first instance was competent. It was dissolution or we were trying to rebuild what was left of the activity. These NSOs were indeed facing difficulties in climbing the slope. They had to dissolve altogether, with the significant impact that it had on the beneficiaries of their services, that is, on users, or on "customers", if you allow me the expression, and on the staff of society as a whole. The work in committee has led to a number of amendments in favour of the NSAs. We have presented them, defended them and, for the most part, they were adopted unanimously in committee. In fact, each of us felt the work done by this important associative world; I will come back to the trading sector later, but you will understand why I start with the other, which is so close to my heart. We have tabled amendments, which I have defended on behalf of the CDH. I would like to return to those who seemed important to me, in particular the first, referring to more proportionality in the responsibility of the directors of associations in order to allow a fair balance and not to obliterate the future of the world of associations. Everyone knows that all volunteers, who work in the associative world and are managers of ASBL, are people who are committed to the common well-being. Another amendment I would like to stress is the exception to the wrongful trading, i.e. when the administrator knew or had to know that there was no reasonable prospect of preserving the business or its activities, nor of avoiding bankruptcy, particularly for small ASBLs, i.e. those which keep simplified accounts with amounts of balance sheet base and turnover as provided for in the text. These amendments also provide for an exception to the liability of directors in the event of serious and serious misconduct for small CBHAs. It's an important element. But during the discussion - and this is also the advantage of the hearings that we may have had - the attention was drawn by the people who came to express themselves (whether it be the commercial court, lawyers, revisers or ASBL specialists) over the importance of guaranteeing on the part of the curators an experience specific to the sector to which the company belongs. Minister, in this triptych - we have the first part today and we are waiting for the other two - the fact that the curator can benefit from experience in the sector to which the association belongs is an important element. And when the insolvency proceedings are aimed at this association, it will have to demonstrate management knowledge in the non-market sector. We're arriving in a completely new area. These are elements unknown to the commercial court. Therefore, this sensitivity of the non-market will indeed be required. We have also planned an assessment of the appropriateness of the insolvency proceedings of the NSOs by you, Minister of Justice, two years after the coming into force of this text. An evaluation text will be provided to the Chamber a posteriori, including avenues for reflection, reorientation and adaptation of this text to reflect the reality of the field. Nevertheless, Minister, the importance of the project and the impossibility of predicting all its impacts, as well as the fear of the subsequent aspect of the reform of company law and associations of which it is a beginning, raise questions and justify a debate to move forward in this context. Minister, this text is the change of a paradigm, since it is a change of philosophy that sees any form of private-sector public activity as entrepreneurship and any form of organization around this activity as well as the business. Today's reform changes the association's historical foundation – the 1921 law – and contributes to a more marketable vision of the non-market sector. The influence of economic law is increasingly spreading to non-profit organisations, whether through European competition law, accounting rules or registration in the business register via the Banque-Carrefour des Entreprises. We have the impression that the non-market sector is entering the world of business law and that there is a risk of diluting the intrinsic characteristics of the associative approach, which constitutes its DNA, in the whole economy. We do not wish to join such a movement. Associations have a raison d'être, a social object, a goal to achieve: to create a social bond. It should be recalled that the purpose of the ASBLs is to pursue a general interest and are intrinsically different from those companies which, by nature, work for the benefit of shareholders. Associations have a social purpose as primacy and the unselfishness of volunteers is the foundation of these structures. I have doubts and wonder that the goal of simplification that is part of the bill today is to incorporate the law of associations into a single Company Code and the Code of Economic Law. We could have done otherwise. It could have been said that there was the merchant world and the non-market world and had identical formulas or procedures, but each one remained in its own action. Indeed, the view is changed since associations are now allowed to engage in profit-making business activities and the lack of profit distribution to managers will become the sole criterion for qualifying such associations. Even if I think and we think that improvements should be made in the framework of the legislation on non-profit organisations, should we come to this and risk transforming the DNA of the voluntary sector? The intention in this sector, the higher goal is the unselfishness that drives the associative engagement. We believe that they cannot be reduced to purely economic criteria such as the distribution of benefits. Since 1921, the word ASBL has been a real label. It has the capacity to mobilize voluntary and above all voluntary work, work done for a cause whose higher values make so much sense to the volunteer that it finds its remuneration in achieving the social objective. This voluntary commitment enables goods or services not offered by the government and/or the trading sector to be offered. I therefore hope that, in the context of future work, this activity, which plays a fundamental and essential role in our society, will not be stifled. I therefore wonder about these principles of simplification. Indeed, the non-commercial nature of the main activity of a BLSO is no longer important. This criterion, which is now an integral part of the definition of the ASBL, is used to qualify associations with respect to several support measures. I have some concerns about the fact that the simplification that is being pursued is to postpone the complexity of the more subjective assessment of the social object to other levels, to be carried out by the subsidising authorities. In other words, I fear that the complexity will continue. Minister, I strongly urge you to establish safeguards that can reduce the risk to NSOs. I'll give you three of them. We discussed them in committee with my colleagues. They do not apply in this debate, but in the...
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-13-54-plenair-ip180x.u27	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-13-54-plenair-ip180x.u28	Mr. Laaouej, thank you. We were present and attentive. We will first ensure that the voluntary sector is not subject to ISOC on its own initiative. You told me. I would therefore like to urge you. Secondly, volunteerism and the related 2005 law should not be weakened. This is an essential requirement for us. Finally, you must not question the concept of "social society", introduced by the 1995 Act. These are three beacons I set for your future projects. We also expect the federal government to inform the Regions and the Communities - in particular the Wallonia-Brussels Federation - about your proposed reform. Indeed, the consequences of the measures under way on the regulations of the federated entities - I think, for example, subsidies depending on the benefits to the community or the target groups - cannot be neglected and require consultation with those concerned. You know that several activities are transferred to associations and that they, active in the field, devote a great deal of time to the youth, social, cultural and sports sectors. Some will find themselves there, since I encompass them all. I hope that these realities, which are very important on the ground, cannot be denied. In order to avoid these abuses, I will ask - I will tell you already and I will tell the chairman of the committee - for the possibility of having detailed hearings, several days if necessary, in the context of the forthcoming debates, so that a fine analysis of the impact of the reforms on the associations can be made. I say this in advance, so that we can make the arrangements. Our determination will be important. Minister, by tabling this text, you are triggering a comprehensive reform. The fear of the voluntary sector is real. His concern is great despite the advantages of your project. The fears I have expressed to you here are fears for the overallity of the project in the phases 2 and 3 that you will present to us. We will, of course, be attentive, in the associative world, as a result of these projects. I would also like to go over three points. First of all, with the majority, you have been attentive to the problem of silent bankruptcy. You were coming with this file. That's something you brought into the discussion. I also believe that it was not mature enough, if we should continue to do so. Indeed, I imagine that, through the door or through the window, you will bring him back to us. I would therefore like the work with the social partners to be timely. In the context of bankruptcy law, there is information for workers and a presence of workers in this context. I draw your attention to this need. A second important element is the announcement that you have made - we trust you and we will see that perhaps tomorrow - of the need to change registry fees and role registration fees for NSOs. The system of judicial reorganization or the assistance provided to the NSOs should not be reduced by a somewhat exorbitant cost. The third point is that there are several passages in the work of our committee which I have read out, in which you explain a number of articles containing topics which you feel have to be completed. I invite everyone to go back to this parliamentary work - the four committee meetings devoted to the subject - which will provide additional information on these elements. These are the points I wanted to draw your attention to. Be really attentive to this world of associations, which represents a great deal for the social bond, which builds our society, which is close to the poorest people and a reality of everyday life in our country.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-13-54-plenair-ip180x.u29	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, our group is very much in favour of the large legislative proposal before us today. This draft was discussed extensively in committee and hearings were also held several times. Indeed, our insolvency law could be streamlined a little more. Several insolvency proceedings had to be better coordinated. Discussions in the case-law had to be settled and the European insolvency settlement was awaiting implementation. This bill will do that. We are particularly pleased by the various innovations. I am thinking, for example, of the further roll-out of the Central Register Solvency, which started a few months ago. This register represents a major step forward in the computerisation of justice. The scope of insolvency law will be extended from companies and traders to all companies. In future, the professions, associations and even organisations without legal personality will also be subject to these procedures. All these different companies increasingly compete directly with each other and become increasingly interdependent. It is therefore logical that we should now harmonise everything with a single regulatory framework, a level playing field and a single type of court. Minister, you have rightly chosen to remove the provisions on silent bankruptcy from the draft law. In fact, the interim judgment of the European Court of Justice of 22 June last concerning the Dutch silent bankruptcy called into question the detailed rules. However, we hope that you, together with the experts concerned, will quickly continue to work on a worthy alternative. I would like to draw attention to the following two elements. Today, clerks and judges in commercial matters spend a great deal of time collecting information about companies in difficulty. Meanwhile, a flashing light database is being developed, which will contain a more automatic form of data collection. From the field of work we received the signal that the law in this area could also make a little more initiative on the part of the called-up person himself. That is why we tabled an amendment in committee during the discussion of this draft law which states that the call to appear before a chamber of companies in difficulty may include the request to the person called upon to enter certain information and information in the Central Solvency Register prior to the session. We are therefore pleased that this small additional measure, which will hopefully lead to a substantial reduction in the workload in the company courts, was included in the text before us for the vote. As far as the liability of directors and managers is concerned, the cases are now clearly grouped and expanded with, among other things, wrongful trading, which is the deliberate continuation of a company that will continue to work in debt. In addition, during the discussion in committee, we also tabled an amendment aimed at providing the company courts with an additional opportunity in future to impose a purely civil sanction for a maximum of three years on those who do not cooperate adequately with the curator in the resolution of his bankruptcy. After all, we have to observe that the current criminal sanction is only rarely applied. The Public Prosecutor or an unpaid creditor will now be able to bring their subpoenas in order to obtain a ruling from this civil sanction, but the judge will also be able to impose the penalty entirely of his own motion. It goes without saying that our group welcomes the measures designed to promote second chance entrepreneurship, particularly the system of remission, which should replace that of expiation. As a result, entrepreneurs will become more secure about their financial situation and also be able to start a new company more quickly, with the certainty that their new revenues will no longer be able to be used to meet the debts of the previous failures. So much for our group's brief general consideration of this bill. It goes without saying that we are embracing this initiative and that it has our full support.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-13-54-plenair-ip180x.u30	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you for the wonderful discussion we have devoted to these texts and for the constructive atmosphere in which this debate has taken place. I think it's all about timing. In this case, the Court of Justice had a very sensible timing by giving us an opinion on 22 June, while our second reading was on 28 June. Legal certainty required that, for the time being, in any event, we remove the "silent bankruptcy" component, as long as its continuous functioning could not be guaranteed. Secondly, as far as timing is concerned, the text, if you vote, will only enter into force in May of next year, allowing us to submit to you the second and third parts of the trilogy (or triptych) in question, namely, on the one hand, the part of the company code, with a new definition, and the commercial court which will become a court of business; and on the other hand, the part of company law and association law. The fear expressed by many of you that the ASBL would lose its typical character is not justified. You'll see it. I believe that the future definition of the association should focus more on the issue of profit distribution and not on its so-called non-commercial character. It's an outdated distinction. I believe that the distinction should be based on formal criteria rather than material ones. This will allow this sector to become more professional without calling into question the involvement of volunteers. I have received many organizations, ASBLs and volunteers, and I believe that, in general, after a thorough conversation, they have been appeased by the fears expressed among others by Mr. Laaouej and Mr. de Lamotte. As regards companies which do not publish their accounts and the extension of this measure to associations which do not deposit their accounts and to the risk of their dissolution, these associations will not be dissolved without having twice had the chance to regularise themselves. I don't think we should exaggerate the risk. This is a detail, but it has been stressed a lot. As far as consultation with the Communities is concerned, it is already under way. You must not, therefore, in relation to this, Mr de Lamotte, fear that the federal government will move forward without proper consultation. The same applies to the question of subsidies, which is a thorny question, but I am increasingly convinced that it will not be a problem in relation to this, because the transitional periods are of such a nature that we can always and for ten years again invoke article 1 of the 1921 law, which is so dear to you, Mr de Lamotte. I would like to express my thanks, once again, for the cooperation we have received in the committee in preparing this draft law.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-13-54-plenair-ip180x.u31	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? ) The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-13-54-plenair-ip180x.u32	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2407/12) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2407/12) The draft law contains 76 articles. The bill has 76 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-13-54-plenair-ip180x.u33	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-13-54-plenair-ip180x.u34	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteurs have all asked for the floor. The first rapporteur is Mr Klaps.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-13-54-plenair-ip180x.u35	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on 14 June 2016, Optima Bank filed for bankruptcy. That event led to the start of the Optima Committee of Inquiry, which has been trying for months to find out what facts and events led to that bankruptcy. We did this not only to point the finger at one or more people, but also to identify where legislation and control mechanisms have failed or are still failing. In addition, the committee has also been called upon to find solutions that will speed up the detection of a bank in difficulty and take appropriate measures to avoid bankruptcy. I am therefore pleased that today we can present a final report to the hemisphere in which all the groups agree and which was unanimously approved. To understand where Optima Bank went wrong, it is good to first look at its business model. What was the motivation of Optima Financial Planners (OFP) to acquire Ethias Bank? This motivation was essentially twofold, on the one hand strategic and, on the other hand, based on a legal need. The strategy was to expand the initial business model aimed at integrated asset management to include banking activities and thus sell banking products to its often highly capital-intensive customers. However, the main reason for the acquisition of Ethias Bank was the changing "read: tightening up" financial legislation in Belgium, which was often imposed by Europe after the crisis. Optima Group was very focused on real estate activities in its activities. The new legislation would not comply with its existing statute to offer the combination of financial planning and real estate activities. In addition, the factor Jeroen Piqueur played. Driven by the two motivations I have just mentioned, the main shareholder wanted to go towards his goal at all costs with a corresponding tunnel vision. At that time no one wanted to take over Ethias Bank, a union bank in bad papers. Piqueur, on the other hand, didn't see any bones in it. In itself, Optima's unique business model, combining financial planning, banking and insurance activities with real estate services, was not a problem for the bank's profitability. It was the lack of implementation of the business model that led to Optima's collapse. First of all, the economic situation in the acquisition of Ethias Bank was, to put it mildly, not ideal. The aftermath of the banking crisis, a stricter international banking regulation that forced the banks to strengthen their capital buffer in a sensitive manner and decreasing interest margins reduced profitability. Only a cowboy buys a bank at such a time that is much bigger than his own organization. Especially when it is known that OFP as a company, but also its managers and board members, had almost no experience with banking activities at the time of the acquisition, it is irresponsible to call that acquisition. Furthermore, the question arose as to whether Ethias was a suitable partner, since, unlike Optima, Ethias focused mainly on public administrations and small account holders. Its business model was therefore diametrically opposed. Moreover, Ethias was not profitable. For the financial year 2011, the loss was estimated at around 17 million euros. Moreover, the capital injection did not take into account any disappointing results in the first years following the acquisition. The capital injection was sufficient to finance the acquisition, but it was. It was simply insufficient to act as a buffer for setbacks in this economic situation. Finally, the expansion of banking activities within Optima Bank was a setback. The revenues from these activities amounted to less than 10% of turnover both in 2012 and 2013. The profit margins in the less strictly regulated real estate branch of the bank were much higher, reducing the interest in selling banking products. This proves once again that the sole purpose of the acquisition of Ethias Bank was to maintain the combination of financial planning and real estate activities. Piqueur never intended to work out a strong bank, resulting in bankruptcy. However, business management was also inadequate. The big problem here was once again the person of Piqueur and wider in view of the family. They managed a large proportion of the shares of Global Investments NV, which included the real estate branch. Piqueur was a main shareholder in the business and had little understanding or patience for the principles of good governance and checks and balances. It was always Piqueur himself or one of his confidants who made the important decisions. So it was both Piqueur and the board who shared the blame. If Piqueur could cheat, it was only possible because the board allowed it. Moreover, both Piqueur, the board of directors and the entire board of directors had largely insufficient banking experience, which prevented the management of the business. It was also suspicious and worrying that financial flows took place between Optima Bank, on the one hand, and Optima Group's companies and their shareholders, on the other. For example, Optima Group billed Optima Bank for millions of dollars, to transfer these amounts directly or indirectly to the shareholders. Some of these transactions were also found to be detrimental to Optima Bank itself, again proving that Optima Bank was only a means for Piqueur to continue its practices. Then why did Optima Bank get a bank license? Here too, the Committee of Inquiry was concerned. As has already been said, this is, of course, the crucial point in preventing new cases such as Optima Bank from occurring in the future. With a first takeover bid at Ethias Bank in 2011, the Optima group received a negative opinion from CBFA. Not much later, the FSMA and the National Bank became competent as control bodies under Twin Peaks II. The FSMA advised the National Bank that both Piqueur and Herman Verwilst, the former chairman of Optima Bank's board of directors, could not be assessed negatively under the fit-and-clean legislation applicable at that time. The words "at that time" are important in this respect. It is true that European and Belgian legislation is now in such a tight position that these gentlemen would no longer have received a positive evaluation after the introduction of the law of 25 April 2014. The National Bank further ruled that as a regulator in a dynamic financial market it should be able to accept a certain risk. Otherwise, the market will be completely closed for new start-ups and challengers. Newcomers in the market always carry a certain risk. In this respect, I do not think that we can point the finger at the control bodies. What the control bodies can and should use more closely in the future is the imposition and strict follow-up of licensing deadlines under conditions. Optima Bank had been granted its license under terms and conditions but repeatedly failed to comply with these terms and conditions in good time. If the conditions had been met, Optima Bank would have had a significantly higher chance of success. The National Bank regularly stepped up the pressure and control and made recommendations to withdraw Optima Bank, but that was the end of it. That is why the Committee of Inquiry proposes that in future the National Bank should be able to enforce and enforce its terms and conditions if necessary. In order to get a clear picture of the path to be followed by a supervised bank, the National Bank must impose a roadmap for this. The deadlines imposed should be followed more strictly, thus increasing the chances of survival for an ailing bank. In extreme cases, even a provisional director or manager should be able to be appointed. There is also a need to improve the sharing of information between the various public authorities in order to reduce the loopholes of the network even further in the future. As stated, the current rules are so tight that the chances of a new Optimas scandal are very low, ladies and gentlemen. Still, there's no harm in narrowing it down any further. The establishment of a communication cell for the National Bank, the FSMA, the BBI, the CFI and the judicial authorities is therefore, according to the Committee of Inquiry, an important element to play by suspects of irregularities, fraud or new elements that change fit-and-clean status. If that had existed, Piqueur would have received a negative fit-and-clean evaluation even with the then legislation in 2012, and Optima would not have received a bank licence. In addition, the Committee of Inquiry asks the National Bank of Belgium to examine whether, according to the Dutch model, prospective bank directors should comply with a more thorough screening of behaviour and psychological attitude in order to obtain a better fit-and-clean policy. In addition, it would be useful to determine the frequency by which the expertise and professional reliability of the boards should be checked. In this way, the fit-and-proper status can be guaranteed and maintained over time. To conclude, I would like to reiterate that both international, European and national rules are now intertwined to the extent that a copy of Optima could no longer happen. Optima was already a special case five years ago, with Piqueur slipping through the meshes of the net. Nevertheless, our committee of inquiry has mentioned a number of important areas of work which, if we succeed, will contribute to a more stable banking environment.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-13-54-plenair-ip180x.u36	Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to stress the constructive work of the committee, which has been carried out without division and with serenity, and to highlight the quality of the work done by the experts, the services and the chairman of the committee, which has led to this report and these recommendations being carried out effectively. But let us return to the main objectives of this commission of inquiry. First, with regard to the bank's behaviour, it was necessary to understand how the bank was created and, above all, how it evolved to bankruptcy. We have seen the outrageous behaviour of some managers, of deficient shareholders, failing to comply with their commitments, in short, of individuals whom some have described as "wolves", even "filous". But it is up to justice to rule on this aspect. At the end of this work, we can say that Optima's main problems were clearly its leaders, its shareholders and their ways of doing things. This brings me to the second aspect of our work, namely the involvement of regulators in this issue. This aspect was particularly interesting as it was the first opportunity since the 2008 crisis to see how the measures implemented by the banking reforms, including the Twin Peaks, worked. The bankruptcy of Optima is indeed the first under the new architecture. It was therefore essential to take stock of it. Our work, fuelled by numerous hearings, has made it possible to draw up this report and, above all, several recommendations. I will be able to highlight a few of them, such as the creation of a clear monitoring roadmap adapted to the situation of each bank, whatever its size, and taking up the conditions imposed on it for its proper functioning, a roadmap to increase transparency, governance and to give binding force to the requirements of the NBB with a pre-emptive character that has sometimes failed in the case of Optima. The second recommendation I would like to mention relates to the strengthening of the fit and proper procedure, with in particular a further, permanent, continuous screening of the members of the management of the banks so that the regulators are in possession of all the information necessary to render a relevant opinion on them. This is necessary to ensure the bank's quality of management and, above all, its sustainability. The third element is the introduction of an easier procedure for dismantling. It is clear that we do not want dismantling, but it is preferable to bankruptcy, and sometimes the difficulties are irremediable in a bank as well. Thus, a facilitated procedure would better safeguard public interests, including savers, and, above all, better empower shareholders and management. Fourth, the creation of a cell, a communication platform comprising BNB, FSMA, ISI, CTIF and the judicial authorities, which would allow rapid and effective exchange of information to deal with possible suspicions of fraud. Finally, I would also like to point out the recommendation that a bank oath should be introduced, as is the case in the Netherlands. Such a bank oath may be part of the banker's accountability process. Of course, this oath is not effective without adequate sanctions. We don't play casino with a bank. This must be part of the mindsets of banks and, above all, bankers. In conclusion, JJ insists, even if the Optima case is particular given its size and niche activity, that the work done and its recommendations can and should contribute to the improvement of the laws of good governance and the control of this essential sector. In addition, it is essential to prevent such personalities from having responsibilities in a bank in the future. Therefore, you will understand, we fully support the report of the Committee of Inquiry and the resulting resolution. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-13-54-plenair-ip180x.u37	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in addition to the statements made by my fellow rapporteurs who have already spoken, MM. Klaps and Daerden, and before I turn to the substance of the Optima dossier, I would like to welcome the smooth running of our work in this parliamentary committee of inquiry. Our work and our exchanges have been conducted in a calm, balanced and constructive manner, essential qualities given the importance of the issues related to the bank's bankruptcy. The committee worked for almost a year to finally reach a final report approved unanimously. I think it's important to take it up. Thank you to the experts and the services who accompanied us throughout our mission, to the various people we were able to audition, for their good cooperation, but also to all our colleagues and our President, for their rigorous and precise work. Our committee of inquiry has also scrupulously respected the objective assigned to it. The aim was to understand why and how Optima bank unfortunately went bankrupt. This exercise will have helped to determine how, in the future, we could act and thus prevent a similar scenario from happening again. In this regard, clear responses were provided, together with recommendations to strengthen the control power of the BNB. These reform lines are essential to ensure that the banking system is fully and effectively supervised and stable. I'll come back later. I'm coming back to the bottom now. It is important to point out that the case before us, namely Optima's banking activities, is in fact not representative of what is happening and is generally managed in the sector concerned. Since the 2008 crisis, the latter has learned from the drifts of the past in order to achieve today a more robust and, above all, healthier banking activity in the service of the real economy. In our work, we have therefore taken care to look at the facts and analyse them by taking the necessary step backwards, and we have had the lucidity not to draw hasty conclusions about the whole sector, not to generalize a situation and much less to give in to prejudice. In our view, although this case has in many respects proved to be detrimental to the banking sector as a whole, it remains confined to this particular case alone. Then, in a very concrete way, the question of the supervision carried out by the National Bank of Belgium (NBB) arose. Obviously, she could have been more vigilant. It is therefore necessary to strengthen its supervisory power and this is what we propose in our recommendations. The granting of the licence was certainly defensible, but the conditions imposed at the time were never fully complied with by Optima. The group did not develop banking activities; questionable decisions were taken by management, including the marketing of a savings account with a rate far higher than the market rate. Finally, suspicious intra-group transactions have also impoverished the bank. It was therefore in 2016 that the BNB reacted, whereas its recommendations had unfortunately not been fully followed up by the bank's shareholders. On the basis of these findings, the members of the Commission have therefore worked to make recommendations strengthening the control power of the BNB over banks. These include the imposition by the Bank of a roadmap to the banks under its control, which will specify the regulations to be observed, will record the bank's main weaknesses in the application of the regulations and within which a timetable will be agreed to address each breach. With regard to recommendations, I would like to point out the amendment of the banking law provided for in order to give binding effect to the BNB's injunctions; the improvement of the communication between the BNB and the controlled banks and the possibility of appointing an interim administrator or manager as a remedy. I would like to mention three more: the possibility for the BNB to require a property guarantee and a declaration on the honour of the principals and principal shareholders when it considers it appropriate; the faster launch, within the framework of each bank's resolution plans, of a dismantling procedure and the earlier supervision to counter the strategies of impoverishment of the structure in difficulty and thus avoid the involvement of public funds; and finally, the formalisation by the BNB of the reporting rules. That said, even if the finding was made that the NBB would probably have been even better able to carry out these controls and that there was certainly a lack of communication between its services and those of the ISI, it must be made clear that the responsibility for the bankruptcy of Optima Bank does not lie with the NBB, which was therefore right to withdraw the licence in June 2016. The managers are clearly identified: they are the shareholder and management of Optima Bank. In conclusion, I hope that this unfortunate affair can serve as a lesson, that the recommendations on banking supervision are implemented quickly and that the sector operators can continue to develop in a safe, healthy, stable and, obviously, serviceable environment for the real economy.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-13-54-plenair-ip180x.u38	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to confirm that we have met a great deal in committee and have met intensively. The meetings were not always serene; often there were harsh words. But at the end of the day we came to a report with conclusions, which was adopted unanimously. The report presented by Mr Klaps was quite complete. I would like to highlight a number of points which are important to us. In committee we have spent a great deal of time on the problem of what we call the special mechanisms and money laundering. We have put questions to the court; we have heard the National Bank about this; we have even heard the BBI twice about it. The first proposal for a report contained nothing about this. But it was important for us that a whole chapter should be devoted to this, and the committee accepted it. After all, we found that neither the National Bank nor the FSMA contacted the BBI in connection with the investigation of Optima and its customers. According to the National Bank, as the representative of it told us in committee, there is no reporting obligation for the BBI in the current state of law for ongoing investigations. According to the National Bank, there is also no legal basis for the National Bank to seek information from the BBI about any ongoing investigations. In other words, the BBI was investigating Optima, the National Bank was investigating Optima, the FSMA was investigating Optima, but they didn't put all that data together. The message was that they were not allowed and could not. That is why we have a number of recommendations in this regard. The Committee also noted that the supervisors did not launch an investigation into the special mechanisms at Optima, despite the alarming report of the National Bank in December 2013 on the lack of any anti-money laundering policy and formalised customer acceptance policy. Also the BBI investigation, which was reported in the press, with the appeal of the BBI to Optima's twelve thousand customers to regularize, should have triggered the orange flashing lights in order to launch a specific investigation into possible special mechanisms. That didn't happen. This is why our committee recommends to us that, in future, supervisors should be given a more active role in detecting the special mechanisms set up by institutions under their prudential supervision with the aim of promoting tax fraud by third parties. In addition, the excessively restrictive conditions of application of the current reporting obligation on special mechanisms, which I have just mentioned, need to be adapted. You will find in the report many recommendations which are extremely important to us. The next point I would like to raise is the problem of consultancy agreements. You just heard the report. The National Bank rightly considered the circumvention of Optima's prohibition of consultancy agreements as a problem and concluded that there was no real consideration for the payments. For the period 2013-2015, according to the National Bank's inspection report, 2.3 million euros of consultancy fees went from Optima Bank to Optima Group, payments against which the National Bank considered no consideration. It is striking that the Optima Group's only income stemmed from the non-available services, which were invoiced to Optima Bank, according to the National Bank. That was 100 % of turnover, of which 73 % went directly or indirectly to Jeroen Piqueur. The other revenues of the Optima Group were used to pay the other directors and the general operating costs. In this context, the Committee noted that the directors of the Optima Group were paid at 100% on income which the National Bank did not consider to be service-free. The question arises as to what is the responsibility of all directors of the Optima Group and not only of Jeroen Piqueur. As a committee, of course, we are not aware of the progress of the legal investigation, but there is a recommendation from our committee that the judicial investigation should not only be limited to Jeroen Piqueur, but that it should be extended to all directors of the Optima Group, in so far as Justice has not already done so. Another point I would like to mention briefly concerns the question of whether the bankruptcy was avoidable. We discussed this in committee, but we did not get out completely. According to the National Bank, there has been a breach of trust at a certain point in time and this has led to the cessation of banking activities. This sudden cessation is remarkable, especially since the banking activities were successfully phased out during the previous two years. Over a year and a half, the deposits were reduced from EUR 665 million to EUR 87 million and the loan portfolio from EUR 213 million to EUR 24 million. In other words, only a small part of the journey had to be made. The question remains whether it was really impossible for the supervisor to achieve a few objectives together: firstly, the launch of a judicial investigation into irregularities which the National Bank considers to be criminal; secondly, the avoidance of money from the bank; and thirdly, the orderly resolution of banking activities, so that there would ultimately be no losses for deposit holders, for the employees of the bank and for society. I'm stuck with that question. I did not really receive an answer to that question and the opposite was not answered clearly either. In any case, today it is the fact that the bank is bankrupt and that there is a large deficit, which is, of course, also passed on to the government. My final comment concerns us all and has less to do with the activities and investigations of the Committee of Inquiry. I think we should consider it as Members of Parliament, being part of a committee of inquiry, whether the way we work in a committee of inquiry is still an efficient way of working. In the Committee of Inquiry, we were confronted with the demand or condition of the National Bank and the FSMA to see the documents only eyes only. This means that we could not look at a mass of documents at our office here in Parliament, nor at home behind the computer, nor even in the committee of inquiry, but that we had to move to the offices of the National Bank and the FSMA. Well, that is an unworkable situation. This unworkable situation has come about because we no longer trust ourselves. It's because we're afraid one of us would leak. When it comes to information that is highly confidential, it goes without saying that we cannot afford to leak. In my view, the Optima Committee has been an example of a committee with little or no leaks. That makes it all the worse that we just had to work in such a difficult way in the Optima Committee. However, I have seen this week in the Panama Commission that there is a leak there, and I regret that, of course. In other words, we Members of this House must consider our own work. If we want to show confidence, including in the conclusions and in the recommendations we make, then we must at least have confidence in ourselves and ensure that we actually respect the duty we take to respect the confidentiality of hearings and documents. If every time there are one or more people who betray that trust, we make our own work particularly difficult. Hence a call: let us do this in a much better way in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-13-54-plenair-ip180x.u39	Mr Vanvelthoven, Mr Degroote wishes to interrupt you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-13-54-plenair-ip180x.u40	I have listened carefully and I can endorse your analysis, that is not the problem. I hear you say that certain cases were unworkable, including that we received certain documents from the National Bank only on the condition of eyes only. Do you have the impression that the National Bank has been spared something throughout the operation and that the responsibility was greater than the report shows?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-13-54-plenair-ip180x.u41	Since we were very difficult to work, that question is very difficult to answer. We were able to look into documents and have done so in view of the questioning of the governor and at some point also the late governor of the National Bank. At a time when the questioning must be carried out without having the documents, one receives answers whose truth or correctness is not immediately verifiable. That's the problem. I do not wish to claim that there has been a conscious strategy to keep certain things hidden in great hope. I don't think so, but this is actually no way to work.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-13-54-plenair-ip180x.u42	Mr President, I do not want to be here. It is now the third time that I have had the doubtful pleasure of sitting in a special committee or committee of inquiry on the banking crisis and the aftermath of Dexia and working on it for months. Some people think that's funny, but I can assure you that the people think that's more than sad and unjust. The Optimas scandal, for those who were already here in 2008, and for those who joined it afterwards, is both the result and the echo of the Dexia dossier, which has put our country in trouble for many years and put it on its foundations. Together with ARCO and the Municipal Holding, Ethias was one of the shareholders, one of the satellites around Dexia Grand Bank. The three major shareholders were dragged deeper together with that bank. In its aftermath, this hemisphere has maintained Ethias with crisis laws. One and a half billion euros of state aid has cost us all, just for Ethias. In return, the European Commission demanded that a number of sections of those satellites were disposed of and sold, including the banking department. On 8 November 2011, in the wake of the international banking crisis and the context of Dexia's unintended nationalisation, where we are all still guaranteeing the residual bank and where we should once and for all pause in the debates on the future of Belfius, the National Bank gave the green light to a takeover of the distressed Ethias by the financial service provider Optima Financial Planners, a very small player compared to the bank that had to be sold. It has been the beginning of an episode of five years of broken promises, outright lies and delay, in which the bank was used as a milk cow by the main shareholder, Mr Piqueur, his close family and friends, from the very beginning of the takeover, with as a thread the tried and tested ingredients of the international banking crisis in us the Dexia story, namely unbridled greed and conflict of interests. The acquisition of the bank was very convenient for the real estate leg, for strategic and legal reasons. I won't display the whole chronology, you'll find it in the report, but the advent of the banking license was in any case very good news for the real estate operator. It allowed further expansion of services to customers while continuing to offer the combination of financial planning and real estate under a banking statute, as the rules had changed. I couldn't do it if I didn't. For the National Bank, the candidate buyer came as called, in the light of European requirements. It was bend or crack for our supervisor. It has led me to the conclusion that the ticking time bomb, which was Ethias, has received the benefit of the doubt from our supervisor. Congratulations? I don't think so. It would have had to, otherwise it would have been the downfall of a bank at the time, in a context in which we could not afford such a thing. We knew very quickly in the committee that that bank was not actually viable. The starting point was insufficient. We knew that. After inspection of the documents, it was quite clear that there were one serious deficiencies from day one. There were serious doubts about the bank's viability. There was insufficient banking experience in the acquisition of something larger than the buyer. However, the banking experience was essential, given the highly regulated nature of the sector. There was only a small customer base and the capital injection was insufficient, but it had to be. There were also doubts from the outset about the expertise and professional reliability of one and the other. Mr Klaps has just referred to the twice negative definition of the suitability of the people. And if we have no proof that men are not fit, then we shall go on with them, assuming that they are fit. In that context, after the banking crisis, that was in fact unimaginable at the time, especially since a lot of bankers also involved bankers in this file at the time had actually gotten an inadequate in the banking crisis. I am not going to make ourselves vulnerable at the very last minute in a file that is very closely related to criminal proceedings. So I won't mention any names. However, anyone who has read a number of press articles, which did not come from the committee, will know who it is. By the way, I have left a nice nickname to this committee; to the Dexia Committee was the "miss Dexia' and now it is "miss fit-and-proper', for which I am grateful. Anyway, it's obvious that this has been filled out very scaryly throughout the bank's history. The only two persons with banking experience were both from banks that had failed during the banking crisis. That is remarkable, to say the least. There has been a very remarkable ruling that should make the acquisition possible. It was therefore clear that there was a great deal of concern for the supervisor to enable the acquisition. I would like to stress that this is perhaps understandable from a social point of view. Every day that bank lasted longer was a day's delay, a day in which they could be straightened out. However, this was incomprehensible from a strictly supervisory point of view. From a strictly supervisory point of view, the bank should never have been licensed. I would like to stress that no new bank would ever get a bank licence and be allowed to start in our country under the same conditions, given the debates on NewB. The problem child Optima was strongly associated with the position of the main shareholder who, as described, was a cowboy in real estate and used the bank for that purpose. In what was euphemistically called a hands-on approach by the experts, it appears that the role of the Management Committee and the Management Board was always subordinate to the wishes of the main shareholder, who had experience in the much less regulated environment of the real estate sector. In 2013 both risk management and compliance will be given, I would like to point out once again the big parallels with Dexia's dossier, which is the lowest possible score of the supervisor. We have therefore recommended that the compliance, risk and audit function be significantly strengthened. We have indicated that internal whistleblowers really need financial compensation, if they are going to make irregularities to the supervisor, if a bank's internal control mechanisms fail, so that the supervisor can regain control of the bank. In this way, we will never experience similar facts at either a large bank or a smaller bank such as Optima. The dubious transactions, which were harsh and impactful, are always reflected in the whole of the file. In fact, the National Bank has always set out the right priorities, but they were not followed. The couch squarely wiped her feet there. However, it has not been an option for the regulator to intervene for a long time. I do not agree with fellow Members that the National Bank has no instruments for this. The National Bank can also replace directors with the legislation in force, but it has waited a long time to intervene. This is bizarre, given the proactivity shown by the supervisors at the time of the acquisition and approval of the ruling case and the acquisition. The same proactive attitude has been omitted for a long time afterwards. Would it have changed the course of the bank? I don't think so. The situation between the real estate leg and the bank, between the main shareholder and the other players, was so clearly distorted that the bank was most likely to have a glass ball, and we can't see what the other scenarios would have resulted in. It could have made a difference if the supervisor had shown his teeth more quickly, teeth that we gave them here in the hemisphere after the Dexia scandal, and to which we have also worked very hard in those other committees. I don't even blame them for that difference in proactivity. It was the first time in the Twin Peak model that the national supervisor had to succeed a non-systemic bank in the full aftermath of that other crisis, while Dexia's residual bank still had to be managed and all other cases. However, there is still social damage today, there is still a residual amount to be recovered by the Guarantee Fund and several municipal authorities after Dexia have lost a second time to several millions. It is our damn duty to think about a way to avoid such events in the future, to ensure that one is proactive and one does not open one's umbrella and fills its role in a narrowly negative way. As far as we are concerned, the question of whether prudential supervisors have enough instruments at their disposal for their mission has been answered. We have done this homework largely on the basis of previous committees, but we have chosen to give Optima time to try to adjust it and we have tried to improve common sense among those who did not really want to do so. We have also identified a lack of communication between the various supervisors. That was the case between the National Bank and the FSMA. There were also the actions of the BBI and the questions the real estate sector raised. As a committee, we recommended that there should be better communication between the various government cells, by setting up a communication cell, at least between the National Bank, the FSMA, the CFI, the BBI and the public prosecutor, so that any convictions can also be communicated to the National Bank. On this basis, it can better assess the suitability of drivers. Then it no longer has to constantly hunt for information itself and it is passed on collegially. The mix-up of interests took on a very large scale. It was very clear that there had been impoverished operations through the Spanish daughter and that there had been many warnings, but that they were simply ignored. There were strong payments for consultancy assignments that still had to be carried out. A few thousand euros were paid in advance for consultancy missions that had not yet been carried out, which would have to be carried out in the future. This was done with such size that the bank was rapidly impoverished, using the group structure. Where else did we see that? Exactly, in the Dexia Group file. And course the route the National Bank has also made a number of important decisions throughout this dossier. For example, a circular round of fit-and-clean policy was sent out in 2013. We remember that from that legislature. The question is why, with that circular in mind, no zero-setting procedure took place at the time with the directors of the different banks, especially those saved in our country. My appeal is to do so, after that circular at least now the systemic institutions and the institutions under special supervision should really screen for their fit-and-clean policies. Green is very happy to thank my fellow Members for the first time we have been able to include the definition of the banker's oath in our report in our committee. One of the recommendations of this committee is the establishment of a banker's oath. Meanwhile, the banker's oath in the Netherlands has already led to convictions of bankers who have crossed the line. At this very moment, thirteen bankers have either temporarily or completely suspended since the introduction of that oath, because their behaviour is not in line with socially responsible behaviour. It is a good thing that a document is being adopted here today which is the seed for that banker's oath. Green has a proposal ready. After this committee we hope to have been supported not only for our amendment but also for the proposal that the banker's oath is toothing, as in the Netherlands. I look forward to it. This was one of the elements proposed by the high-level group under the leadership of Mr Noels, among others, but not so far put into practice. Once again, I would like to express my thanks for accepting that amendment. In order not to get anomalies, we have described it in the same way as in the Panama Commission. In the meantime, our group has worked it out and I look forward to the effective vote on that proposal. I had also announced in committee that I would have liked to have had a number of points in the report, but unfortunately they were not accepted by my fellow Members. The most important thing is the creation of a powerful fit-and-clean database. That's not a proposal from the green party. That is a proposal that comes from the case of the four experts of the Dexia Committee. It is a proposal that was censored at the time; it was not taken into account by the then majority and it was removed from the report. It was thirteen pages of recommendations, well-founded, why it would be useful to introduce such a database into the operation of our banking supervision. We have retabled the recommendations as an amendment because we believe that they still make sense. I have just referred to the two directors who failed during the banking crisis. Well, had the database at the time been in place as requested by the four experts of the Dexia Committee, the supervisors would probably have concluded that other banking experience had to be added. I would like to express my disappointment at the fact that this amendment has not been accepted and I would like to make it quite clear that it is not off the table for us. We will continue to submit this proposal because we believe it is an important element to avoid such calamities in the future. We do not want to target people, but we want to increase the vigilance of the supervisor. It comes straight out of the draft recommendation of the experts in the committee and we will stick to it because we think it is more than wood. The same applies to the cumulative ban on former politicians, who must be out of politics for five years before they can take office as directors. By the way, this was recently raised by Baron Buysse on the renewal of the third Code Buysse. He made an explicit reference to the Optima case. These are the two amendments which I believe could have made our recommendations even stronger. But don't get me wrong. Today, I am putting my finger on the issues to which our party attaches great importance. However, I believe that this committee proves how we can work well across party boundaries. Despite its limitations, which must lead to introspection of how a parliament deals with secret documents, which have not made it easy for us to do so, certainly not in the testimonies behind closed doors, this committee has managed to approve many things together, and certainly in the final stage of this report. Did we go as far as we wanted? No, but there's no such thing as an ideal world. Sometimes perfection gets in the way of good. We will support this good report today, bearing in mind that there are things that we want to work on. One of them has already been worked out in concrete terms, the other one we will continue to offer in the hope that one day we will be able to draw that conclusion.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-13-54-plenair-ip180x.u43	Mrs. Almaci, I have a question. If I see it wrong, you tell me, but if I listen carefully to your speech, you seem to me a little sharper in your decision vis-à-vis the supervisor than what I read in the report and this on two points. According to you, the supervisor simply couldn't have given the license and he should have acted faster in the early years, or had more possibilities than he used. Is it true if I interpret it that way?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-13-54-plenair-ip180x.u44	Thank you for the question, Mr President, because it allows me to clarify this. From a social point of view, the choice is absolutely understandable. At that time letting the bank go over, we had a much higher invoice. From a social point of view, it is therefore understandable that the National Bank has approved this acquisition. However, if we look at the basic conditions for taking over a bank, we actually did not meet them. Am I glad they allowed this takeover after all? Happy is not the word, but I think in those circumstances, with one candidate buyer in a context where the National Bank forced us to sell that bank, there was actually no other choice. However, I note that there has been a great proactivity in regulating that takeover, which I would have liked to see in the further processing of that file, especially when it became clear that the main shareholder has emerged very quickly as a wolf. So let me put it this way, as I did at the end of the report: the main shareholder quickly became a wolf and I would have liked our supervisor to have been a hunter quickly. He has the means to do that, and today we are giving more. That's why I want to end up where I started. I am tired of standing here and talking about the aftermath of the Dexia dossier, in which our people, our economy and our banking sector have suffered so much. With the experience of the banking crisis and the management of large banks in difficulty, and with these experiences in the Twin Peak model of another non-systematic bank, enough information and experience is currently available at both our supervisors to deal with those files more proactively. Everyone has to learn and afterwards it's easy to talk. In my analysis, I'm more accommodating than my speech might suggest. In the context of the banking crisis, with little choice in terms of purchasers, with a backpack full of interest rate swaps we may have forgotten, that bank was not a coveted bride... was the acquisition of Ethias far from a walk in the park. We have already faced enough high waves to stop making these kinds of mistakes, to look at hybrid models more suspiciously than we have done so far, to set off the necessary alarm bells in a real estate leg used by a bank as a vehicle, as we have seen before in the other files. I'd like to end with that. We didn't analyze the real estate leg. There are far too many legal procedures. That is a minefield in which we as a party, but also as a committee, did not want to make any chunks and we want to allow the investigation to proceed quietly. It is difficult to see the situation because of the many judicial investigations, but it is clear that there were serious problems at the bank from the beginning and that the wolf has bitten around very hard.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-13-54-plenair-ip180x.u45	Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, it was in November 2011 that the National Bank granted Optima the banking license that CBFA at the time or FSMA today initially refused. The documents that filtered from the National Bank showed quite quickly that from the first days and for five years, Optima deliberately lied to the National Bank. Optima has constantly denied her promises. Optima distributed dividends when this was not authorized by the National Bank. It was therefore necessary to consider Optima's compliance with the legal and regulatory conditions applicable to banks, the reasons behind the bank's bankruptcy and the role of Mr Piqueur, the founder and largest shareholder of Optima. The Commission was set up with the aim of examining whether the financial supervisory authorities and the Special Inspectorate of Taxes (SII) had played their full role in their task of supervising Optima Bank with the task also to see to what extent political influence had been exercised and by whom. Today, I believe that it can be said that the Committee of Inquiry has been useful in making all the transparency on the malfunctions that have created the Optima dossier, in making recommendations on banking supervision and tax supervision of financial institutions and in ensuring that such a situation does not happen again in the future. Ladies and gentlemen, if I were to sum up in a few words the conclusions of this 100-page report, I would say that the granting of the licence by the National Bank could be justified, that unfortunately the conditions imposed were not complied with by Optima. Very quickly, things got caught up and derailed, and in particular, the legal separation between the entities which was very blurred and, to say the least, problematic. Mr Piqueur accused the National Bank of being responsible for the bankruptcy, but in fact it was clearly the opposite. Responsibility rests with the main shareholder and management. There is a failure in the head of management, an accumulation of mistakes. Of course, the National Bank could have been more attentive. In retrospect, we can tell each other. There is also a clear lack of communication between the National Bank, FSMA, ISI and the judicial authorities. Undoubtedly, there should have been more consultation. Finally, we cannot help thinking about the creditors who lost money in this case. There's a lot of them. From their point of view, the case is far from closed. Despite the regret or disappointment expressed by Mrs Almaci in particular, the report before you today is of good quality. I would like to congratulate all colleagues and our President, Mr. Van Rompuy, because I believe that the work has been carried out in good conditions. We were able to avoid three pitfalls, and the credit comes to you in part, Mr. Van Rompuy. The first is telescoping with court proceedings. Penalties had been committed and it was now up to the judiciary to clarify them. We could not interfere with the judicial process and, thanks in particular to the experts who accompanied us, we avoided this pitfall. The second was that of a certain spectacle policy. We didn't try to attract the cameras. On the contrary, most of the time we worked in camera. It may be ungrateful from a media point of view, but it is a guarantee of seriousness. The third is that we have avoided partisan divisions, especially between the majority and opposition. I say this, bearing in mind other committees, particularly the Panama Papers, where I really hope that we can also go beyond these divisions, even if I am not completely reassured today. Among the conclusions or recommendations of the report, I would like, as other colleagues have done, to highlight some of them. The first relates to the granting of a bank licence: it is clear that in the future it must be conditional on a minimum level of experience. This was not the case for Optima, and it must be the case in the future. The second is the need to strengthen internal control mechanisms, including the compliance function. At the time of the takeover, Optima had no experience with banking activities or the operation of a regulated banking institution. There was no tradition of risk management, audit, compliance. At the management and board level, few managers had experience in the banking sector. Worse, compliance, regulation were seen within the group as unnecessary costs not generating any added value. Two of the Compliance officers even declared in committee that they were not informed of the key decisions taken at Optima Bank, which is obviously contrary to the obligation of any organisation to make all relevant documents available to Compliance officers. Third recommendation or important question: who was responsible was identified, but even today there is certainly a question as to whether the supervisory authority could not have performed its role better. The September 2011 special report and the National Bank's December 20, 2013 inspection report clearly identify organizational deficiencies. These reports point to shortcomings in compliance, audit, transparency, risk management, the operation of the sales network, compliance with anti-money laundering legislation. As of the end of 2013, the National Bank has therefore found the information I have just mentioned. It had indications that the situation was not optimal. This could or should have led to increased vigilance on his part. Fourth element. It is clearly necessary to give more binding force to the orders of the supervisory authority in order for managers to be obliged to comply with them. Fifthly, the Fit and Proper procedure needs to be strengthened, more regular and not just ad hoc at the beginning of the process of expertise and good repute. The frequency at which checks of expertise and good repute should be carried out, in particular with the judicial authorities, should also be usefully defined. The list of wrongdoing contained in section 20 of the Banking Act could certainly be expanded. Sixthly, I fully agree with the idea of a bank oath that would strengthen the individual responsibility of bankers. There is no doubt that it should even be subject to sanctions. Finally, I would like to stress the need to consider the creation of a communication unit, which would improve the exchange of information between the various competent authorities, since it has been clear that exchanges between them have been rare when each has a piece of the puzzle. The creation of such a unit, bringing together the National Bank, the ISI, the FSMA, the CTIF and the judicial authorities, would no doubt enable in the future precise information to be transmitted in case of serious suspicion of irregularities or fraud. Unfortunately, this was not the case in the Optima file. Mr Vanvelthoven pointed out the sometimes difficult working conditions of the committee. However, despite this, I think I can say that we have done a modest – but seriously – useful work. That is why the cdH Group will support the report before you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-13-54-plenair-ip180x.u46	Mr. President,... Thanks for the welcome... I was an alternate member of this committee, in which Mrs Almaci - who has already spoken - has done a very good job, as have colleagues and the services, which I welcome - while regretting the absence of the Minister of Finance. Indeed, it is he who is competent for banking supervision. Many elements must be retained from this file.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-13-54-plenair-ip180x.u47	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-13-54-plenair-ip180x.u48	Mr Verherstraeten, yes, as I was going to explain, at that time I was very busy with another exciting committee: the Kazakhgate Committee. However, I have followed closely the work, on which I will return quickly. This Optima file, Mr Verherstraeten, is a Dexia mini-case. Fortunately, the financial consequences are different, but unfortunately the ressources are the same: the lure of the gain of some, unacceptable banking practices, conflicts of interest in the form of self-service on the part of the bank's management and, finally, the insufficiency or inefficiency of the supervisory authorities. At the end of the Dexia special committee, my colleague Meyrem Almaci and I said that both the awareness and the banking reforms undertaken were insufficient in terms of risk management and the potential consequences for society. The Optima file provides proof of this, at the cost of an unfriendly wink, since it was the Dexia crisis that led to the creation of Optima Bank by the resumption of the activities of Ethias Bank, carried over by the Dexia affair. Should Optima be allowed to resume the activities of Ethias Bank? Were the skills needed to manage a bank gathered within this new entity? Was the banking model viable? Did the bank's managers deserve the fit and proper qualification that was ultimately granted to them by the supervisory authorities? Have the FSMA and the National Bank acted sufficiently proactively with respect to the bank? Should they not have acted more quickly and firmly with regard to the Commission and its managers? All these questions, the committee of inquiry asked itself before reaching - because this is the objective of a committee of inquiry - proposals for reform so that this does not happen again. Should Optima be allowed to become a bank? I have doubts. Circumstances could justify this. Something had to be done for Ethias Bank. But a posteriori, this recognition is amazing compared to the timidness of the National Bank compared to other innovative banking projects - I am thinking of NewB. Was the model viable? Were the skills gathered? There too, there may be doubts. A former Fortis leader, co-responsible for the fall of Fortis, a businessman certainly well introduced in different circles, but without banking experience, it is an unbalanced model. When you see things today, you think this story couldn't be a success story. Did we react quickly enough? No, obviously, in the face of misappropriation, mismanagement, also in the face of the findings of the Special Inspectorate of Taxes, we should have acted faster, prevented the continuation of the bank's activities and prevented its refinancing, which increased the losses of certain players. Of course, the damage is relatively limited - in any case more limited than in the Dexia case - but it is substantial for the local authorities, for the associations, for the bank's customers who had more than 100 000 euros in account (beyond 100 000 euros, there is no state guarantee), but also for the community, since the guarantee fund financed by the banks had to intervene. This is obviously damaging to each of the persons and entities concerned. Today, we must continue and intensify banking reforms, make the next step, which has not been achieved as a result of the previous problems (Dexia, Fortis). The environmentalists, through Meyrem Almaci, put on the table, as part of the committee's work, proposals for reform complementary to those proposed by our experts. Some have been accepted and we welcome it. That is what will justify our positive vote earlier on this report, although we still regret a certain amount of chill, considering that it does not go far enough. It is a good idea to imagine that tomorrow the National Bank will be able to replace, in the face of shortcomings, those responsible for the internal audit of a bank in the event of difficulties. It's kind of having special powers. It is regrettable that there is no database, no exchange of data to characterize bank managers and to grant them the status of fit and proper necessary for the management of a bank. It is positive, in addition to all the layers of external control, to imagine a bank oath for all bank employees but, beyond external control, to be effective, it must obviously be accompanied by a code of ethics, supervisory bodies and sanctions mechanisms. Otherwise, it'll scream in the desert. It is also positive to have recalled the value of setting up a F committee for the supervision and coordination of services in charge of the fight against fraud, although this was already one of the recommendations of the 2009 commission of inquiry on major tax fraud. Why not go further and faster in the exchange of information and also in the prohibition of the cumulation of political mandates and banking management functions? How many more disasters will it take before further action is taken? Our vigilance is necessary. More than ever, it is necessary to promote greater banking diversity than it is today in order to distribute risks. Belfius, which is now a 100% public bank, must be a model in the banking sector. We must also be able to punish those who have been wronged, if necessary, and work by example. This was not done in the Optima folder. I will conclude my speech as I began, saying that I regret the absence of the Minister of Finance. It is up to us to continue to question him, to put pressure on the National Bank, on the FSMA to avoid new disasters that would put public finances at risk even more than today. Optima shows us that the greed that created the problems of Dexia and Fortis is still present. Without binding rules, without the ability to act quickly, we risk going through new crises tomorrow, which we obviously do not want as ecologists.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-13-54-plenair-ip180x.u49	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I shall begin with a positive remark. This report describes very well the scandalous practices of Piqueur in Optima. The rapporteurs gave a good account of this aspect. I would now like to make a few less positive remarks. First of all, I note the complacency of the members of the committee, the self-satisfaction on the quality of the work, on the unanimity which has essentially prevailed in this committee. I also note that Mr Calomne, who is no longer present in this House, denies the evidence when he says that Optima is not representative of the banking sector, that it is the lost sheep of the sector. I recall that the banking sector is involved in large-scale tax fraud (QFIE, KB Lux, etc.).). Banks have always been a little at the forefront of tax evasion. It can also be said that the main banking establishments in Belgium - as we saw in the Panama Papers Committee - have subsidiaries in Luxembourg, Switzerland or elsewhere that organise tax fraud on a large scale. We still remember the banking crisis of 2008 with the main institutions of the country (Fortis, Dexia, KBC) which confused bank and casino and which cost billions of euros to public finances, with supervisory authorities whose supervision was totally next to the plate (National Bank or Banking Commission). Here we find exactly the same flaws in this file. However, I would like to point out that the PTB has been excluded from this committee. All parties that did not have a group were excluded. On the basis of what argument? I would like to remind you of the arguments that led to our exclusion from this committee. There's no argument! Opposition parties supported us but the arguments of the right, of the right-wing majority to exclude us were invalid not because they were bad. They sucked because there wasn't! Perhaps the Chairman of the Finance Committee remembers that. He desperately asked members of the majority to give arguments. These arguments have never happened.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-13-54-plenair-ip180x.u50	We're waiting for your arguments, too!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-13-54-plenair-ip180x.u51	Mr. Thiéry, let Mr. Van Hees! [[Brouhahaha]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-13-54-plenair-ip180x.u52	I'm gonna go ahead.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-13-54-plenair-ip180x.u53	Mr. Van Hees, there's an interruption of Mrs. Kitir.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-13-54-plenair-ip180x.u54	Mr President, it may be a little late, but I think there are limits. There must be respect for the presentation of a Member of Parliament. What happens now, I'll find out about it.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-13-54-plenair-ip180x.u55	There doesn't seem to be a problem right now. Mr Van Hees, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-13-54-plenair-ip180x.u56	Mr. President, thank you. I said that the exclusion of the PTB and other small groups from this committee is a decision all the more deplorable since politicians from several parties were mentioned in the Optima bank file. It was therefore essential that all the parties in this Parliament should be able to participate in this committee and, above all, those that are not members of the traditional parties. By excluding them, a door was opened to traditional party arrangements. We called for full transparency in this matter on the overlap and conflicts of interest between the political and financial worlds. We have also asked that this committee of inquiry look at the too close links between politicians, bankers and the big owners of real estate. In our view, the committee had to put an end to the policy of turning doors and finally work to establish tight separations between politics and business. What does it show? In terms of transparency, the Commission has organised 17 hearings, including 7 public auditions and 11 closed hearings. The reports of its meetings in camera were not included in the general report. Long live transparency! It is also clear that the Commission has not put an end to the policy of rotating doors and has not installed the necessary tight separations between politics and business. This is not addressed in the recommendations. There is no proposal to prohibit the cumulation of political mandates with the boards of directors of banks and multinational corporations and other essential lessons that should have been drawn from this Optima case. Has the Commission considered the too close links between politicians, bankers and the big owners of real estate? No! In the final report, there is no longer any question of overlap and these links. The words Land Invest group do not return once in the report. Just like the name of Geert Versnick, this MP for Open Vld who recently resigned and who was told earlier this year that he had received 130,000 euros of consulting fees from Optima. The name of Luc Van den Bossche, the former minister sp.a who was president of Optima Global Estate, the real estate branch of the Optima Group, and chairman of the board of directors of the bank, is mentioned only once, by the way, in this report. It seems that there is a general consensus to reject all guilt on a single man, Jeroen Piqueur, whose obvious malfeasances I have pointed out, which have indeed been included in the report. But this man serves as a lightning rod for all the others, and especially the politicians. All of this happens in an inter-self, whose parties such as the PTB are excluded. I think this report is not satisfactory at all. This rapin culture, which is obviously quite common among bankers, is not called into question. I have heard many colleagues who believe that the bankers' oath was a very good idea. In the Panama Papers Commission, in particular, we saw many bankers who assured that things had changed, that the time when bankers were doubtful was over. Clearly, things are quite different. I also need to talk to you about the tax fraud investigation. In October 2013, following the ISI administrator's report, Mr. Filipsen was informed that an electronic copy of the documents that had been seized by the ISI had been kept on the FPS Finance server. In the light of the judgement of the Ghent Court of First Instance and the settlement reached, the destruction of the copy was ordered. Essential elements concerning Piqueur's malfeasance were on this hard drive and were destroyed. Strangely, in the recommendations, nothing mentions these kinds of problems. We say all possible evil of Piqueur, but when this information is on a hard drive of the SPF and we have to destroy it, we comply. And, in the recommendations, it is not considered that this kind of thing should be avoided later.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-13-54-plenair-ip180x.u57	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have some sympathy for the fact that, for Members of the House who have not been members of the Committee of Inquiry and therefore have not attended the meetings, not everything is equally clear or that they do not understand certain things. Mr Hedebouw, or Mr Van Hees, that is one pot of water, anyway, you must remain a little serious. When many things are discussed behind closed doors, the problem is, of course, that someone who is not present in committee does not know the details of these discussions. That is true, but that is the Rules of Procedure of the House. The Rules of Procedure of the House are what it is. I understand your frustration. To be honest, I had less sympathy with Mr Gilkinet's speech, which was never present in committee either. After all, his group was represented. He has just said exactly the same thing as Mrs Almaci in another language, which means that the debate is taking longer. That has no added value. In that sense, I understand what you are saying. However, Mr Van Hees, you make assumptions that are not based on facts. You may give your interpretation. I don't have a problem with that. However, try to limit yourself to facts that you have been able to control.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-13-54-plenair-ip180x.u58	I applaud this speech, which, moreover, is empty in substance. I applaud him, why? Because somehow, you're right. You say that very interesting things have been revealed in camera. If you knew, you wouldn't say what you're saying, but that's it, by pretexting the in camera, you can't say anything! You yourself have demonstrated the problem of this closed session and that between you that the traditional parties have organized because, obviously, there were very serious things to hide, what you have done.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-13-54-plenair-ip180x.u59	Colleague, there is a judicial investigation going on. That is why we have been very careful. I think that was entirely justified. Moreover, the electorate decided in the previous elections that your group was not large enough to be part of it.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-13-54-plenair-ip180x.u60	It goes from bad to worse. Don't intervene anymore, because every time you sink!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-13-54-plenair-ip180x.u61	Mr Hedebouw also asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-13-54-plenair-ip180x.u62	As a group leader! Such arrogant talk. How is that possible? You blame a colleague who has not been allowed to sit because you have decided, and you use that as an argument to... (...): (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-13-54-plenair-ip180x.u63	Of course you decided! The opposition parties all supported the fact that we were in it. There are other commissions of inquiry where the PTB sits. It must be said because, indeed, at that time, there was a balance of power on the part of the other opposition parties. You're the right-wing parties! You, the right-wing parties, have always fought for it because you weren't allowed in. Now you're arrogant because of your size. However, that will change in 2018 and 2019, and that is your problem. So, Mr Klaps, you cannot blame us for not having all the information here, and you cannot forbid us from speaking. You said nothing in your own speech; it was completely empty. On the substance, you have not opposed Marco Van Hees' arguments. Go to the bottom or stop talking.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-13-54-plenair-ip180x.u64	Ladies and gentlemen, I would suggest that the tone be lightened a little bit.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-13-54-plenair-ip180x.u65	Mr President, thank you for what you have just said, because what you are saying is important. We have had intense discussions in our committee, but we have always remained respectful, both in terms of behavior and I would like to stress that I do not think that the situation just now is a pleasant precedent and I hope that here in the hemisphere we can no longer see what is going on in the way the debate is going on. Mr Van Hees, I do not agree with you on several points. We have certainly fought with our group for the presence of the PTB in the Committee of Inquiry. That does not alter the fact that what you are quoting is not a matter of unwillingness on the part of our committee of inquiry. In all press articles, you can read that it is about a court's legal decision. A court of law ruled that all those data had to be destroyed. In the Committee of Inquiry we discussed this behind closed doors, but you do not need the information from that meeting behind closed doors, if you had just read the press articles about that particular raid and the datafiles that were made at that time. The court's ruling is public and has been published in all the newspapers. You could have just read that. This is separate from our parliamentary debates or from our differences of opinion as to who may or may not be a member of a committee of inquiry. It's about public information. Now I'll give you information from that meeting behind closed doors. We have tried to get a copy of that data. We regretfully found that the copy had already been destroyed, in accordance with the legal ruling. I do not have any problem with giving it any openness. Those are the facts. Mr Van Hees, you cannot come here today and say that our committee of inquiry would not have done a good job and did not want to find out what happened to those data, if the fact that those files do not exist is simply the result of a court ruling. So I would really like to call on you to approve the report. You will vote as you wish, but I fully support the recommendations of the Committee of Inquiry. In my speech, I said that, and I will not repeat the recommendations now. We call for much better cooperation between the CFI, the BBI, the National Bank, the FSMA and all the authorities involved in such institutions, so that no umbrella is opened and, for example, we are aware of the fact that a deal has been made for an important shareholder in such an institution. You're welcome to make your statement. I have absolutely no problem with that, but let us be factually correct and not attribute cases to a committee that are simply the result of a court ruling.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-13-54-plenair-ip180x.u66	Mr President, I see that there is a great deal of unanimity and I also see that my remarks are being distorted because on this computer data I have not criticized the court decision, no matter what I think. I don't necessarily think it's good, but I didn't criticize her. I have criticized the fact that the Commission has not learned any lessons from this event and has not made any recommendations that would allow this to happen again. That's what I said and I keep it! I would also point out that with regard to tax evasion, since it was still an important part of the file, the recommendations are quite inadequate. Of course, the recommendations of the Panama Papers Commission could be used to fill the gaps in this report and these recommendations. We cannot predict the future, but unfortunately I have the impression that there will be significant gaps in the fight against the big tax fraud and against these bankers who play with people's money. For these reasons, we will vote against this report.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-13-54-plenair-ip180x.u67	Mr President, I would like to ask you and my fellow Members in Parliament about the difficulty of a parliamentary committee of inquiry which has to work while there are legal proceedings in progress. We have also experienced this in the large files on tax fraud, specifically the Beaulieu dossier. At that time, it was particularly difficult to identify certain elements and not to interfere with the judicial investigation. That difficulty has once again proved to be a problem today. I would like to ask all my fellow Members to take this into account before setting up a parliamentary committee of inquiry. This makes it particularly difficult to carry out our work in complete serenity, regardless of the general information that the outside world receives from the press at some point. Furthermore, it is particularly difficult to act on the basis of the information available to the committee. I am asking for a reflection in the Conference or elsewhere on the scope for a parliamentary committee of inquiry. Mr Vanvelthoven, Mr Dispa and others have rightly pointed out the exceptionally difficult procedure through which we had to confine ourselves to a number of elements and, above all, the basic question for this parliamentary committee of inquiry: how is it possible that after the banking crisis a bank could still go bankrupt? In this respect, I would like to draw the attention of my fellow Members to the special efforts of our President to achieve a good result. It is appropriate to pay tribute to the Chamber and to thank President Eric Van Rompuy, who has led this committee in a special way. A lot of fellow Members have already touched on what has gone wrong. However, one basic element is clear: the European Commission had ordered Ethias to renounce the Ethias Bank. No one, no pavement, was prepared in Belgium to take over that Ethias Bank. In the end, they ended up in a construction in which the shareholder was able to live up to the common thread in the whole story and, because of his exceptional position, thought he could afford more. Thanks to our work, we have managed to come up with a number of recommendations. We have noted that many of the recommendations of the previous committee of inquiry in the wake of the banking crisis have brought the supervisor closer to the essence of the matter, namely how to prevent malicious systems from being created or using a banking licence maliciously. The fact that we have not been able to prevent bankruptcy must encourage caution on the part of everyone in this House. As Mr Dispa said, this is not a nice message for the customers. On the other hand, we are once again proposing a number of stricter measures not only to give the supervisor teeth, but also to increase the enforceability of his proposals. I hope that a majority in this House can be found to turn these recommendations into legislative texts. We have learned an important lesson here. Let us hope that this is the last lesson and that we will never see a bank go bankrupt in this country again. Let us hope that a bank will never again be handed over to a number of people who can abuse it. I believe that the committee has given a clear signal in this respect. I hope that these recommendations will be followed by everyone so that they can be translated into legal texts or into orders for both the FSMA and the National Bank of Belgium.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-13-54-plenair-ip180x.u68	The last word is for the chairman of the committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-13-54-plenair-ip180x.u69	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is now 10.30 p.m. I will not repeat what has already been said. I have to admit that I was sceptical when I accepted the chair of this committee because I thought it was a very politicised issue at the time. I have said, and my fellow Members know, that we are going to investigate why, at this time, after the major banking crisis of a few years ago, a bank can still go bankrupt. What happened there when the bank finally went bankrupt? I would like to thank all the members of the Committee of Inquiry. The committee was able to count on their great commitment. They have looked at things objectively and not ideologically and politically. I believe that the committees of inquiry which succeed are those committees of inquiry which exclude party politics, where ideology is excluded and where the search for truth is sought, where solutions are sought. I would also like to thank the experts who have accompanied us, as well as our counsellor and the committee secretariat, Tom De Geeter and Nadia Marion, who have given excellent support in drafting the report. We were faced with a difficult task. We have kept party politics out. I believe that this was a good thing in the end. We can support that, too. At the start of Optima Bank, party politics did not play along. Other things have played with that. That was said earlier. Even in the event of bankruptcy, it was not the policy that bankrupted the bank. On the contrary, I believe that the National Bank has done everything it can, perhaps too long, for five years, to keep Optima Bank on its feet and ensure continuity. After all, the biggest victims of a bank going bankrupt are the depositors. As has already been said, we have also had to take into account the ongoing judicial investigations in various areas. That may have been a problem, but there are several chairmen of committees of inquiry here who have also experienced these difficulties. There are several legal proceedings in progress. We know very well that the lawyers who are involved with certain persons are only looking for one case, namely errors in the parliamentary inquiry. And we haven't made any mistakes. I thank everyone. Mr Vanvelthoven, I admit that sometimes it was difficult to respect the discretion and professional secrecy on which the National Bank stood, but everyone has kept to it. In such delicate matters, we must respect professional secrecy. However, we have received a great deal of information. Saying we didn't get anything doesn't make sense. We have asked a lot of questions to the National Bank in recent weeks, and we have received written answers. We have pages full of detailed items which are covered by professional secrecy and which have not been leaked. Our mission was to investigate why Optima Bank was able to start, how it went bankrupt and where the responsibilities lie. The responsibilities are clear. The main shareholder and management have developed structures to ensure a constant upward flow of money to their own management and their own main shareholders in a hidden way. That is the scandalous thing about this case. People entrust their money to a bank and that bank is going to drain itself, which eventually led to bankruptcy. The press has already raised the question of who is responsible for Optima's bankruptcy. According to Mr Piqueur, that is the National Bank, but it is, of course, the exact opposite. I will not go into detail, but we do need to improve supervision in various areas. Optima Bank was actually an experiment, in the sense that the National Bank held macro surveillance. Optima Bank was the first non-system bank to be supervised by the National Bank without the necessary funds. Secondly, as has been said several times here, it is incomprehensible that the BBI and the CFI had information about what happened in the bank for several years but never passed on to the National Bank. It can't be. That is why we are putting forward, among other things, the need for a communication cell. One of the conclusions of the report is that there must be a reporting obligation, so that such matters do not happen again and that it is necessary to establish afterwards what has gone wrong. Mr President, I would like to thank the members of the committee for their efforts. I think we've done our job. That is the intention of a committee of inquiry. We haven't been on TV much, hardly ever. I didn't read anything about it in the papers. We have drawn our conclusions, and I am proud that we were able to do so unanimously, on behalf of the whole Parliament, with a few exceptions, but they do not want solutions and we will not take them into account.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-13-54-plenair-ip180x.u70	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed. A motion was tabled by Mrs Meyrem Almaci and Mr Benoît Dispa, Peter Vanvelthoven, Luk Van Biesen, Eric Van Rompuy, Ahmed Laaouej, Johan Klaps, Gautier Calomne, Frédéric Daerden, which reads as follows: A motion was tabled by Ms Meyrem Almaci and MM. Benoît Dispa, Peter Vanvelthoven, Luk Van Biesen, Eric Van Rompuy, Ahmed Laaouej, Johan Klaps, Gautier Calomne, Frédéric Daerden, worded as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the reporting and discussion on the parliamentary investigation in charge of investigating the causes of Optima Bank's bankruptcy and any conflict of interest between Optima Group and its components on the one hand and public authorities on the other, - takes note of the report of the Committee of Inquiry (Doc. 54 1938/007); - approves the "Conclusions and Recommendations" of the Committee of Inquiry as set out in Chapters 1 to 6 (p. 32, 47-51, 63-67 and 75-76) '. "The Chamber, having heard the report and the discussion concerning the parliamentary inquiry into the causes of the bankruptcy of Optima Bank and the possible confusion of interests between Optima Group and its components, on the one hand, and public administrations, on the other, - takes note of the report of the Committee of Inquiry (DOC 54 1938/007); - accedes to the "Conclusions and Recommendations" drawn up by the Committee of Inquiry as contained in Chapters 1 to 6 (pp. 32, 47-51, 63-67 and 75-76). The vote on the motion will take place later. The vote on the motion will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-13-54-plenair-ip180x.u71	The CD&V Group has given me the candidacy of Mr Roel Deseyn to replace Mr Veli Yüksel as an alternate member of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe. The CD&V Group has sent me Mr Roel Deseyn's candidacy to replace Mr Veli Yüksel as an alternate member of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe. Since there are no other candidates, there should be no vote and I declare Mr Roel Deseyn elected as an alternate member of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe. Since there are no other candidates, there is no vote and I declare Mr Roel Deseyn elected as an alternate member of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-13-54-plenair-ip180x.u72	In accordance with the decision of the plenary session of 1 June 2017, two calls for candidates were published in the Belgian Official Journal of 9 June 2017, one for the President of the Disciplinary Board and another for the Registrars. In accordance with the decision of the plenary session of 1 June 2017, two calls for candidates were published in the Belgian Monitor of 9 June 2017, one for the Chairman of the Disciplinary Council and one for the Registrars. Only an application for office of President of the Disciplinary Board was submitted within the prescribed time limit; on the other hand none for the Registrar's mandates. Only one candidacy for the term of Chairman of the Disciplinary Board was submitted within the prescribed time limit, but none for the terms of office of Registrar. The following application was made within the prescribed time limit for the term of office of President of the Disciplinary Board: Ms Caroline Vanderkerken, counsellor at the Brussels Appeals Court (only for the term of office of effective member). The following candidacy was submitted within the time limit prescribed for the term of office of Chairman of the Disciplinary Council: Ms Caroline Vanderkerken, Counsellor at the Brussels Court of Appeal (only for the term of effective member). In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 12 July 2017, I propose to deliver Mrs Caroline Vanderkerken's curriculum vitae to the political groups and to publish a seventh call to candidates for the Registrar's mandates in the Belgian Official Journal. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 12 July 2017, I propose that you forward Mrs Caroline Vanderkerken's curriculum vitae to the political groups and publish a seventh call for candidates for the terms of office of Registrar to the Belgian Monitor. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-13-54-plenair-ip180x.u73	The last distributed agenda contains a list of proposals for which consideration has been requested. You have taken note of the list of proposals for consideration in the agenda distributed to you. If there is no objection, I shall consider it adopted; in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, these proposals shall be sent to the committees responsible. If there are no comments on this subject, I will take it into account as a matter of fact and refer the proposals back to the relevant committees in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus will be done Pas d'observation? That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-13-54-plenair-ip180x.u74	Mr President, I would like to ask the urgency of document No. 2588. This is a motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Van Hoof from CD&V to increase the budget for development cooperation to 0,7% of GNI. I want to do that because it's a good proposal. Stronger development cooperation is in the interests of all of us. In addition, over the past decade, CD&V has been in governments that have only lowered the budget for development cooperation. It's good that the spirits have matured. I am convinced that many fellow Members will support the urgency of this good proposal by the majority.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-13-54-plenair-ip180x.u75	This is the motion for a resolution on the allocation of 0.7% of GNI to development cooperation. It is a motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Van Hoof, for which urgency is requested. We speak out about this when we sit down and stand up. Whoever supports the urgency gets up.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-13-54-plenair-ip180x.u76	Mr Vuye, would you like to speak?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-13-54-plenair-ip180x.u77	I've been waving for a while, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-13-54-plenair-ip180x.u78	I apologize.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-13-54-plenair-ip180x.u79	I would have liked to ask the urgency of the proposal No 2596, which deals with the application of language legislation in the peripheral municipalities. In view of the fact that in one of these peripheral municipalities, namely in Linkebeek, French was recently used again in the city council and that case will be before the General Assembly of the Council of State, I think that the political debate here in this Chamber is better than between state councils in their general assembly. That is why I am calling for the urgency of this proposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-13-54-plenair-ip180x.u80	A proposal, ladies and gentlemen, of interpretative law.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-13-54-plenair-ip180x.u81	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 12 July 2017, I also propose the proposal for a resolution (Mrs Anne Dedry and Mrs Muriel Gerkens et al.) amending the Law of 22 August 2002 on Patient Rights, No. 2609/1, to be considered.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-13-54-plenair-ip180x.u82	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 12 July 2017, I also propose that you take into account the motion for a resolution (Ms Anne Dedry and Muriel Gerkens et al.) on the amendment of the Law of 22 August 2002 on patient rights, No 2609/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-13-54-plenair-ip180x.u83	Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-13-54-plenair-ip180x.u84	Mr President, I would like to ask for the urgency of a proposal for a revision of Article 12, paragraph 3, of the Constitution (No 2611/1). It is well known that a vote took place on 15 June last in plenary session which did not allow a qualified majority to be obtained to amend Rule 12. In my report on this occasion, I noted that an extension of the time frame for arrest beyond 24 hours could be useful for the development of police and judicial tasks, and that a consensus could also be reached beyond a proposal to increase the time limit to 48 hours. There is a proposal which is signed by a number of our colleagues and which takes advantage of the reflections which have been developed both in committees (I put an end to the plural) and in plenary. For these reasons, the proponents of the proposal request that this text be considered in the House before we complete our work. I propose that the Committee on the Revision of the Constitution should be able to meet on this subject and be able to deal with this issue quickly. It is appropriate that this matter be decided promptly by the House in such a way that the Senate can consider the matter as soon as it resumes its work.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-13-54-plenair-ip180x.u85	Mr President, what a waste of time, indeed! If, on the benches of a certain enlarged majority in the circumstances, we had heard the good arguments that have been developed on several benches of opposition parties – and even, I am sure, Mr Delperée in his foreground was perhaps also convinced of the relevance of the arguments that we were developing – we could have voted for a long time by increasing the time limit to 48 hours and thus responding to the request of the investigating magistrates themselves. I recall that their representatives said: "48 hours are right for us. With 48 hours, we can work. We don't need any more." So let's go for the urgency but let those who have wasted time not come to say, today, that they will catch up!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-13-54-plenair-ip180x.u86	Ladies and gentlemen, we must take a stand on this request for urgency by sitting and rising.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-13-54-plenair-ip180x.u87	Colleagues, the Committee for the Revision of the Constitution and the Reform of the Institutions will meet tomorrow at 11 a.m. in the Gerard Mercator Room. It's been e-mailed to all members.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-13-54-plenair-ip180x.u88	The Government requested urgent procedure under Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure when submitting the following draft laws: The government requested urgency pursuant to rule 51 of the Rules when introducing the following bills:
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-13-54-plenair-ip180x.u89	1. Draft law on the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing and restricting the use of cash, No. 2566/1. 1. Draft Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and the Financing of Terrorism and the Limitation of the Use of Cash, No. 2566/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-13-54-plenair-ip180x.u90	Mr President, I, like others, have explained this to myself in the Conference of Presidents. This is getting insane! There are practically no more than emergency requests. It really is taking the Rules of the House for a piece of paper. Failure to respect parliamentary procedures and parliamentary work leads me to call on the government to respect Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-13-54-plenair-ip180x.u91	Mr. Chair, on behalf of the government, I would like to ask for urgency on two bills with various provisions. The first concerns social affairs, the second concerns public health. I must point out that these texts have already been examined and voted on in committee. The government's request is that they be voted in plenary before the parliamentary holidays. Why? Because the urgency of the bill on various provisions in the field of social affairs includes...
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-13-54-plenair-ip180x.u92	Minister, excuse me for interrupting, but we have to treat them one by one.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-13-54-plenair-ip180x.u93	Mr. President, that's what I'm doing.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-13-54-plenair-ip180x.u94	Let me read what this is about, because I can imagine that not all members of the House are necessarily aware of it.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-13-54-plenair-ip180x.u95	That's what I was going to say, Mr. President, but you can do if you wish.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-13-54-plenair-ip180x.u96	First, there is an urgent need for the draft law on the prevention of money laundering and the financing of terrorism and the limitation of the use of cash. 1. Draft law on the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing and restricting the use of cash, No. 2566/1. 1. Draft Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and the Financing of Terrorism and the Limitation of the Use of Cash, No. 2566/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-13-54-plenair-ip180x.u97	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, you are in charge of the agenda. If you want to change the device, I don't have a problem with that. These are Bills Nos. 2566 and 2567, which should be considered tomorrow, Friday 14 July, in the Finance Committee. This is the transposition of the fourth anti-money laundering directive. Two drafts had been drafted because two different articles of the Constitution were concerned, but the subject was the same. The transposition of the fourth anti-money laundering directive was due to take effect by 26 June 2017. The European Commission had announced that it would immediately issue a notice to those countries that had not transposed the Directive by that date. The European Commission has been informed that the bill has been tabled in Parliament and we have asked it to take this into account. Since Belgium is subject to strengthened monitoring by the FATF and has to submit an annual report, it would be particularly inappropriate at international level to wait until such time as this directive is transposed. These bills also contain provisions to meet international standards for the prevention of money laundering and the financing of terrorism, as specified in the FATF's 40 recommendations. That is the purpose of this urgent request which I believe it is necessary to deal with before the parliamentary holidays.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-13-54-plenair-ip180x.u98	Mr. Speaker, I would just like to say that if we are here today, it is because the government has been very late in tabling this bill. One of the two files you are referring to, Minister, is at least 700 pages long. It is particularly technical. It will require an in-depth review, debate. Asking for urgency and thus restricting the space for political and parliamentary discussions is not acceptable. We don't have to pay the price of your inertia! Finally, we must be able to respect Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-13-54-plenair-ip180x.u99	Is that a political innovation?!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-13-54-plenair-ip180x.u100	Mr President, this is absolutely not serious. As Mr Laaouej says, we have received the bundle. The first text contains seven hundred pages. The second text deals with a regulation on the Council of State, which is a separate text, because it concerns a bicameral issue, which can therefore still be evoked by the Senate. What exactly are we doing? That's not a serious way to work, is it? If the government now says that the texts must be dealt with urgently, it only shows that the government has done nothing for three years to present them to Parliament in good time. Now the 700 pages are to be chased through on one Friday afternoon? Mr President, I would ask you not to accept this. That's not serious. As President of the Chamber, you cannot accept that.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-13-54-plenair-ip180x.u101	Mr Van Hecke, the President will follow the decision of the Chamber. I shall therefore put the request for urgent procedure to the vote. I would suggest that we speak on this question. I propose that we take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-13-54-plenair-ip180x.u102	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-13-54-plenair-ip180x.u103	Mrs Onkelinx, I must respect the Rules of Procedure. Those who support urgency stand up. Countertest.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-13-54-plenair-ip180x.u104	2. Draft law on the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing and restricting the use of cash as regards certain accelerated review procedures before the Council of State, No. 2567/1. 2. Draft Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and the Financing of Terrorism and the Limitation of the Use of Cash in Certain Accelerated Recourse Procedures to the Council of State, No. 2567/1. This bill was explained by the Minister. Who supports this urgency? Countertest. Mr Calvo asks for the electronic vote. Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes 78 Yes No. 59 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 137 Total
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-13-54-plenair-ip180x.u105	3. Draft law laying down various provisions on social affairs, No. 2592/1. 3. Draft Law on Miscellaneous Provisions in Social Matters, No. 2592/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-13-54-plenair-ip180x.u106	Mr President, these are various provisions in connection with the recent interprofessional agreement which the government wishes to implement fully. In addition, this bill is urgent as it implements the sixth reform of the State. It contains the legal basis for transferring FAMIFIED staff members to federated entities. This will ensure continuity in the payment of family allowances. Finally, this bill also implements the reform of the social inspection services. Skills should be transferred as quickly as possible to prevent cases of fraud from being detected and remain unpunished. I would remind you that this text was voted on in committee this week.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-13-54-plenair-ip180x.u107	I propose that we also vote on this electronically. Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 2) Yes 78 Yes No. 48 No Abstentions 11 Abstensions Total 137 Total
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-13-54-plenair-ip180x.u108	4. Draft law laying down various health provisions, No. 2599/1. 4. Draft law on various provisions in the field of health, No. 2599/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-13-54-plenair-ip180x.u109	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the bill with various provisions on health is also urgent, since, in the context of the reform of the hospital sector, several cases will be announced for which it is important to have more details quickly as to the choice of procedure to be followed for their finalization. The bill contains the implementation of the agreement framework agreed with physicians earlier this year following the notification of the cancellation of the current tariff agreement. However, this framework of agreements is subject to a tight timing since legal provisions must be made within a period of six months and before the overall budgetary objective is set, so no later than the third Monday of October. In the event of a breach of this agreement, obtaining a future 2018-2019 agreement would be put at risk, which would mean that the patient's tariff security could no longer be guaranteed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-13-54-plenair-ip180x.u110	Mr President, I would like to speak on this. We talked to the Minister of Health last week. We agreed to work on the text, even if we received it very late. We also agreed to work on the draft version. We had scheduled days, including Friday, and agreed that the final version should be voted before the holidays. That's what we did. And today, I think it is a disrespect for parliamentarians to ask for urgency when we all agreed to vote in committee and vote in plenary next week. This lacks dignity and respect. It's pointless.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-13-54-plenair-ip180x.u111	We will take a decision on the question of urgency. We'll vote electronically. Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 3) Yes 79 Yes No. 59 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 138 Total
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-13-54-plenair-ip180x.u112	This inquiry was developed in public meeting of the Public Health, Environment and Renewal Committee of the Society on 5 July 2017. This interview was held at the public meeting of the Commission for Health, the Environment and Social Renewal of 5 July 2017. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 226/1): - a motion of recommendation was tabled by Ms. Catherine Fonck; - a simple motion was tabled by Mr Dirk Janssens. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 226/1): - a motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mrs Catherine Fonck; - a simple motion was tabled by Mr Dirk Janssens. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put this motion to the vote. Ms. Fonck informed me that she withdrew her motion for recommendation. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of voting / Start of the vote. Did everyone vote and check their vote? / Did everyone vote and check his voice? End of voting / End of vote. Result of the vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-13-54-plenair-ip180x.u113	Yes 77 Yes No. 58 No Abstentions 3 Abstensions Total 138 Total The simple motion was adopted. The simple motion has been passed. Reason for abstention? Reason for abstinence?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-13-54-plenair-ip180x.u114	Mr President, I am continuing my efforts to justify my abstention, since I am pairing up for Mrs Ben Hamou. That will be the case for the votes in this sitting.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-13-54-plenair-ip180x.u115	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-13-54-plenair-ip180x.u116	Vote on Amendment No 4 by Georges Gilkinet cs on article 2. (2492/7) Vote on Amendment No 4 by Georges Gilkinet cs to Article 2. (2492/07) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 5) Yes 44 Yes No. 78 No Abstentions 17 Abstensions Total 139 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 2 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 2 was adopted. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]] The members of the sp.a Group present voted in favour. Vote on Amendment No 5 by Georges Gilkinet cs on article 3. (2492/7) Vote on Amendment No 5 by Georges Gilkinet cs to Article 3. (2492/07) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 6) Yes 54 Yes No. 78 No Abstentions 7 Abstensions Total 139 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 3 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 3 was adopted. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]] Vote on Amendment No 6 by Georges Gilkinet cs to insert an article 3/1(n). (2492/7) Vote on Amendment No 6 by Georges Gilkinet cs to insert an Article 3/1(n). (2492/07) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 7) Yes 57 Yes No. 78 No Abstentions 4 Abstensions Total 139 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-13-54-plenair-ip180x.u117	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-13-54-plenair-ip180x.u118	Mr President, I want to justify my vote because the government has worked in small packages. In my view, a comprehensive reform would have been more judicious. In addition, the penitential aspect of certain professions such as nurses, prison guards, police and military has still not been taken into account. For these reasons, I will abstain.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-13-54-plenair-ip180x.u119	Thank you, Mr. Carcaci. Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 8) Yes 78 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 61 Abstensions Total 139 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (2492/8) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (2492/8) Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-13-54-plenair-ip180x.u120	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 9) Yes 138 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 138 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (2493/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (2493/4)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-13-54-plenair-ip180x.u121	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 10) Yes 89 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 50 Abstensions Total 139 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (2276/6) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (2276/6) Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-13-54-plenair-ip180x.u122	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 11) Yes 139 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 139 Total Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft law. (2472/5) Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a bill for Royal Assent. (2472/5)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-13-54-plenair-ip180x.u123	Vote on Amendment No 4 by Christian Brotcorne cs on article 9. (2529/5) Vote on Amendment No 4 by Christian Brotcorne cs to Article 9. (2529/5) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 12) Yes 54 Yes No. 79 No Abstentions 5 Abstensions Total 138 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 9 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 9 was adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-13-54-plenair-ip180x.u124	Mr President, I voted against.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-13-54-plenair-ip180x.u125	Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Vote on Amendment No 5 by Christian Brotcorne cs on article 10. (2529/5) Vote on Amendment No 5 by Christian Brotcorne cs to Article 10. (2529/5) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-13-54-plenair-ip180x.u126	Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 10 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 10 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 6 by Christian Brotcorne cs on article 11. (2529/5) Vote on Amendment No 6 by Christian Brotcorne cs to Article 11. (2529/5) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-13-54-plenair-ip180x.u127	Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 11 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 11 was adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-13-54-plenair-ip180x.u128	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 13) Yes 96 Yes No. 2............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 41 Abstensions Total 139 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (2529/6) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (2529/6) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-13-54-plenair-ip180x.u129	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes 138 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 139 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (2467/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (2467/4) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-13-54-plenair-ip180x.u130	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 15) Yes 117 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 20 Abstensions Total 137 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (2476/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (2476/4) Mrs Heeren has voted in favour and Mrs Caprasse has abstained. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-13-54-plenair-ip180x.u131	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 16) Yes 138 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 138 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (2505/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (2505/4) Mr Dallemagne also voted in favour.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-13-54-plenair-ip180x.u132	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 17) Yes 139 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 139 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (2520/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (2520/4)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-13-54-plenair-ip180x.u133	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / Fin du vote. Result of the vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-13-54-plenair-ip180x.u134	Yes 127 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 12 Abstensions Total 139 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (2542/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (2542/4) Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-13-54-plenair-ip180x.u135	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-13-54-plenair-ip180x.u136	Yes 78 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 61 Abstensions Total 139 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (2543/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (2543/4) Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-13-54-plenair-ip180x.u137	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-13-54-plenair-ip180x.u138	Yes 79 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 59 Abstensions Total 138 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (2407/13) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (2407/13) Mr. Devin abstained. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-13-54-plenair-ip180x.u139	This motion was tabled in plenary on July 13, 2017. This motion was tabled in the plenary session of 13 July 2017. A motion was tabled by Messrs. Benoît Dispa, Peter Vanvelthoven, Luc Van Biesen, Eric Van Rompuy, Ahmed Laaouej, Johan Klaps, Gautier Calomne and Frédéric Daerden and Mrs Meyrem Almaci. A motion was tabled by Mr Benoît Dispa, Mr Peter Vanvelthoven, Mr Luc Van Biesen, Mr Eric Van Rompuy, Mr Ahmed Laaouej, Mr Johan Klaps, Mr Gautier Calomne, Mr Frédéric Daerden and Mrs Meyrem Almaci. I put to the vote the motion of Messrs. Benoît Dispa, Peter Vanvelthoven, Luc Van Biesen, Eric Van Rompuy, Ahmed Laaouej, Johan Klaps, Gautier Calomne and Frédéric Daerden and Mrs Meyrem Almaci. I put to the vote the motion by Mr Benoît Dispa, Mr Peter Vanvelthoven, Mr Luc Van Biesen, Mr Eric Van Rompuy, Mr Ahmed Laaouej, Mr Johan Klaps, Mr Gautier Calomne, Mr Frédéric Daerden and Mrs Meyrem Almaci. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of voting / Start of the vote. Did everyone vote and check their vote? / Did everyone vote and check his voice? End of voting / End of vote. Result of the vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-13-54-plenair-ip180x.u140	Yes 126 Yes No. 2............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 8 Abstensions Total 136 Total The motion was adopted. (1938/8) The motion has been passed. (1938/8) Mrs Lanjri and Mrs Heeren voted in favour. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-13-54-plenair-ip180x.u141	We must proceed with the adoption of the agenda for the week of 17 July 2017. We must proceed to the approval of the agenda of the sittings for the week of 17 July 2017. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] The agenda has been adopted. No observation? [[No]] The agenda was approved. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Wednesday 19 July 2017 at 2.15 p.m. The meeting is adjourned. Next sitting on Wednesday 19 July 2017 at 2.15 p.m.
