ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-19-54-commissie-ic786x.u1	Colleagues, Mr Nollet is apologised for this meeting and has asked to turn his oral questions into written questions. He hopes to receive the answers in session or tomorrow. Questions No 22448, No 22462, No 22449, No 22451, No 22452, No 22453, No 22454, No 22455, No 22456, No 22457, No 22459, No 22461 by Mr Jean-Marc Nollet shall be converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-19-54-commissie-ic786x.u2	Minister, recently off the coast of Scotland, the first ever floating wind farm has started producing electricity. With a capacity of 30 MW, this floating wind farm is capable of generating enough electricity to supply 20,000 households. The Norwegian oil company Statoil is at the origin of this concept, using unprecedented engineering and logistics techniques. If this concept proves to be viable, it could be very interesting to cover the energy needs of States and prove useful in terms of alternative energies. Minister, have you ever analysed the issue of floating wind farms? Is such a wind farm possible in Belgium in order to develop our energy mix?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-19-54-commissie-ic786x.u3	Jadin, the technology of floating wind farms is still under development. This technology is only applicable in situations where the depth of water is greater than 50 metres, which unfortunately does not exist on the Belgian continental shelf, where the maximum depth is about 40 metres. Floating wind farm projects under development are located in areas with the minimum depth required. They are limited to low power (less than 40 MW) compared to the powers of Belgian offshore wind farms.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-19-54-commissie-ic786x.u4	Madam Minister, I learn that the Belgian continental shelf is only 40 metres deep. I dare to dream out loud by imagining European cooperation for this type of alternative energy. Let us remain optimistic and continue to dream realistically.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-19-54-commissie-ic786x.u5	I have a dream!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-19-54-commissie-ic786x.u6	Mr President, Madam Minister, you see that I am also digging – but perhaps not in depth. Mr Tanguy Detroz, CEO of DAPSO, a remote monitoring company for the consumption of buildings, complained in an article published a few months ago of an anticipated and planned shortage of electricity supply, not only in Belgium, but also throughout Europe. According to him, large industrialists are no longer interested in massive investment in electricity production infrastructure. It therefore proposes the creation of free zones (eco-neighbourhoods, zonings, etc.) and the support of small local actors able to manage demand, produce locally and store in the short term the surplus produced by renewable energy. Mr. Chairman, Madam Minister, I must inform you that I tabled my question on October 10. Perhaps my first question may, therefore, prove to be irrelevant. Do you confirm that we are going to have to face difficulties in electrical supply? What do you think of this idea of creating free zones? What about assistance to local actors? The latter question could be answered in writing.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-19-54-commissie-ic786x.u7	Mr President, Mrs Jadin, the study by Elia, which I commissioned and which is entitled "Study of the adequacy and estimation of the need for flexibility of the electricity grid for the period 2017-2027" – published in April 2016 – shows that new capacity in production, storage and demand management will have to be introduced in order to overcome the closure of the nuclear power plant and thus maintain a level of security of supply in accordance with the legal criteria laid down in Article 7a, § 2, 3° of the Law of 29 April 1999 on the organisation of the electricity market. In this context, as you know, the federal government and the Regions are working together to put in place, I hope, an energy pact to meet these needs.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-19-54-commissie-ic786x.u8	But with you!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-19-54-commissie-ic786x.u9	The aim of the Energy Pact is to determine an energy vision by 2050, specifying the various objectives, particularly in relation to climate. Free zones or short circuits would be micro-networks developed in parallel with electricity distribution networks. In this case, this is more about the Regions, which are better able to deal with these issues. Nevertheless, I will answer you. This is indeed a very interesting issue and one that hangs us in some way at the nose in the coming years, knowing that perhaps, at regional and GRD level, we are not sufficiently ready. Studies carried out by different professors tend to show that it would be wise to develop micro-networks more boldly, not necessarily in the margins of electricity distribution networks, by launching at regional level a decretal political impulse identical to that of the federal one initiated in July 2017. In fact, last July, the "flexibility" law on the conditions for the development of large-scale storage and demand management on a large scale, i.e. on the central network, was passed in plenary session. Since the TSOs fall under federal and regional TSOs, identical legislation should be able to give impetus at the level of DSOs in order to start developing micro-networks. The aim is to allow the lambda consumer to be a producer who is able to store his production for consumption at another time. When there is sun in winter, its solar panels work, produce electricity that consumers store individually and use when they come home at night. His car can also serve as a battery and can therefore eventually continue to store in the evening by taking electricity produced and stored at home and taking electricity and bringing it elsewhere. And if there's any left, he'll reuse it at home, and so on. These networks can and must therefore be developed in order to reduce our obligation to produce energy at the central level, that which concerns the largest companies and the functioning of the country. This development of micro-networks must be launched at regional level. We have discussed a lot with my regional partners, within the framework of the energy vision that we have developed, which is now being passed on to the various governments in this country and is, for the time being, the subject of a deepening in terms of figures – at least at the federal level. As a result, the Walloon and Brussels governments are already – if they want, nothing prevents them – in a position to develop this legislation that is already part of our vision. It is the development of micro-networks at the regional level. All you have to do is get on with it. As I have said several times, if you need help, I am here to establish this regulation, which is quite sophisticated, complicated. You remember that.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-19-54-commissie-ic786x.u10	Absolutely!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-19-54-commissie-ic786x.u11	It is therefore worth taking advantage of the expertise of the federal government to be able to already develop appropriate decretal legislation in the different regions. Nor are we obliged to wait for this to become a pact. This can be done in the Flemish Region. We can do this in all regions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-19-54-commissie-ic786x.u12	Madam Minister, thank you. I remember very well that it cost us a lot of energy.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-19-54-commissie-ic786x.u13	That's the case!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-19-54-commissie-ic786x.u14	Thank you also for taking the time to answer this last question to let us know what is currently possible. This track is indeed very interesting. It is also possible that the Regions may see things differently in terms of speed. But in any case, continuing in this direction seems to me an excellent thing. Thank you for your very comprehensive answer. If I don't see you any more, I wish you great holidays at the end of the year.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-19-54-commissie-ic786x.u15	Thank you, too. All of you, I say it so as not to forget it: excellent holidays of the end of the year if I do not see you by then.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-19-54-commissie-ic786x.u16	Madam Minister, the Act of 26 March 2014 provides for the possibility for the transmission system operator to establish a strategic reserve for a certain period of time. We have talked about this on a number of occasions. This reserve can then be activated in the event of scarcity. The agreements are laid down per production unit in a royal decree. So far, however, we have not managed to secure the two royal decisions on the Vilvoorde gas plant and the Seraing gas plant, which are in the strategic reserve. Hence my question: can you give us these two royal decisions?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-19-54-commissie-ic786x.u17	Ladies and gentlemen, I cannot give you a positive answer. For the obvious reason of non-dissemination of commercially sensitive information, I cannot give you the royal decrees requested.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-19-54-commissie-ic786x.u18	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. We will have to go on other slopes, because I find it strange that Parliament cannot have access to the agreements on the strategic reserve. However, in the coming weeks and months these data will be very important in view of the following arrangements. I think it is absolutely necessary for Parliament to know what has been agreed on this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-19-54-commissie-ic786x.u19	That's confidential information. It's an individual royal decision. It depends on whether or not the company wants me to forward that royal decision.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-19-54-commissie-ic786x.u20	That's what I understand. But even so, it seems strange to me that agreements are being made without Parliament being able to exercise control over them.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-19-54-commissie-ic786x.u21	Madam Minister, I am going to shorten my questions a bit, because we have been able to hear a number of answers in recent days. A number of issues will probably also be discussed in the coming weeks, especially when it comes to the figures. We have already discussed the agreement on the Energy Pact. I think it is important to know what role you still see in this procedure for Parliament. Is the agreement intended to be submitted to Parliament before you submit it to stakeholders and others at a final stage? What role do you see for consumer organisations and energy producers? Are we really talking about an energy pact, not just an agreement between governments, but also between the government and the various stakeholders as is happening abroad? Or is this pact only concluded between governments without the stakeholders having a say in it? A second point concerns the support mechanism and the Elia study. We've already talked about that. Do you already have a view today of the cost of that support or capacity mechanism? What is the distribution between families and companies? I can imagine that this is part of the further elaboration and calculation of the agreement. I leave it to you to say more. The coalition agreement also provides for a monitoring and correction mechanism to ensure security of supply, sustainability and affordability. In this way, these matters can also be managed in the long term. It seems clear to me that this will then be worked out at the same time as the rest of the energy agreement. After all, the monitoring and correction mechanism must be in the same passage. My question then is how far you stand with that. When will this mechanism be presented to Parliament? What does the implementation of this mechanism mean for the agreement that you have reached with the other three Energy Ministers in the meantime? Thank you for your answers in this regard.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-19-54-commissie-ic786x.u22	Mr Wollants, I assume that is the content of your three questions?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-19-54-commissie-ic786x.u23	Mr President, these are the relevant passages of the three questions that the Minister has not yet answered in plenary. So I've arranged for a certain discount.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-19-54-commissie-ic786x.u24	Mr President, Mr Nollet has turned all the points that concern him into written questions, so we have time, which I can devote to this debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-19-54-commissie-ic786x.u25	We will see on a case-by-case basis. I wanted to make sure that this was the content of your three questions. Mr de Lamotte has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-19-54-commissie-ic786x.u26	Mr. Chair, Madam Minister, a plenary session took place between the tabling of the question and today. In the course of this exercise, we learned of certain elements. I will therefore make a new synthesis of the question I had tabled, because it was not able to follow the current tempo. News has changed things last week and will surely continue to do so. Minister, you've been through these events like me. I still have a few questions, particularly about methodology. In the run-up to the planned schedule, will you request your administration to take certain initiatives regarding the situation? Will your administration conduct its own study based on certain models, predictions and contacts with the stakeholders? You've announced numbers. How do you intend to organize and present them? I want to hear you on a second point. You have launched a consultation of the Belgian population by computer, via platforms. You have even personally referred to the fact that 45,000 respondents participated in this consultation. Has your administration responded to these inquiries? Does it have content as a result of this work? Thirdly, Elia produced the study known on 15 November. However, CREG made some remarks. According to her, the study suffers from some shortcomings. Do you have any additional information on this subject? Have you adopted a position? I'll highlight two facts. The first is an overestimation of the need for additional interconnection capacity, which could, in the long run, have an adverse effect on the ageing Belgian thermal production stock. How do you respond to this remark from the CREG? The second fact is an incomplete cost analysis, which does not take into account the financial consequences on the distribution network. Do you have any answers to these comments from CREG? In addition, the Elias study points to the need to set up, in the near future, a targeted tender for the installation of new gas units which could be put into service by 2025. If there is a capacity of 3,600 to 4,000 MW, this can be discussed. In any case, it would seem unrealistic for me not to call for tenders. I would remind you that you cancelled the previous call for tenders on gas and that Elia comes back with the same proposal three years ago. Minister, have you resumed contacts, in particular, with the European Commission? It comes to my mind that other countries have set up a gas tender and have made contacts with the European Union in order to know exactly what is happening and how it reacts. In my opinion, if nothing has progressed in this area, we have lost three years. I would therefore like to know what action you have taken in relation to the European Commission. Could you also let me know if there is an option in favour of a gas tender, as proposed in the Elias study? In other words, I would like to have more information on your position in this area in order to know what we are heading towards.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-19-54-commissie-ic786x.u27	Mr President, I will make a comprehensive response. I have not noted all the questions of each other. If, throughout my presentation, I forget to answer one or the other question, it will only be necessary to identify the questions to which I have not yet answered.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-19-54-commissie-ic786x.u28	We can do a mini-debate. It's what you want. I want Parliament to have answers. However, we are in the context of joint questions. Mrs Lalieux arrives just in time to ask her question about the Energy Pact.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-19-54-commissie-ic786x.u29	Good morning, Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-19-54-commissie-ic786x.u30	Good morning, Mrs. Lalieux. How are you?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-19-54-commissie-ic786x.u31	All right, and yourself?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-19-54-commissie-ic786x.u32	You've got a beautiful dudoon!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-19-54-commissie-ic786x.u33	A red tweezer!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-19-54-commissie-ic786x.u34	Why red?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-19-54-commissie-ic786x.u35	Because it's winter fun and red is always fun!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-19-54-commissie-ic786x.u36	You're the one who said it!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-19-54-commissie-ic786x.u37	I'm relaxing the atmosphere. Excuse me. Let me turn to my question on the Energy Pact, Madam Minister. It was tabled before the saga on the Energy Pact and the latest events. First of all, Madam Minister, I would like to congratulate you on having obtained the agreement of four Energy Ministers. It wasn't easy. It took three years of negotiations. I will of course not congratulate my dear colleague Wollants of the N-VA of this government, who is undermining the Energy Pact or the Prime Minister, who explains that it is only a working tool, a working base on which we are going to work a lot more. Minister, I am updating my questions. How do you intend to rework this Pact? Didn't you have the encrypted data? This would surprise me, because a lot of studies have, in parallel, quantified all the problems, those of the CREG, of Elia, of the Bureau du Plan and others. How will you encrypt your Pact and respond to the demand, not from the majority of this Parliament or even from this government, but simply from the N-VA that dictates its law? What will be the timing? How will you renegotiate with two ministers, Mr Crocket in the Walloon government and Mrs Fremault in the Brussels government, who have validated the Pact? I imagine they're maintaining the Pact. What happened was an extension of nuclear power after 2025. You knew that all the actors needed – and you had finally achieved it – lines, positions, tracks, tracks. Today, everything is postponed. As a result, calls for tenders – as Mr Wollants knows – for gas or other power plants are postponed. We will therefore not be ready to get out of nuclear power. The situation we experienced last week is dramatic for this country and its energy future as well as for the actors.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-19-54-commissie-ic786x.u38	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I will repeat, as an introduction, what I have already had the opportunity to say, so that we can see the framework in which we operate. After weeks of work, the four energy ministers managed to agree on an energy vision. It is quite exceptional and interesting to be emphasized. In my mind, it has always been, first of all, the agreement of four energy ministers. I'm paralleling the burden sharing, which was the agreement between four climate ministers. Then, for a year, there was the drafting of a legal text reflecting this agreement. Since there were relations of solidarity between the different levels of power, a cooperation agreement was needed. Financial transfers can be made at some point for x, y, z reasons. It is not simple to draft a legal text that reflects political agreements. Here, it's a little the same thing, all proportions kept in comparison. It is four ministers, from four different executive branches, who refer to their executive, after having spoken to it at different times, but not in as complete a manner as when their own executive takes the entire text into consideration. The usual course of preparation of any text proposed to an executive is followed, that is, a working group is formed and the various coalition partners react. This has gone well – and so much the better – in Wallonia and Brussels. As I said earlier to Kattrin Jadin, who asked me a question about micro-networks, Wallonia and Brussels can already, if they so wish, initiate policies, draft decrees reflecting the elements that come essentially from their competence. Nothing prevents them, on the contrary. As far as the Federal and Flemish regions are concerned, there is also nothing to prevent them from continuing the work already begun. If I was well prepared, it is because I have already started a series of policies to look decisively at the future and the energy transition. Remember, last July, we examined in committee and voted in plenary on the "flexibility" law concerning storage on the transport network and demand management. Basically, it's something that's turned towards the future. This is made increasingly necessary by the increased presence of intermittent renewable energy sources. In this context, at the federal level, we have also succeeded in finalising the negotiations with the last three offshore parks by drastically reducing the support provided to them by the various stakeholders, including the consumer, in order to achieve the objectives of burden sharing by 2020 in terms of the development of renewable energy and to ensure that, in the context of the energy transition, the share of renewable energy is further increased in the energy mix. In Flanders, as in Brussels and Wallonia, there have been various policies. Everyone continues their journey. The pact is, in the end, precisely and only an agreement between the four Executives concerned. The vision developed by the four Energy Ministers, who return to their own executive, will become a pact when the four Executives align themselves with a text that will be accepted by everyone. Will this text change fundamentally after the Brussels, Walloon, Flemish and federal governments have accepted the vision of the emerging pact? I don't know, but I don't want to. That's my state of mind. I stand up for the vision we have agreed on. In fact, in this debate, I do not agree with anyone and I agree with everyone. I can consider several exit scenarios.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-19-54-commissie-ic786x.u39	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-19-54-commissie-ic786x.u40	No, sir de Lamotte! That's quick to say. Your words have no basis. I remind you that in the government agreement that you know by heart, it is indicated that every energy should be viewed without taboo with its advantages and disadvantages. I can therefore present to you several scenarios of energy transformation of our economy, highlighting the advantages and disadvantages. It is on this basis that I can, for each of them – and, in particular, for this one, which is a choice – sort out the advantages and disadvantages. Getting only the first without the second is impossible. From the moment one makes a choice of society, if one expresses his fear of nuclear and radioactive waste, then one obviously opts for another solution that will have its advantages and disadvantages. I have had the opportunity to say it and I repeat it – that is why I can agree with everyone and with no one – this option causes more CO2 than nuclear. Next, it will cost more than nuclear-depreciated power plants, for the good and simple reason that new gas plants – like any new installation: offshore and onshore wind farms, solar panels, ACO storage, etc. – require a period of depreciation, so that they no longer strike the prices charged to the consumer for the production and operation of the installations and their maintenance. It's clear and clear. It must be said, and I will repeat: the truth must be told, because we must make a choice with full knowledge of the matter. That is why the question asked by a partner – and everyone is free to ask – is far from stupid. This should therefore be answered in depth. The aim is obviously to convince of the relevance of the choice that has been made by indicating that you have to take a left or a right. I'm not talking about politics, Mrs. Lalieux, I assure you right away...
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-19-54-commissie-ic786x.u41	That's for sure.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-19-54-commissie-ic786x.u42	Nothing's safe. So we're taking one direction, not another. I could say the opposite: it's on the right or on the left – for me, it's the same. In this matter, it is quite the same. As far as the gas is concerned, and I will discuss the monitoring afterwards, you spent a day of hearings with EnergyVille, the CREG, Elia, in the presence of Professor Albrecht perhaps...
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-19-54-commissie-ic786x.u43	There were eight guests: institutions and academics.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-19-54-commissie-ic786x.u44	We know these guests and their studies. We have taken their most recent studies as a basis for work in order to develop our four-way vision. The CREG highlighted one very important point: Elia has forgotten that there are existing gas plants on our territory. Indeed, we have series of gas power plants for 4,346 MW of installed capacity, including those belonging to the reserve, that is to say Seraing and Vilvoorde. They are not all at the same time of life. Some are younger than others and some are more advanced in their lifespan. Elia forgot to mention the fact that a power of 2,400 MW of these plants can be extended with investments that I would call youth, i.e. investments that enable them to continue their road while being more efficient. If we have more than 2,400 MW of power to extend in addition to the others for a power of 2,000 MW that can operate without additional investment (update) until 2035-36, listen to what I'm telling you, I only have to install a congruous portion in terms of new plants, not the nine plants that Elia was talking about, but the four. We already know what these four plants would cost, where they could be set up, their financial weight to bear in terms of support. But what we don't know yet, I grant you, is how to distribute them and the support mechanism that will be needed at first, since, as soon as there is a transition, with any new gas power plant, like any new installation in our energy system – we are not alone in this problem – we have to purge old installations to make future installations happen. These two strata form the transition. At some point, they overlap and create a situation of overflow. The market then works less well and needs to be supported in one way or another, to accelerate or to advance the transition in the direction of choices made. Colleagues, I have been thinking about this for months at the federal level. The federal government is concerned with large power plants because it is responsible for supply. I, together with my regional colleagues, had enough time to remind them of this at all times, because I wanted the vision to include a minimum of numbers. They were not spontaneously inclined to do so. Finally, the central discussion focused on this, as I have always said. I said to them, 'Dear colleagues, the more renewable you will be, the less gas-fired power stations I will have to plan for'. I told them several times. "The more energy efficiency and electric mobility you rely on, the more the effects of CO2 from gas-fired power plants will be reduced. We don't have thirty-six solutions." Once again, we arrive in front of a wall. This is made up of the essential decision that we have taken. It is not a wall in the sense that we are going to crush our forehead. It is a wall in the sense that it forces us to make a decision for the future. To jump above this wall, which is still not so high, we have to go one way or another. Since there is a wall, we can only go to the left or to the right, or to the right or to the left, as you wish. We must therefore make a choice. I'm still not going to install coal-fired power plants like in Germany. I said it again yesterday at the meeting of European ministers, during the discussions that took place. Nor will I install large, well-polluting oil-fired generators. So we only have one solution: gas. We need to know what we have on our territory in this area. I just made an inventory of it for you. It is important to know that rejuvenation of a small half of what we have in our territory will cost. It is necessary to know the cost of new plants. Secondly, the question will have to be asked, with Europe of course, how we will distribute and organise these facilities, through a support mechanism. You know that I have launched a series of studies, including studies from CREG, studies for the support mechanism, studies from my administration. My administration has itself organized a public contract to appoint a consultant (PWC) who will very soon give us the results of his work. The aim is to continue the discussion that I have already begun for a long time on degression for the offshore. I have an exchange with the European Commission on offhsore degression, with the addition of the new mechanism and the tariff line for storage – a law that we passed in July 2017 – as well as the reflection on the support mechanism for gas power plants. As far as the figures are concerned, I have orders of magnitude for new gas-fired power plants – particularly with regard to their price and location – and orders of magnitude on the rejuvenation of existing gas-fired power plants. I also have a start on the question of the distribution between the three poles of consumer citizens, businesses and the state budget. I come to the question of my action vis-à-vis the federal parliament, to which I report, and the monitoring mechanism. In the vision, on page 22 of the French text, there is a point 4 concerning governance and prospects, the implementation of the Covenant and the monitoring of the Covenant. You have read that our wish was to carry out an evaluation every two years, in connection with other texts such as the PNEC and the Air-Climate Plan which we must return to Europe. This monitoring committee will be composed of representatives of the Ministers responsible for Energy and their respective administrations. It will be assisted by eight scientists, up to two per entity. The Committee, under the leadership of an alternate presidency, should oversee the implementation of the Energy Pact. It will meet on an ad hoc basis to update progress and possibly make recommendations for action, taking into account the negotiated objectives. The follow-up committee will address four key issues. It will report to the four energy ministers first. Within 20 days, these ministers will forward this report to an interparliamentary commission, which will discuss this interim report and be able to formulate political measures within two months. The Inter-Parliamentary Commission will consist of four elected representatives per entity. Upon request, the Commission may be assisted by any ad hoc institution, such as the Federal Planning Office or, where appropriate, other advisory councils. That's for the monitoring. As far as the federal parliament is concerned, I have always said, and I continue to say, that the Covenant is not a pact with the stakeholders, nor a pact with the people. Both the stakeholders and the population were interviewed and we used each other's responses to establish our vision. The Covenant binds the four governments. When this Pact exists, because the four governments will be aligned with the vision drawn up by the ministers, I will of course come to present all these elements to you in a forthcoming committee, which will be devoted exclusively to this. Thank you for your attention. I was a little long, but there were many questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-19-54-commissie-ic786x.u45	Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make it clear here that the President of the House writes to the committee chairmen and organises meetings with them to remind them that the timing provided for in the Rules of Procedure for dealing with oral questions must be respected. In doing so, we are forced to delay speaking times.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-19-54-commissie-ic786x.u46	Mr President, given that we can allocate Mr Nollet's speaking time among ourselves, we actually have plenty of time.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-19-54-commissie-ic786x.u47	This is an interpretation that is not that of the Rules of Procedure! Mr. Nollet's not here, that's all! It does not give more time for others to speak!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-19-54-commissie-ic786x.u48	We have heard a number of things in plenary. There are also a number of issues to which some importance must be attached. You refer to the example of the agreement on Burden Sharing. Here too, a solution has been reached between four ministers. I believe that there are indeed many parallels to this and I shall not say more about it. I think everyone knows what I'm talking about. The gas plants, which are still to be built, are not written off. The biggest difference is, of course, the marginal cost of production. That is a much greater difference in terms of market price than the difference in the depreciation of those investments. The depreciation of that investment does not go directly into the market price of electricity because it is determined by the merit order and by how much it costs to produce one additional unit of electricity with a particular technology. I think we should keep this in mind. I hear a lot of talk about the cost of the support mechanism. For us this is very important, but the effects of the merit order on the market price will also have to be paid. We can say that this isn't directly linked, but that's exactly what it is. We must take this into account. We have had the debate on Elijah and the CREG a number of times, even last week in plenary. I think it would be useful to look at how these two scenarios relate to each other, as Elijah has come up with a whole argument in terms of prices. This showed that it was not wise to count on it, especially because they talk about two gigawatts of necessary spare capacity. I don't know if this is true or not. I'm neither Elijah nor the CREG, but I think we should include this in the story. It seems obvious to me that the costs should be shared out. At some point, you say that you need to build fewer gas plants if the regions invest more in renewable energy. That's not how I understood it from the Elia study. If one looks at the scenarios for 2040 they have a scenario with 29 gigawatts of renewable energy. They also have a baseline scenario with just under half. In one case, they need 6.1 gigawatts of gas plants and when there is twice as much renewable energy they reach 6.7 gigawatts. I want to show that there is no one-on-one relationship. I refer, among other things, to the hearings we held a few years ago with then Secretary of State, Catherine Fonck. She said she shouldn't really count wind and solar energy when it comes to security of supply. What you say about the construction of coal-fired power stations is, of course, correct. I would also have liked to see no new ones opened in Germany this week, which is still being done. The construction and opening of new coal power stations is completely on the wrong track. However, I think we need the figures of the scenario agreed by the four ministers. We have to calculate everything again and then run it through Elijah's model and ask for advice on it. That way we will get there and everyone will know what money it is about and who will pay what. Then one can make decisions with the invoice on the table, which is much better than making decisions and seeing the invoice arrive afterwards. We must bring these two discussions together.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-19-54-commissie-ic786x.u49	Mr. Chair, there are questions that the minister has not answered. I wanted to know the position of the government, the opposition and the minister on the CREG report. It seems to me that I did not have an explanation for the overestimation of the interconnection capacity requirements and the financial consequences at the level of the distribution networks. I take note of the discussions and, in any case, of your answers. These are not in it, as the fact of knowing whether one day the administration will, on the basis of quantified measures, propose a scenario. You say the administration is working, but I don't see anything coming in terms of scenario and predictive models that can move us forward on this. You organized a popular consultation, there are 45,000 respondents. Who's doing what in there? What's next? Mr President, that is my reply, but there are four questions that I do not have an answer to.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-19-54-commissie-ic786x.u50	These are not questions!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-19-54-commissie-ic786x.u51	Look, Madam Minister,...
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-19-54-commissie-ic786x.u52	We're going to stay on Mr. de Lamotte's line, then Mrs. Lalieux.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-19-54-commissie-ic786x.u53	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-19-54-commissie-ic786x.u54	Please, Madam Minister, you do not have the floor! Mr. de Lamotte, have you finished your reply?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-19-54-commissie-ic786x.u55	Yes, Mr. Chairman, but I am waiting for the answers to the questions I have asked!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-19-54-commissie-ic786x.u56	Then I'll make a summary. I give the floor to Mrs Lalieux because I would like to remind you that we are in reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-19-54-commissie-ic786x.u57	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, you said you could still talk for a year as a golden share...
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-19-54-commissie-ic786x.u58	I didn't say that. I'll explain why there's a difference. In fact, in this case, there will be no cooperation agreement on the issue of security of supply. Contrary to what you are saying, which is a slight deduction that you make of my remarks, I explained that sometimes there was a little more time between the political agreement and the translation of it. This is the time between the vision and the pact and, in my opinion, it will take a few weeks because there is no cooperation agreement with the regions on gas-fired power plants. I'm sorry, but that's the way it is!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-19-54-commissie-ic786x.u59	Good! It is now a matter of a few weeks, not a year. I will come back at the end of January to ask you about the energy pact figures that we have been waiting for since 2015. Minister, I did not write this government's statement. I'm not the minister of energy. It was not I who announced this pact; it was you; it was the Prime Minister!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-19-54-commissie-ic786x.u60	Mrs Lalieux, I invite you to finish your reply before closing this point.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-19-54-commissie-ic786x.u61	Mr President, as I have pointed out, the minister is in difficulty. She spoke for 35 minutes while I took three minutes to ask my question. I therefore respected the time allotted to me. And now you just have to say a sentence to be interrupted by the minister. So the malaise is real! Having said that, I understand that this case is causing some discomfort. One day, she has a pact. The next day, she doesn't have one anymore, but she talks about "vision." And today she doesn't know what she's got! When I hear it about nuclear power and when I hear Mr Wollants, I think that we have gone very badly into this country to have a real energy transition. In my opinion, today, the nuclear lobby has won.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-19-54-commissie-ic786x.u62	Ladies and gentlemen, we have just spent more than 35 minutes on these joint questions! I think I can say that the Energy Pact will return to the agenda in 2018, perhaps in another context. I would remind you that the debate we have just had is part of the questions and answers; some questions had been tabled long before the events of the last few days or weeks.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-19-54-commissie-ic786x.u63	Mr President, I would like to ask a question about the order of business. Some of the questions that have been asked have not been answered.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-19-54-commissie-ic786x.u64	There is no question of discussing the order of business now, but I promise that we will discuss it at the beginning of 2018. Mr Wollants, you have the floor for your question on the agreement on the public consultation in the framework of the energy vision (No. )
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-19-54-commissie-ic786x.u65	Mr President, given that in the meantime the full results of this survey are on the website, there is little point in me asking this question here. So I withdraw them, and at the same time I wish them all the best here in case I don't see them before the end of the year.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-19-54-commissie-ic786x.u66	Mr President, you can see that I have been patient. As this was an exciting theme, I followed the exchanges with great interest. Minister, on 24 November the European Union presented its third report on the state of the Energy Union. The Commission thus marks its desire for a transition from Europe to a low-carbon society. Minister, what are the main lines of this report that concern Belgium directly? Has the European Union already drawn up concrete energy transition plans common to the 27 Member States, which could benefit our country? What about any financing? Has the European Union developed funding plans for research and the development of future clean energy? What is the European Union's position on nuclear power and the exit of certain countries from this mode of electricity production? Do you consider it possible for the European Union to provide massive aid in the financing of the decommissioning of power plants and in the difficult management of the various waste?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-19-54-commissie-ic786x.u67	Mr Flahaux, my answer will be quite long, but I will try to be as synthetic as possible. What are the broad lines of this report? As you know, as well as the first State of the Energy Union report in 2015, an annex has been added to it. It contains fact sheets on each Member State, in which an overview of the progress made with regard to the different dimensions of the Energy Union is presented. Of course, this applies in particular to Belgium. In addition to the five criteria you know - security of supply, integration of the internal market, energy efficiency and demand management, decarbonisation and innovation "research and competitiveness" - the fact sheet also examines macroeconomic developments and their impact on energy-related activities, competitiveness, regional cooperation and cohesion policy, as well as investments in clean energy. For a comprehensive overview of the situation and progress in all these areas, I would like to refer you to this fact sheet, which is available on the European Commission's website. For this purpose, my collaborator will communicate the link to you, so that you can access it. Some important findings should be noted. With regard to the trade deficit, Belgium continues to be a net importer of fossil fuels and electricity. In concrete terms, the energy product deficit increased from 4.3 per cent of GDP in 2005 to 2.7 per cent in 2015. The Belgian energy mix is very different from that of the other Member States of the European Union. With a smaller share of renewable energy sources, but with a greater increase in relation to the Community average. Between 1% and 6.9% of the energy mix compared to 1995. The share of gas increased by 6 percentage points: 26.6% in 2015 compared to 22% in the EU and, given the direction we take, this will increase. The share of solid fuels showed the largest decrease, by 11 percentage points: 6.1 % in 2015, compared to 16.2 % in the Union. Belgium is one of the countries of the European Union with the highest rate of electricity interconnection: 19% in 2017 - I mentioned it again yesterday at the European meeting of energy ministers - in terms of import interconnection capacity. For 2020, a target of 10% has been set at EU level. That goal must grow. For us, it has already been overtaken. Other projects are under way to further improve interconnection with neighbouring countries. I will have the opportunity to talk to you about it again because, with our German neighbours, there are difficulties. Belgium plays a strategic role in European gas networks. It is also an important transit country. With Zeebrugge, it is an international LNG centre, which improves security of supply in north-western Europe. With regard to the 2020 targets, the progress made in terms of energy efficiency is clear, but a catch-up is still needed to achieve the indicative target of 18%, in line with the commitments made under Article 7 of the Energy Efficiency Directive. With regard to renewables, we have a slight decrease in 2015, due to the decline in the heating, air conditioning and transport sectors. Renewables are not just about energy production. It also concerns other energy segments, in general. But this is higher than the 2015 - 2016 indicative target and the slowdown in the deployment of renewable energy compared to the rest of the Union. In terms of greenhouse gas emissions, it is unlikely that the non-ETS 2020 target of -15 % from 2005 onwards, currently set at 11.5 %, will not be met. We'll make it. A slight surplus is expected for the whole period 2013-2020, so that, thanks to the use of time flexibilities - the path is not linear and can be covered in different ways - Belgium will eventually achieve the objective of the effort-sharing directive. Does the European Union already have concrete energy transition plans common to the 27 that could benefit Belgium? In the field of energy, there are projects in the field of gas and electricity, known as projects of common interest (CIP), or cross-border infrastructure projects whose common objective is to improve the European Union's position on energy independence. As far as gas is concerned, Belgium does not currently have any ongoing projects that can be supported by the Commission under this list, but this will come. However, for electricity, there are a number of ICP projects supported by the Commission in Belgium. There is the NEMO 1000 megawatt marine cable project. You know that a few days ago we, together with the Prime Minister, inaugurated the "stopcontact op zee" in Stevin. I am thinking about the ALEGrO project, because Germany has a very special position on loop flows and does not want to move forward in solving its border congestion problems. I can explain the reasons further on another day. So I'm still careful. Two other projects, Brabo and Mercator - Horta, aim to strengthen northern interconnections in order to better integrate offshore wind energy and guarantee electricity supply around the port and industry of Antwerp. What about possible funding? Belgium is one of the main beneficiaries of the European Fund for Strategic Investments (EFSI) in terms of investments in the energy sector, with a financial contribution of 675 million which mainly benefits offshore wind projects, with a capacity of 1000 megawatts. In addition, Belgium benefits from the Connecting Europe Facility (CEFACT) Fund €417.6 million for sustainable transport projects. As far as energy is concerned, no Belgian project has so far been selected for support from this fund. Are there EU funding plans for research and development of future clean energy? This is Horizon 2020. We can send you the link. What is the European Union's position on nuclear power and the exit of certain countries from this mode of production? In accordance with Article 194 of the Treaty of the European Union, the choice of the energy mix - as I have already said 200 million times, but I repeat - is entirely the responsibility of the Member States. In other words, they are sovereign when it comes to choosing their energy mix. In principle, therefore, the European Union has no position to take on this issue. Nevertheless, in line with the international climate change targets and its own energy and climate policy, as defined in the EU Energy Strategy and the 2030 Energy and Climate Goals, the European Union attaches importance to the phasing out of fossil fuels - uranium is not concerned - and gives priority to energy efficiency and renewable energy. So uranium is not concerned with fossil fuels. The latter refers to oil, gas and coal. Do you think there could be massive EU support for the financing of the decommissioning of plants and the difficult management of different waste? Belgian and European regulations require - and I repeat that we do - that operators of nuclear power plants must provide for and retain adequate financial and human resources to fulfil their obligations with regard to the safety of spent fuel management of radioactive waste, including the dismantling, research and development associated with it (Articles 7 and 8 of the European Directive 2011/70). Massive aid, as you say, is neither desirable nor legally possible. It all depends on what you mean by "massive."
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-19-54-commissie-ic786x.u68	Madam Minister, thank you for your detailed answer and I think our readers will be interested in all these elements. By responding, you have of course opened up other perspectives and I will certainly come back to you later.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-19-54-commissie-ic786x.u69	Mr President, Madam Minister, you have taken the decision not to extend the safety net mechanism established by the Act of 8 January 2012 amending the Act of 29 April 1999 on the organisation of the electricity market and the Act of 12 April 1965 on the transport of gaseous and other products by pipelines, which inserted an article 20bis into the Electricity Act and 15/10bis into the Gas Act. A paragraph 4bis was then inserted in these two articles, by the law of 29 March 2012, according to which the King adopts, by decree, an exhaustive list of the criteria accepted for the elaboration by each supplier of indexing parameters so that they meet transparent, objective and non-discriminatory criteria and are representative of the actual costs of supply. I have repeated to you the legal quotations because I think that is important for the future. Two orders were made on the basis of the latter provision. These are the Royal Decrees of 21 December 2012 laying down an exhaustive list of the criteria allowed for the indexation of gas and electricity prices by suppliers. These provide that the indexing parameters are directly related to electricity and gas market quotations on the Central West Europe market (except for gas). Such provisions are unanimously requested by the Advisory Council on Gas and Electricity, which represents the whole sector, ranging from public authorities to consumer associations, to the various regulators and producer representatives. However, paragraphs 7 of Articles 20bis of the Electricity Act and 15/10bis of the Gas Act indicate that the applicability of these provisions is conditional on the three-year renewal of these provisions by royal decree, which you have refused to do. The above-mentioned decrees therefore lack a legal basis, which means that suppliers will be able to choose another basis for indexing gas and electricity prices. In addition, paragraph 2 of these articles provides that the indexation of variable gas and electricity prices may be made up to four times a year on the first day of each quarter. The representatives of CREG announced to us, at the presentation of their policy note, that with the end of this provision, two suppliers have already announced that they intend to return to monthly indexation. Minister, do you intend to maintain market indexation of gas and electricity prices? If so, how do you intend to proceed? If not, what reasons do you think this will not affect the situation of consumers who were previously protected (SMEs and individuals)? Similarly, do you intend to maintain quarterly indexation of gas and electricity prices? If so, how do you intend to proceed? Let me remind you that you have until 31 December. If not, why do you abandon this provision? Have you made an impact assessment of the potential effects on inflation?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-19-54-commissie-ic786x.u70	Mr. Chair, Madam Minister, you decided to remove the safety net at the end of the month when it had been systematically assessed positively by the CREG. You know that our disagreement with this choice is total, I will not go back to it. On the other hand, I would like to take advantage of this question to ask you whether the entire safety net will be removed or whether you are considering keeping certain elements. Mr President, I will not be longer because I like to abide by the rules, otherwise we will not get away with it.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-19-54-commissie-ic786x.u71	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr de Lamotte, you have already asked me this question in plenary and other colleagues, but not you, have also asked me in committee. I am happy to reply on the basis of the same pattern as you can find in the plenary proceedings and in this committee. This safety net measure has always been presented as temporary. In fact, initially, the safety net mechanism, proposed by Secretary of State Wathelet and established by the Act of 8 January 2012, was scheduled until 31 December 2014 inclusive. As regards the end of the safety net mechanism, reference should be made to the government agreement as early as October 2014. The agreement states that the government will take the initiative to "extend the current mechanism provisionally for one year. The mechanism will be abandoned by 31 December 2017 at the latest." On 10 December 2014, on my proposal, as soon as this government took office, it approved a draft royal decree that extended the safety net mechanism not for a year as provided for in the government agreement but for a further period of three years. The safety net will end on December 31, 2017. With this in mind, the Advisory Council to CREG, in its opinion of 17 May 2017, which was sent to me in June 2017, asked me to keep two acquisitions of the safety net. Firstly, the monitoring of prices by CREG, which consists of updating the database of all residential and SME products in order to give the consumer the opportunity to compare. Secondly, the maintenance of the Royal Decrees of 21 December 2012 laying down an exhaustive list of the criteria allowed for the indexation of electricity prices by suppliers. Wishing to give favourable effect to this opinion, I had asked my administration on 17 July to provide me with proposals to ensure that the Royal Decrees on indexation continue to produce all their effects and remain applicable despite the end of the safety net in December 2017. The administration's response, dated October 9, 2017, was received on October 13, 2017. A working group of ministers' collaborators took place just before Toussaint's leave. In view of the 30 days required to seek the opinion of the Council of State, the timetable did not allow me to present the draft to Parliament before the end of the year. The agenda was already overloaded, according to each other's own statements. In addition, the proposal contained the maintenance of quarterly indexation, which was not included in the Advisory Board's request. The text should therefore be amended to conform to the opinion of the Advisory Board. A new proposal is to be discussed in a working group, with a view to a decision by the Council of Ministers. This did not guarantee the adoption of the text until 31 December. What will happen on 1 January? First of all, prices will not automatically go up. Indeed, the price of energy consists of different elements. The safety net mechanism focuses solely on the pure energy component, i.e. 30 per cent of the invoice. In addition, the measure concerns standard contracts in which the energy price is variable, not fixed-price contracts which the majority of residential customers have signed. As from 1 January, quarterly indices will therefore be deleted. They may take place on a monthly basis. Indexations work upwards, but also downwards. As a result, suppliers will be able to adjust their tariffs more quickly, both upwards and downwards. As a reminder, if a supplier indexes its tariffs upwards, the consumer may change supplier at any time, subject to one month's notice. My objective therefore remains to maintain the effects of the royal decrees, but this cannot be done until 31 December 2017. A draft bill to this effect will be proposed to the government's partners to ensure that this legislation converges with the objectives we pursue.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-19-54-commissie-ic786x.u72	Of which act. But when the minister tells me that a bill will be tabled soon, I do not know the deadline. The freedom of monthly indexation shall be renewed from 1 January 2018. There is therefore a clear risk of a monthly increase in the price of energy. That's what I wanted to know.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-19-54-commissie-ic786x.u73	In fact, wisdom would have wanted this safety net to be maintained and the government to be persuaded to do so. That would have been the easiest solution. It was enough to extend it. This was easy to do in a program law. That was not the choice of the minister or the government. Will CREG continue to monitor the price?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-19-54-commissie-ic786x.u74	Yes.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-19-54-commissie-ic786x.u75	I didn't get it right. I still regret the end of the safety net.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-19-54-commissie-ic786x.u76	We now have to deal with a question by Mr de Lamotte, attached to a question by Mr Nollet, which therefore becomes moot, and a question by Mrs Lalieux.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-19-54-commissie-ic786x.u77	I would like to ask a question on the substance. It is entitled "Energy Pact", but it concerns the Energy Transition Fund. It's a mistake to copy and paste. The minister saw this mistake and disposed of the question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-19-54-commissie-ic786x.u78	There is therefore an additional question, bearing No 22646.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-19-54-commissie-ic786x.u79	No, it's about the Energy Transition Fund. It's exactly the same object, but it was written "Energy Pact". You put it somewhere else. This results from copy and paste from a collaborator.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-19-54-commissie-ic786x.u80	If it concerns the same object, and if you agree, we will go to the geological storage of nuclear waste and then to your question No 22646.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-19-54-commissie-ic786x.u81	No, Mr. President. I would like to deal with the Energy Transition Fund now.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-19-54-commissie-ic786x.u82	I'm not following you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-19-54-commissie-ic786x.u83	This is agenda item 15.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-19-54-commissie-ic786x.u84	All right. Mr de Lamotte has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-19-54-commissie-ic786x.u85	Minister, this year you received €15 million from the Energy Transition Fund to support research and development in innovative energy projects. Although 29 projects were submitted, only one of them was finally selected for an amount of €221,827. It appears that only three projects met the admissibility criteria and that the selected project was the only one that met the award criteria. I would therefore like to know what you intend to do with the balance. I have seen in the press that it will remain in the fund and that the amounts released for the next few years will be revised upwards. Minister, are you considering reviewing the admissibility and attribution criteria as well? For if such a scenario were to be repeated every year, I do not see the usefulness of having an envelope that constantly increases without fulfilling the object for which it is supplied.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-19-54-commissie-ic786x.u86	Madam Minister, you have been authorized by the government to spend EUR 15 million this year from the Transition Fund, but only a EUR 221 000 project has been retained. I interviewed you recently and you told me that 8 candidates had been selected by your administration and your firm and that you were going to do everything you could to save them at the government level. This has not been the case, and it is a pity because it was a question of research and development. The second session was therefore not successful. Minister, how do you explain that only one project could benefit from the funding in 2017 when you were talking about eight a few weeks ago? Why has the Council of Ministers not accepted your catch-up solution?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-19-54-commissie-ic786x.u87	Colleagues, I will quickly repeat the history of this case. In the opinion of the Directorate-General for Energy submitted on 29 September 2017, at the end of the first call, it was found that 25 of the 29 project proposals clearly did not meet one or more selection criteria referred to in Article 3, §3 of the Royal Decree of 9 May 2017 laying down the modalities for the use of the transitional fund. Of the four projects submitted that met all the selection criteria, only one project proposal also met the award criteria referred to in Article 3, §4 and 5 of the Royal Decree of 9 May 2017 establishing the fund, namely the project submitted by Elia Asset SA entitled "Understanding the impact of the local distribution of inertia on the operation of the electricity grid". Specifically, with a view to assessing the financial and budgetary criteria, a company called RSM Belgium has been appointed as an external expert, in accordance with the law of 17 June 2016 on public procurement, by my administration. My administration had done the evaluation with the help of this company. A direct negotiated procedure with prior publication was organised, entitled Direct negotiated procedure with prior publication on the provision of services for the analysis and auditing of proposals and projects under the Energy Transition Fund. The specifications had been published on 14 July 2017. The deadline for submission of tenders was 22 August. The mission was therefore entrusted to the company after it was designated on September 14, 2017. They carried out this analysis, which gave a very strict result. It is at that time - which explains what I said to you in plenary - that with my cabinet and the help of Janson Baugniet, who works with me in the framework of this legislature, we have done the exercise of reassessing certain criteria, obviously taking into account all the legal impacts in terms of equal treatment of participants, knowing that in Janson Baugniet you have a doctor in public procurement who knows the subject very well. We have thus been able, in a completely legal and legally defensible manner, to re-fish eight projects for the available budget of 15 million. I have proposed to the government to choose between several scenarios, as we often do: either the hard scenario of DG Energy with its RSM consultant; or the scenario more conciliatory, but equally legally founded, developed by my firm and the firm Janson Baugniet. The government preferred the strictest legal scenario for legal certainty issues. But he took the opportunity to give me the opportunity to recover 5 million - I had only 15 in 2017 - with the possibility to use in 2018 and 2019, in two tranches, the 20 million 2017. I also had the 20 million 2016 projection for years to come. Remember the first $20 million paid. This must always be organised to ensure that the SEC impact is balanced and manageable within the general budget, even if the funds are within a limited scope called the Energy Transition Fund. You must always manage the SEC impact. So we made a projection to use all the 20 million paid between 2016 and 2019 – and even after – by smoothing them and programming them differently. Last week, the 2018 call - the second of its kind - was launched. My DG has resumed contact with all those who clearly met the requirements, since these projects must be within federal jurisdiction. Indeed, one of the reasons why a lot of projects have been refused is that they were based on regional prerogatives. All stakeholders were contacted on an equal footing. This will allow them to submit their proposals by 28 February 2018 at the latest. I accepted the government's offer to provide support in the order of 30 million in 2018 and 2019. The proposals must be introduced now. Their authors have two and a half months to prepare them - whereas for the first appeal they had only one and a half months. Those who did not meet the requirements the first time will therefore be able to reintroduce a better linked file. Elia is more accustomed than other actors to participating in such projects, particularly at European level. Unlike others, she has acquired some expertise in this area. In summary, a third session is organized. I hope that it will allow us to give all the necessary support to future projects.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-19-54-commissie-ic786x.u88	Madam Minister, thank you. I understand the scenario as it will take place soon. Having said that, I did not hear whether the admissibility or award criteria would be changed. Or are we going to maintain the current scheme?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-19-54-commissie-ic786x.u89	Yes, we keep the same pattern. However, in accordance with Article 7 of the Royal Decree of 9 May 2017, the conditions for granting the aid are specified in an agreement concluded by the Directorate-General for Energy with the beneficiary. In addition, they are guided by the legal principles that we have developed with Janson Baugniet. In this way, the Royal Order and the Project Offeror will be able to comply with the legal requirements necessary for the acceptance of the file. It's all set. We are not going to change fundamentally. It is logical that, with a new standard, we have developed implementing case law, which will be used in the context of the call for projects.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-19-54-commissie-ic786x.u90	And this new framework is known to the people who compete.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-19-54-commissie-ic786x.u91	Yes. As I have told you, the DG has resumed contact with those who offered a federal-level project, or in connection with federal jurisdiction, and who could be eligible, to explain to them how all this works, on an equal footing.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-19-54-commissie-ic786x.u92	Minister, I hope that the third session will be the right one. It is really unfortunate to have millions to distribute and not to be able to distribute them. Either the decree is not precise enough, or all those who make subscriptions do it wrong - which amazes me a little. It is indeed necessary to try to improve the dialogue with the administration so that people can get into the rules and deliver eligible projects. This is everyone's goal: to have eligible projects.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-19-54-commissie-ic786x.u93	Mr President, I come to my question, if the minister will give me her answer in the same timing. Madam Minister, today, no decision in principle has yet been taken on the geological storage of Category B and C waste. If, of course, any decision about nuclear energy must be carefully considered, particularly because of its impact on future generations, inaction can also have serious consequences for them. In total, until the decommissioning of nuclear power plants, Belgium is expected to produce up to 10 500 m3 of Category B waste and 4,500 m3 of Category C waste, i.e. those with the highest radioactive activity. Currently, more than 6,200 m3 of first-class waste is stored in surface storage facilities in Dessel, while most of the second-class waste, consisting of spent and non-retired nuclear fuels, is located at the Doel and Tihange plant sites. According to ONDRAF, the latter will be saturated in 2022. Minister, research has now been carried out for forty years by the EURIDICE Economic Interest Group on geological storage in Boom clay, which offers great guarantees of stability. The results would probably be broadly transferable to Ypres clay. What other potential sites would have been identified at this time? The issue of waste reprocessing remains open to date. Are you considering making a decision on this? If a royal decree drafted in the geological storage option was, as you seem to hope, signed before the end of the year, at what cost and by what time frame would we see this concrete solution? What options are being considered with regard to the reversibility of such a decision and the recovery of waste?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-19-54-commissie-ic786x.u94	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the text of my reply immediately begins at the heart of the matter and does not contain any preconditions. You're asking me if other potential sites have currently been identified. In order to avoid any misunderstanding in the rest of my answer, I understand that your question is actually about the host rock, the one that will accommodate Category B and C waste. Research has been carried out in clay that has not been developed since the early 1970s, i.e. before the creation of the ONDRAF. This concern therefore dates back to the creation of nuclear installations in this country, before the creation of the EURIDICE economic interest group by the SCK.CEN in the Hades laboratory, the god of hell, as you know. Since the 1980s and shortly after its creation, ONDRAF has taken over the design and coordination of research and development programmes related to geological storage. This led to the creation in 1995 between ONDRAF and SCK.CEN, first of all the economic interest group PRACLAY, which took its current name, EURIDICE economic interest group in 2000. EURIDICE now manages and operates the underground laboratory. In neighbouring countries, several rocks or geological layers are examined according to the characteristics of the subsoil of each country: salt layers, clays, granites, basalts, shales. Some are present in the Belgian basement such as, for example, different types of clay and shales. I would remind you, however, that in its opinions, notably in the 2011 opinion on the "waste" plan confirmed in the 2015 opinion on the national program, AFCN, our nuclear safety authority, without calling into question the fact that clays could be a possible solution, says that although there is no argument calling into question the containment capacity of Boom clay, AFCN has pronounced itself as follows. First, surface storage of high-level and/or long-lived waste categories B and C, whether pending the development of new technologies or for centuries, cannot be justified. Surface storage is not required. Next, geological evacuation is, in Belgium, the reference solution for safe management of radioactive effects in the medium and long term. With regard to geological deposition, it is not currently possible to make a decision on high formation. The AFCN continues by saying that it is in favour of geological storage, but it is of the opinion that it is not currently possible to make a decision regarding the selection of a category of low-induding high clay formation. The opinion is therefore a little more precise. She concluded by saying that, on the basis of the documents currently available, national policies on the long-term management solution for waste B and C should be limited to a geological storage decision. According to the AFCN, it is premature to advocate storage in a small clay. I refer you to these available notices, among others, on the website of the AFCN and the SPF Economie. For this reason, in our request of 7 November 2016, Kris Peeters and I asked ONDRAF for a proposal for a national policy for radioactive waste B and C. This is important for the future and I will come back to it several times: firstly, it proposes a step-by-step approach, as the AFCN recommends, and secondly, to fix the first step, namely geological storage (the principle) but without indication of the host rock at this stage, which was the initial proposal of ONDRAF in relation to AFCN's requests. The question you are asking is therefore premature. The geology of Belgium is, of course, generally known with varying degrees of precision. But the question of choosing the appropriate geological layer will be taken at a later decision-making stage, after a participatory process. As far as your question of waste reprocessing is concerned, I assume that you are referring to the reprocessing of spent fuels from our nuclear power plants. As I was able to do in previous responses a few months ago, the following points should be noted. Firstly, we have not received any specific application or file in this regard from Synatom, who is in charge of this issue. Secondly, a decision to this effect could be the subject of a new national policy on the subject when there is a request from Synatom. Thirdly, the law states that this must be decided by the government, but also by the parliament, which is not yet the case. Fourthly, the government agreement does not provide for anything specific in this regard, since I must be concerned, according to the government agreement, with waste B and C and not waste A. The options for reprocessing or direct evacuation have been studied on an equal footing in all research since 1998. You note the saturation of spent fuel storage by 2022. As I have already had the opportunity to mention, I would remind you that a project of extension by dry storage has been carried out in recent years by Synatom and Electrabel under the control of AFCN in order to avoid any problems of saturation, while guaranteeing safe storage. I come to your third question. Let me remind you once again that decision-making for this type of long-term storage project, whose construction and operationalization are not planned until 2040 and 2050 and the end of operations around 2100 and 2130, cannot be taken lightly. I would also point out that the principle of this storage system will be built on a logic of passive mechanism and is, in fact, aimed at the closure of this storage, to allow future generations, beyond 2130, since this will be closed in 2100, to have a long-term management of this waste in full safety and security, and to no longer have to worry about it beyond that. Given the importance of this type of decision, as I have already described, Minister Peeters and I have asked for a decision-making process on national policy B and C, which is being carried out in stages, as requested by the AFCN and as already realized and proposed by ONDRAF, and by proposing that the King decide the first step, that is, the principle decision of geological storage. Each of the associated steps and decisions will be made by involving the identified stakeholders. There are obviously environmental impacts and lots of impact studies and public consultations to be carried out at each stage. The establishment of the national policy will take some time between the first stage, the principle of geological storage – of which royal decree soon – and the last, which will be the establishment of the site and which will then begin the process of authorization provided for by the Act of 15 April 1994, the one establishing the AFCN, and in the Royal Decree of 20 July 2001, namely the Royal Decree "General Regulation for the Protection of the Population, Workers and the Environment from Ionizing Radiation" (GRPRI). Issues related to reversibility and recoverability are important. They were identified as such by the citizens consulted at the Citizens' Conference organized by the King Baudouin Foundation in 2010-2011. These issues are identified and their modalities will be part of a later decision in the step-by-step process. This is provided for today in the ONDRAF Act of 8 August 1980. You therefore anticipate several questions whose answers will not arrive until later, in subsequent decisions. Finally, with regard to the follow-up of the case, as I have been able to tell you on several occasions, the supervisory offices of Kris Peeters and I have had numerous technical meetings with ONDRAF, including the last very recently. I myself took part in a technical meeting no later than last Thursday. I received a clear statement of the situation that confirms the good progress in the direction requested in November 2016. It is a step-by-step process and the first step is limited to the principle of geological storage, with no indication of host rocks at this stage. From this meeting, I have several important elements: 1) The interactions between ONDRAF, AFCN and policy makers are positive and bear fruit. 2) ONDRAF has confirmed that I have had several interactions with AFCN and my administration. 3) ONDRAF has indicated to me that the proposal under consideration will also allow them to work within an appropriate framework, since it will allow them to identify the continuation of the process, i.e. the second stage and the next and so on until the last, and thus to move forward in parallel with the technical need "research, development, participation" within the framework of an integrated project. 4) ONDRAF informed me that it was finalizing the final formalities so that it could submit a proposal for a national policy to their board of directors at their next meeting. In particular, the ONDRAF still has to submit the dossier to the SEA opinion committee before going to the Management Board. Depending on the decision to be taken there, both that of the SEA opinion committee and that of the board of directors, which I cannot prejudge at this stage, ONDRAF will propose and forward to its tutelage, Minister Kris Peeters and myself, a proposal for a national policy that will follow the path of a royal decree deliberated in the Council of Ministers, in accordance with the procedure laid down by law. But it won't be until the end of this year. To answer Mr. Nollet's question, they told me – and, as you will know, I did not hesitate to ask them the question – that subsurface storage, as often proposed, perpetually renewed every one hundred to three hundred years, was not adequate because it amounts to making perpetual storage – you have heard what AFCN thought of it, that is, no good – and, on the other hand, does not constitute a definitive solution and, as a result, is ethically impossible or very difficult to accept. Finally, I was able to appreciate the positive and constructive momentum led by the new Directors General and President of ONDRAF.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-19-54-commissie-ic786x.u95	Thank you, Minister. Mr de Lamotte, you wanted a concise answer. I think your wish is fulfilled.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-19-54-commissie-ic786x.u96	Mr President, 'concise', if I may, from a new application of the Rules of Procedure, you will have problems. Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. I won't fail to read it with a rested head before I reply. I take note of this today and I am running quickly in the Committee on Commercial Law.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-19-54-commissie-ic786x.u97	Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, thank you. We have exhausted, with the members present, this set of questions and answers. I shall therefore adjourn the sitting.
