ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic612x.u1	Mr President, Minister, the price observatory figures show that since 2010, the price of glasses and lentils has increased by 10% in Belgium, while it has decreased in most other neighbouring countries. The sector has a large number of independents, which may explain this increase. Minister, you have announced the establishment of a code of conduct for the opticians sector in order to frame this sector. This discussion, which involves the Association professionnelle des optométristes et optometristes de Belgique, aims to define the essential criteria on the information to be transmitted to consumers, but it will also reflect discussions on the value and price of glasses. This code will be signed by all stakeholders in the sector and its proper application will be monitored by the Economic Inspectorate. Minister, what benefits could the consumer derive from the introduction of this code of conduct? Will it lead to a reduction in the price? Despite the soft law aspect of a code of good conduct, to what penalties does an optician who fails to comply with this code face? When will the code come into force? I think that if the code of conduct is to come into being, it should take into account the unfair competition practices of certain opticians and certain third parties.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic612x.u2	Mr President, Mrs Jadin, it should be stressed that this code on the sale of glasses and glasses, signed on 27 December, is binding but not mandatory and that it is up to each optician to adhere to it freely and voluntarily. A person who commits himself to it, but does not apply it, then commits an unfair commercial practice and is therefore subject to a criminal sanction of level 2 provided for in the Code of Economic Law. The first purpose of the code is the good information of the consumer allowing him to compare prices more easily as well as the offers and prices offered by the opticians. It makes sense to me that, thanks to greater transparency, the code will lead to greater competition, which is clearly the ultimate goal. Transparency creates greater competition and in practice this means reasonable or lower prices. The entry into force of the Code was immediate. All opticians are concerned and I remind them of my invitation to join. As of 6 March, 38 stores had adhered to the Code of Conduct. It is up to the professional federation which has drawn up the code of conduct to promote it to professionals. I sent him a letter on this subject. For the rest, like you, I hope that greater transparency will stop the unfair situation vis-à-vis dishonest opticians and will benefit not only professional opticians, but also consumers.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic612x.u3	Thank you, Minister. As Mr Calomne is not present, his question becomes moot.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic612x.u4	Mr President, Minister, the European Union Office for Intellectual Property (EUIPO) has submitted a report on the impact of counterfeit products and piracy. The figures at European level are calling for a loss of more than EUR 83 billion for the 28 Member States, including both direct and indirect effects. The impact is also significant as it results in the loss of nearly 500,000 jobs in the sectors concerned. Belgium is also a victim of counterfeit objects and piracy, since no less than EUR 1.9 billion are lost each year, resulting in a direct loss of more than 8,800 jobs. The sectors most affected are sportswear, cosmetics and medicines. In addition to being a significant loss for Belgium, counterfeit products are also dangerous for the consumer. That is why it is essential to put an end to it or, at least, to fight effectively against the circulation of counterfeit products. Minister, the FPS Economy and Customs have closed nearly 3,000 sites selling counterfeit products. To what extent can these services ensure that sites will not be recreated under another domain name? What measures can be taken to permanently prevent sellers from selling their counterfeit goods on the Internet? What is the budget allocated to services tracking vendors and counterfeit sites? In your eyes, is it enough?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic612x.u5	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is impossible to prevent the emergence of new domain names or websites in the field of the sale of counterfeits. However, the Economic Inspectorate and Customs may close a website in the event of an infringement found. This is done very quickly in practice. In this way, counterfeit sellers are discouraged from using domain names ".be" or ".eu" and confidence in these extensions is increased. Legally, the European e-commerce Directive does not allow for prior agreement or authorisation of online stores. In practice, the registration of a domain name is almost immediately active. As of November 2016, there were 1,519 extensions of different domain names worldwide. In addition, counterfeit sellers regularly change the false identities used as well as the registration agency. With regard to your second question, it is only when the necessary pressure is exerted by all countries against online counterfeit sellers that it is effective. International collaboration is therefore essential here. At the international level, different strategies are proposed alongside the rapid closure of sales sites. The removal of the means of payment used is also a possible way forward. This means contacting for example Mastercard or Visa to prevent counterfeit sellers from still receiving credit card payments. This track is promising, but here too, counterfeit sellers can quickly change payment and identity providers. As far as your third question is concerned, as far as the Economy FPS is concerned, no specific budget is allocated to the service in charge of combating the sale of counterfeits. The Directorate-General for Counterfeiting and Internet Surveillance, which is under the responsibility of the Directorate-General for Economic Inspection, consists of fourteen inspectors, eight of whom are almost exclusively responsible for the fight against counterfeiting. The resources allocated to them are integrated into the overall resources of the SPF Economy.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic612x.u6	Minister, thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic612x.u7	I would also like to point out that a number of questions are transformed into written questions and others are postponed. Questions Nos 15830 and 15830. Van den Bergh, Nos 16078 and 16536 by Mrs Cassart, No 16193 by Mr Degroote, and Questions Nos 16933, 16934, 16935, 16961, 16967 and 16968 by Mrs Winckel are transformed into written questions. Questions No 16009 by Mrs Fonck, Nos 16083, 16516 and 16520 by Mr Calomne, No 16251 by Mrs Van Hoof and No 16287 by Mrs Van Cauter are postponed. We will try to deal with the issues if possible up to point 11, depending on the members present.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic612x.u8	Mr Minister, this question was made a while ago. She's about Ergo. At the end of last year, we learned that the insurance company Ergo stopped selling life insurance. It's not the only society that does that, it's a trend in the sector. In the case of Ergo, 200 out of 350 jobs would be lost. There are also 800 independent agents selling Ergo's life insurance policies. The impact of the decision on the agents is not yet fully clear, especially in the area of committee liability. Ergo agents have a five-year liability commission. This means that when the customer quits within five years, the agent has to return a proportional part of the raised commission to the company. The purpose of this is to encourage agents to maintain their customer relations, which is, of course, a logical objective. However, if the company grants the agent an extraction fee, the Ergopolises will no longer proceed via that agent. It is therefore difficult to say that they would then still be responsible for leaving a customer, because they no longer manage the contract. Moreover, Ergo announced the restructuring itself. In Belgium, however, Ergoagents have a contract with Ergo Partners, which is itself a broker of Ergo. If Ergo Partners applies for bankruptcy, which is not impossible, it is also not clear who will pay the invoice. I would therefore like to hear from you whether the five-year liability committee will continue to apply after the principal has given notice. What happens to the invoice and all charges, if the agent Ergo Partners is declared bankrupt?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic612x.u9	Ergo is an insurance company in restructuring. Since I invite all companies undergoing major restructuring to a maintenance, I also did so for Ergo. On 11 January I received Ergo's CEO in my cabinet, explaining the planned restructuring. He confirmed that Ergo will not offer new life insurance activities to its clients, but intends to maintain the organisation for as long as necessary to provide existing clients with the necessary services. According to Ergo, a scenario in which the group would bankrupt the Belgian subsidiary does not exist. Moreover, the company is not loss-making in Belgium. The latest annual reports show that a profit of EUR 66 million was still recorded in 2015. Ergo's CEO has confirmed to me that several solutions are being sought for the agents, together with the partners who use the same network. As far as the committee's liability is concerned, I can only confirm that it is a conventional arrangement between insurance undertakings and their agents. If a dispute arises in this respect, it is for the court to take a decision on the matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic612x.u10	Thank you for your answer, Minister. After drawing up my question, I received positive signals from the Ergo Group. I think there is a constructive consultation going on there. At the moment, therefore, I have no reason to doubt the conclusion of a reasonable agreement between the various parties. However, we, as legislators, need to consider the specific clause of committee liability. You are right to say that the courts have jurisdiction in the event of a conflict. Of course it is. However, we have a possible general problem here. Not only Ergo applies that rule. It is a widespread phenomenon in that particular sector. However, it is difficult to expect an agent to continue to bear responsibility for a contract which he is no longer legally entitled to treat and in which he does not even have access to it, whether premiums are paid or not, nor has access to correspondence between the company and the customer. He can therefore also be very difficult to be liable for the further conduct of the contract. So we need to look at how we solve this in practice, so that we do not have to go to court every time in individual cases to avoid the problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic612x.u11	Questions Nos 16752, 16908 and 16972 by Mr Werner Janssen are converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic612x.u12	Mr.President, Minister, in 2016, Israeli settlements expanded very sharply. Construction of new settlement units increased by 40 per cent in the first six months of the year. On 23 December 2016, the UN Security Council adopted a landmark resolution on the illegality of Israeli settlement policy. Resolution 2334 calls for an immediate freeze on Israeli colonization and calls on the Member States of the United Nations to pursue a clear policy of differentiation. The House also adopted a resolution on 24 November 2016 calling on the federal government to deepen this policy of differentiation. The implementation of interpretative communication measures relating to the indication of the origin of goods originating from the territories occupied by Israel since June 1967 is still not effective, since November 2015. Within the European Union, more and more voices are calling for a deeper policy of differentiation. Moreover, in a question on this subject in August 2016, you said: "I am also very sensitive to this issue. I will therefore refer this 2014 European Recommendation to operators and will inform the Economic Inspectorate to ensure that certain abuses are stopped." Minister, have you done this? If so, have you received any responses from the operators contacted? In order to respond more specifically to the House's recommendation in the text and to the new UN resolution, what concrete measures do you intend to implement from now on to ensure this policy of differentiation? Finally, I would like to add a new question because since my question was tabled, I have been informed that a product has been clearly identified as having mislabelled. It is a wine sold in the Delhaize supermarkets, the wine of the Golan Heights Winery. This wine is not properly labelled. The production and bottling of this wine is carried out in Katzrin in the occupied Golan. However, the word indicated is "Wine of Israel". Delhaize Wine World has now separated the bottles, placing them in a "Golan Heights" category, but not all consumers are supposed to know that the Golan Heights are occupied territory and that the Israeli farmer is therefore guilty of a violation of international law. In all logical terms, this product should be labelled ''Product of the Golan, Israeli Colony'' or in a way that allows the consumer to make an informed choice. I wanted to draw your attention to this and know what you could do in this context.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic612x.u13	Mr President, dear colleague, I am very familiar with your sensitivity on this subject. I'm also sensitive to it. The implementation of UN Resolution 2334 and that of the House of Representatives must be discussed within the government, on the initiative of the Minister of Foreign Affairs. As for the implementation of the recommendation on the labelling of products from the occupied territories, it is the responsibility of the undertakings which are responsible for the labelling of the products they offer for sale, and not directly of my competence. But since I am, like you, very sensitive to the question, I have already taken some initiatives which I hope will produce rapid results. My administration takes this into account in its tasks when monitoring the legality of these matters.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic612x.u14	Mr Minister, I will repeat Mr de Lamotte's words: this is a little bit of a payback answer. I thank you, however. I would have liked to know more about these concrete measures to ensure the clear application of differentiation. I draw your attention to the concrete case that I have just submitted to you about this wine sold by Delhaize. I will come back to you to find out what has been done by your administration to address this issue. The consumer is incorrectly informed in a context where there is a serious breach of international law.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic612x.u15	Questions Nos 16526 and 16794 by Mr Johan Klaps are transformed into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic612x.u16	Minister, the solder period may be over, but it is still a very important item. During the solder period a number of foreign sales techniques are used. For example, Media Markt customers noted that certain so-called discounted items were more expensive than before the solders. Test-Achats rightly calls this misleading, but those responsible for Media Markt themselves say that they follow all the rules. According to them, work is carried out within the framework of the complex solder law. More even, Media Markt claims that always the lowest price is offered and that according to them this ensures exceptional cases. I've done a little digging out the solder's laws, and apparently she's interpretable at her own discretion. It is of course not the last price that counts to give up discount, otherwise every trader increases his prices just for the solders. In the past, the law defined a reference price on which a discount could be given. The reference price of the product was the lowest price applied during the month preceding the start of the solders. Today there is no longer a clearly defined reference price. As a result, each store may determine that reference price itself. So what did Media Markt do? The company calculated the solder price as a price lower than the highest price of that product in the last three months. Similar practices were also reported in chains such as Decathlon, Hema, Makro, Vanden Borre, Krëfel and Torfs. This method shows that the solder legislation is very complex, opaque and difficult to control. How can it be verified, without a clearly defined reference price, whether a discount has actually been applied, or how can it be verified that the trader has not increased his prices a few days before the announcement of a false promotion? Each situation seems to need to be evaluated on a case-by-case basis to determine whether the promotion is deceptive or not, which is tiring for the inspectors of the FPS Economy. A second point I would like to make is that a number of customers have also indicated that there is a form of unacceptable practice. I can even talk about cheating, which may be a very nasty word. It turned out that Media Markt sold second-hand machines as new. For example, someone bought a laptop, which contained hundreds of private photos of a previous owner of the device. That case has been on the news. The person concerned was right to be in shock. That is why I have the following questions for you. Firstly, are you prepared to simplify the complex soldering legislation with the same rules for all shops? In this way the consumer can make a clear and fair price comparison. Such simplification is easier for the shops. After all, there is no longer any possibility of discussion. It is also easier to control the inspectors. Secondly, why is the reference price not simply the lowest price, and not the last price, of a particular product within a period of the last three months before the solders? I ask this deliberately because there were comments about the period before that. The Court of Justice of the European Union ruled that the original measure was too strict. That is why I propose to you that we keep things simple, that we use a period of the last three months instead of one month earlier. Thirdly, how does the Economic Inspectorate take action against the sale of second-hand products as newly posted? What's she doing with that? Fourthly, how many complaints did the Economic Inspectorate receive during the solder period? What is the result of the investigation into these complaints? I've already read part of the answer in the paper. Nevertheless, I would like to hear your answer today.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic612x.u17	Mrs Detiège, I have just said that I will look, together with my colleague, Willy Borsus, over the next few weeks and months at what initiatives we can take in the field of presolders, solders and fences. As far as your question on the solders is concerned, I would like to remind you of the judgment of the European Court of Justice of 10 July 2014. I referred to this judgment earlier. As a result of this judgment, we had to lift the specific Belgian provisions on the announcement of price reductions. These provisions had been found to be contrary to European law. Trade practices can only be addressed on the basis of legislation on unfair commercial practices. This means that the inspection services must assess on a case-by-case basis on the basis of the general rules on unfair commercial practices. In the present case, the principle that announced price reductions should not be misleading is applicable. As a result, no legal rules on a reference price can be imposed within the solder period, nor can they be imposed on notices of price reductions at other times. To date, nine complaints have been received and investigated. In eight cases, this investigation is still ongoing. In one case, the complaint was found unfounded following an investigation. With regard to the practice of used goods sold as new, when the Economic Inspectorate establishes that practice, this will give rise to the preparation of a report for misleading practices. The penalties for such practices may amount to EUR 80 000. For the rest, I believe, Mrs Detiège, that you still need to be patient and waiting for our proposals to amend the legislation.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic612x.u18	Mr President, I am pleased that there can be effective pvvprs when it comes to real fraud. Selling things like new that aren't, is really unacceptable. I am therefore pleased that serious amounts are linked to this, so that it has a deterrent effect. Perhaps we should remind ourselves once again of a number of companies what the sanctions might be in this regard. I am also pleased that you want to take initiatives with Minister Borsus because these problems of deception do arise regularly. For the consumer, it is always very unpleasant when he finds that an article was cheaper one month earlier than today. Such a feeling when shopping is rightly unacceptable. I have read the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union very well. I understand, however, that if something is found too harsh, then the Court will whistle back. That's what it did. Today, however, it is very chaotic. Anyone can do it and interpret it as they please. That is why I ask you to make the effort to take a good initiative and I am already making a proposal in this respect to see what can be done to resolve it. That is why I proposed not to do it in one month, because then it would be too strict, but during a wider period, for example. My proposal on this was three months. I see you nodding, so I think you're taking it. It's still gonna be prosecuted.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic612x.u19	Mr President, Mr Deputy Prime Minister, everything calls for a responsible attitude towards consumption: to reduce the quantity of waste, to reduce its ecological footprint, to reduce the amount of its purchases to live more comfortably. However, when it comes to food consumption, if it is a category that is not encouraged, it is indeed single and isolated. The Office of the Plan announced yesterday that we will be 13 million inhabitants in 2060 in Belgium, half of them isolated. However, they pay a high price for their food when they try to meet the objectives I have just described, by buying portions adapted to their situation. Small packs are much more expensive when one observes their price per kilo than the packs for a family. Sometimes the difference between a pack for a person and a double pack is even one hundred! So there is reason to discourage isolated people, who now account for 20% of our citizens, from engaging in responsible acquisitions and avoiding food waste. The head of Comeos replied to my colleague Rob Beenders, MP sp.a in the Flemish Parliament, who, after conducting a survey on this subject, called on him to discuss it, that trade had made great efforts to adapt to the changing composition of households, in order to facilitate the lives of customers and avoid food waste. He also opposed price freedom as a rule for refusing any intervention and negotiation of agreements in order to keep prices low in favour of individuals alone. One of the opposing arguments is that the fixed costs of packaging, labelling, packaging or handling inevitably weigh more in the price of an individual serving than in the price of a family package. Deputy Prime Minister, in order to clarify the situation, can you inform us about the reality of the fixed costs of small containers in relation to those related to family containers? Similarly, how can you act to change water and energy bills so that they are no longer as unequal in their share of income as households? In some cases, the cost of the material consumed is lower than the cost of subscriptions and taxes. A perfect equality in this area is undoubtedly impossible, but in the absence of equality, how do you intend to act to restore greater equity among all Belgians on this issue? I recall here that 50% of the population in Belgium will be isolated in 2060.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic612x.u20	Mr President, Mr Flahaux, although this is not obvious, I will try to provide you with information in order to answer your question. The prices of small packs, often per kilo or litre, are indeed higher than the prices of packs for a family. The price paid by the final customer is the result of several factors: the manufacturer's price, the price of intermediaries in the distribution chain and the retailer's commercial margin. It is also important to stress that the price of raw materials is not the only factor involved in setting prices. Other costs such as wages, energy, packaging and transport also play an important role. Analysis of the cost structure of the final product of the food industry already shows that the share of agricultural products is between 4% for oils and fats and 27.3% for the meat industry. For processed food products, such as bread and sugar and chocolate products, as well as alcoholic and non-alcoholic beverages, the share of agricultural products is lower than for food products with a less complex processing process. In the last link before the sale to the consumer, retail trade, the part of the basic product further decreases. As far as water bills are concerned, price policy has been a competence transferred to the Regions since 1 July 2014, following the sixth reform of the State. The electricity and gas sector is liberalised. This is a sector where invoices have several components that fall within the jurisdiction of the different entities. The price of the supply of electricity and gas shall be fixed by the suppliers. The federal level is responsible for VAT and the cost of transport. As you know, the Regions are responsible for distribution costs and regional taxes. The functioning of this liberalized market is subject to the supervision of federal and regional regulators. The federal regulator has among its duties to approve the transportation tariff. Regional regulators are responsible for approving distribution network tariffs. For most of the invoice, therefore, I do not have any leverage to act on the issue that you have raised. However, I would like to point out to you that the federal contribution that the government raises on electricity and gas is based only on household consumption. This also applies to the overload that is paid for renewable energy produced in the North Sea.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic612x.u21	Minister, I realize that this is an extremely broad area that I have dared to address today. I have no doubt that you will pay attention to the fact that this represents an increasingly important part of our population. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic612x.u22	Mr Deputy Prime Minister, as we know, the European economy, and even more so Belgium, is largely based on the tertiary sector. Recognizing that stimulating trade is conducive to growth and productivity, the European Commission has issued several directives in 2006 in order to lower internal barriers to services in the Union. According to a study carried out between 2014 and 2016, it appears that the states that have opened their markets have seen employment and prices improve. The World Bank also estimates that this opening would increase productivity by 5 per cent. However, it can be seen that nine out of ten jobs in services remain partitioned in their countries of origin. It also appears that ten years after the adoption of these directives, only one third of the measures provided for have on average been transposed into national law by the Member States. In order to further facilitate the procedures for service contractors to operate in another State, the Commission proposed at the beginning of January a series of new measures to be approved by the Council and the European Parliament, including a centralised system for the transmission of information between States, as well as an electronic service card, considerably reducing the paperwork to be processed by both the administration and the user. I therefore wanted to ask you, Mr Deputy Prime Minister, what is the status of Belgium with regard to the transposition of all the measures provided for in the Services Directive of 2006? What are the obstacles and problems encountered in the effective and balanced implementation of these measures? Furthermore, how does the current government welcome the new proposals of the European Commission in this area? Thank you in advance for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic612x.u23	Mr President, Mrs de Coster-Bauchau, I shall be brief. I can give you more information about the Services Directive, which was fully transposed on 10 November 2011, but I think the most important thing to know about you – I hope so! – is that the Services package presented by the European Commission on 10 January has to be thoroughly examined. For my part, I am in favour of the introduction of an electronic service card on the condition that it is a genuine administrative simplification and, above all, that it does not create additional burdens for both administrations and businesses.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic612x.u24	Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, thank you for that clarification. It seems to me important that administrative procedures should not be burdened any more. I hope that this map will make services even more effective for our country's tertiary sector.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic612x.u25	Mr Minister, there are still questions about competence in relation to my question. I sent that question to you and to Mr Borsus. I heard that I had to ask Mr Borsus and I will now have asked them twice. What's the problem? The Booking.com website provides a hotel room for one third of all bookings, yet Belgian hotels are not satisfied with booking platforms such as Booking.com and Expedia. After all, hotels have to pay a substantial commission to them. However, hotels may not apply a lower rate than the rates indicated on the booking sites. The Belgian hoteliers claim that they are held hostage by online providers and no longer master the prices. In France and Germany, hotels may offer lower prices than Booking.com. Mr Minister, are you aware of the complaints about our hoteliers? Will you take measures? Which one?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic612x.u26	Mr Janssens, I apologize for sending you from the locker to the wall. I hope that my answer will now satisfy you. That will, of course, be apparent only after my reply. Firstly, I can confirm that I am aware of the complaints of the hoteliers about the price clauses used by Booking.com. In fact, the Belgian Catering Federations have written to me about this. I'm following this file very closely. Secondly, I can tell you that the Belgian Competition Authority, in close cooperation with the European Commission and the other national competition authorities, is actively following up this dossier. They made certain commitments last year with Booking.com. As a result, Booking.com has adapted its commercial practices on the Belgian market. The relevant European competition authorities are currently carrying out market monitoring together with the European Commission. The purpose of this monitoring is to examine whether the agreed commitments have a positive impact on the market. A report on this monitoring will be published at the end of March. The competition authorities concerned have agreed not to open an investigation into Booking.com pending this report. Price parity clauses are an example of practices that demonstrate the need for better B2B protection in Belgium. In consultation with colleague Willy Borsus, I am working on a general legal framework for this. Among other things, the legality of price parity clauses can be taken into account in this context. I hope that you have received an answer. I trust you will re-examine the subject when the report arrives. I will be happy to comment on that. Even more important is the further development of the B2B scheme.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic612x.u27	The matter has become clearer to me but at the same time more unclear. I'm declaring myself. Your colleague, Minister Borsus, said he would consult with the sector first. Only if nothing comes out of those conversations will there be a legal initiative. If I understand you correctly, you're saying you're thinking a step further. This shows that the powers are not yet exactly divided. However, I am satisfied with your answer and will continue to follow the subject closely.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-08-54-commissie-ic612x.u28	Minister, I think we can close our business for this morning. Thank you.
