ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-14-54-commissie-ic766x.u1	Minister, the management of the fipronil crisis by AFSCA has been positive in many respects (discovery of the substance through the self-control system, use of the principle of horizontal controls throughout the chain,...). However, a potential for improvement has been updated: deadlines for the removal of contaminated processed products and risk analysis of operators in the chain as part of their self-monitoring and traceability system, communication to citizens, collaboration with regional authorities, and the lateness of horizontal controls on the chain, i.e. the screening of companies. Mr Minister, with three months of hindsight, the fipronil crisis points out to us that the food security crises and incidents that have occurred in recent years concern the entire agri-food sector, while at the same time there are many echoes of very restrictive measures for small producers who are not at the source of these contaminations. This double finding suggests that the measures imposed on small producers are not partly proportionate, while the control of the agri-food sector could be more effective. The findings and potential for improvement cited warrant an in-depth analysis of how to improve the functioning of the AFSCA. This analysis must be carried out as part of an objective study and audit. As such, Minister Kris Peeters – in plenary session and through the press – supported my proposal. However, AFSCA's claim to have "at any time, on the basis of the information available to it in June and July, taken the necessary measures to ensure public health" indicates a certain reluctance to introspection. The objective criterion therefore requires that the assessment carried out following the crisis should not be limited to self-assessment by the AFSCA, but should be carried out by an autonomous body and be the subject of parliamentary debate. For what reason, minister? Because three shortcomings were specifically noted. As a reminder, AFSCA discovered that the eggs had been infected with fipronil on June 6, but did not go to outside companies to investigate. Indeed, it was necessary to wait for another alert to be launched on 6 July by a company participating in a research programme. We didn't take any samples. Similarly, no horizontal screening has been undertaken. Consequently, doubts remain as to the procedures. It is obvious that the cost is high for the consumer. Next, it is important to improve the relationships and communications between your firm, AFSCA and regional authorities. Finally, it took several months – until October, to be precise – for the products in the shelves to be removed from the sale. The deadlines are obviously too long. Mr Minister, in view of these shortcomings and the opportunities for improvement, including for small producers, and in view of the information set out in my speech, are you going to take with the PSACA the measure of the problem and recommend that an independent audit be carried out, I propose, under parliamentary control? This audit would allow for further analysis of the regulations, procedures and processes within the AFSCA with a view to identifying malfunctions and, above all, the potential for improvement.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-14-54-commissie-ic766x.u2	You have to do a bit of politics, don't you, Mr. de Lamotte? So we're going to do a little bit of it, while basically we're not very far away. Indeed, I believe that crisis management needs to be evaluated. I'm talking about an evaluation report. I have indicated that we can answer in this context in Parliament. You're talking about an audit. I note from your inquiry that the AFSCA's management of the fipronil crisis has been positive in many respects, and I thank you for stressing this. You have, in the sometimes difficult debates we have had about the crisis, very quickly stressed this aspect as well. Since then, Belgium, which has detected fraud, has formulated a series of avenues for improvement at European level. The Ministerial Conference of 26 September, moreover, took on a series of proposals put forward by Belgium. I am thinking in particular of clarifying the exchange of information, the creation of a liaison officer acting as a contact between Member States on food safety crises or incidents, and the strengthening of the role of EFSA, the European Food Safety Authority in the event of a crisis. You also refer to the AFSCA's attitude towards small producers. We talked a lot about it today. As I indicated in the policy note, and I have already had the opportunity to mention it on several occasions in the parliamentary questions that have been addressed to me on this subject, the Agency must continue to provide appropriate support to small producers. We will continue to encourage this aspect, as we can conclude from our review of our objectives presented today. Is an external audit of the Agency necessary? You refer to the imperative nature of an in-depth analysis in the form of an objective evaluation, carried out by an autonomous body of the Agency. Your request gives the impression that the latter would rarely be subject to external evaluations. But that is not true. The Agency is subject to numerous audits carried out by external bodies with a view to improving the quality of its work. There are four types. First of all, these are external audits carried out within the framework of the quality management system by Vinçotte, certified ISO 9001, and the accreditation body BELAC, ISO 17020 and 17025. In 2016 and 2017, there were six audits of this kind – the first two by Vinçotte and the other four by BELAC. The external audits carried out by the Directorate-General for Health of the European Commission, which regularly monitors Belgium's compliance with existing European standards, are then carried out. In this context, three audits and three study visits were organised in 2016 on the national system for the audit of food additives and the control of imports. I must also mention those of the Court of Auditors for the period 2015-2017. Finally, every year, a business reviewer reviews the accounts of the AFSCA. In short, you see that external audits exist. Thus, in 2016 alone, there were twelve of them. I do not want to give the impression that the Agency would be closed to any external analysis. So there were twelve different audits last year. It is a question of measuring the crisis. I assure you that, with regard to this process and this assessment report as planned and which may be the subject of parliamentary questions, Deputy Prime Minister Kris Peeters fully agrees with me. Therefore, I think that, in substance, we are not very far away. I understand your political intention. In any case, I believe that the evaluation report will help us adapt the system in order to make AFSCA more effective. Basically, therefore, our objectives are identical.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-14-54-commissie-ic766x.u3	Minister, I take note of your answer. My goal is for an outside eye to examine the functioning of the AFSCA. I am aware of audit reports that are produced on other specific topics. That said, Minister, the reviewer is not in charge of an audit; he audits the accounts. The respective roles should not be confused. For my part, I persist and sign: I wish for an external audit that will restore the image of the AFSCA, of which you yourself acknowledge that it is sometimes misperceived. In addition, I would like this audit to be accompanied by a parliamentary follow-up committee. Let us be clear: the Agency also depends on the House. In this sense, I bring a motion of recommendation to the Chair, which I submit to the usual procedure, for follow-up on the matter. I keep my remarks and thank you for listening.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-14-54-commissie-ic766x.u4	In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. A motion for recommendation was tabled by Mr. Michel de Lamotte and reads as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the inquiry of Mr Michel de Lamotte and the response of the Minister of Middle Classes, Self-employed, SMEs, Agriculture, and Social Integration, calls on the government to commission an independent study to improve the effectiveness (proportionality of measures to small producers and agro-industry) and efficiency (the ability to avoid and manage agri-food health crises) of the AFSCA. This study should have, at a minimum, the following objectives: - study and further differentiate the regulations and procedures of the AFSCA sector by making them more flexible for small producers and adapting them where strictly necessary for agro-industry; - assess and adapt the crisis management procedures of the AFSCA in order to avoid, in future crises, the lateness of the horizontal controls of the chain1, the delays in collaboration with the regional authorities, the delays in analysing the risk of operators in the chain as part of their self-control and the traceability system, and the delays in removing the contaminated processed products; - to assess the resources allocated to the AFSCA and the impact of the 18% reduction in the Agency's budget; to assess the distribution of resources within the Agency, among its various missions; - assess the Agency's communication and study the involvement of citizens in crisis management; - assess the mechanism of self-control in the light of experience that it is not hermetic to certain substances at least dangerous such as the now well-known fipronil and identify additional factors to be taken into account in order to guide the analyses carried out as the probability of fraud. The follow-up to this study will be carried out by a committee composed of parliamentarians and the conclusions of these will be discussed in the House. 1AFSCA already knew on 6/06/2017 that fipronil contamination was due to feeding or treatment against hens' lice. It also knew that these products and services were provided by external companies which most likely supplied other holdings in Belgium which would therefore also be contaminated. However, AFSCA did not sample other Belgian poultry farms as soon as these two tracks were identified on 6/06. Instead, the second farm to have been controlled was XHH, a month later, 6/07, also incidentally since it was part of a red lice research program. A month was therefore lost to identify the scale of the crisis. The first horizontal screening of poultry holdings took place between 31 July and 7 August." A motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr Michel de Lamotte and reads as follows: "The Chamber, heard the interplay of Mr Michel de Lamotte and the reply of the Minister for Small and Medium-sized Enterprises, Self-employed, SMEs, Agriculture and Social Integration, asks the government order an independent study to improve the effectiveness (the proportionality of the measures in relation to small producers and the agro-industry) and efficiency (the possibility of preventing sanitary crises in the agricultural and food industries) of the BFSA. That study shall have at least the following objectives: - the relevant regulations and procedures of the BFSA should be examined and, on the one hand, made more flexible for small producers and, on the other hand, adapted and adapted to the agro-industry where strictly necessary; - the crisis management procedures of the BFSA should be evaluated and adapted in order to avoid future delays in the horizontal controls of the production chain1, cooperation with the regional authorities, risk analysis by producers in the context of self-checks and the traceability system and removal from the market of the contaminated processed products; - evaluation of the resources allocated to the BFSA and the impact of the reduction in the Agency's budget by 18%; - the communication of the BFSA should be evaluated and the extent to which the population can be involved in crisis management should be assessed; - the self-control mechanism should be evaluated in the light of past experience, which has shown that certain at least dangerous substances such as the now well-known fipronil can slip through the meshes of the network; also the additional factors to be taken into account when conducting the analyses should be identified, such as the likelihood of fraud. A committee of parliamentarians will follow up this study and its conclusions will be submitted to the Chamber for discussion. 1 The BFSA already knew on 06/06/2017 that the fipronil contamination was due to chicken feed or the blood lice treatment. It also knew that those products and services were supplied by external companies, which were more likely to supply other companies in Belgium and were therefore likely to be contaminated. However, the BFSA did not take samples from other poultry farms after those two traces of thought were identified on 6 June. The control of the second company, XHH, one month later on 6 July, was also a coincidence, as it was part of a research programme on blood lice. In this way, a month was lost in assessing the scale of the crisis. The first horizontal screening of poultry holdings took place only between 31 July and 7 August." A simple motion was tabled by Ms. Ine Somers, Ms. Els Van Hoof, Ms. Valerie Van Peel and Mr. Dirk Janssens and Damien Thiéry. A simple motion was tabled by the ladies Ine Somers, Els Van Hoof and Valerie Van Peel and Mr Dirk Janssens and Damien Thiéry. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed. The motions will be voted on later. The meeting's over.
