ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-14-54-commissie-ic616x.u1	Minister, the speakers for the first six questions are absent. However, it is important to be punctual. The same is true in the communist world. I suggest we start with item 7 on the agenda. I call Mr Spoormen.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-14-54-commissie-ic616x.u2	Minister, last year the government decided to increase the minimum pensions for pensioners who have had a full career as an employed or self-employed person by 0,7%. We have fully supported this measure, which means that work is better rewarded. The increase of 0,7 % started in January 2017. However, for those who were also entitled to that increase in 2016, a one-off catch-up premium was paid. The communication about the catch-up premium seems to have gone wrong. Many pensioners did not know it was a one-off contribution and thought it was an effective increase in their pension. This created a lot of unnecessary concern when pensioners received the letter containing the pension amount for January 2017, which was lower, which made it seem as if they would receive less pension this year. Indeed, they made the comparison with December 2016 without taking into account the catch-up premium. We were contacted by many pensioners who mistakenly believed that their pension amount had fallen rather than increased. Psychologically, retirement is a very sensitive issue for people. It is therefore important that this be corrected so that the pensioners affected do not feel disadvantaged. Moreover, it should be clearly communicated that the government is effectively raising the lowest pensions. Are you planning an information campaign to inform the affected pensioners correctly? Are measures being taken for the future to avoid unclear communication?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-14-54-commissie-ic616x.u3	I understand, I was very angry about the communication. I fully agree that the communication of the Federal Pension Service on the increase of 0,7% of the minimum pension granted for a full career was not clear at all. I regret the confusion and concern caused by the letter from the FPD to the citizens. When reading that letter, one could indeed believe that the pension of the persons concerned has fallen, while in reality it has risen. As soon as I was informed of the problem and read the letter from the FPD, I immediately contacted the administrator-general of the FPD, asking for a correction in connection with the increase of 0,7% of the minimum pension to be sent to all beneficiaries. In the meantime, the letter containing the explanatory memorandum was sent. I have also asked to ensure in future that any adjustment is properly explained, so that such problems no longer arise.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-14-54-commissie-ic616x.u4	I am pleased to hear that you have responded quickly and that the explanation for correction has already left. We usually have to ask something that has yet to be done, in this case you can confirm that it has happened. This is important, especially since you and the government have taken a lot of good measures in the area of pensions. It is a pity that communication sometimes has the opposite effect of what we all had in mind.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-14-54-commissie-ic616x.u5	The next item is the debate on the following motions for resolutions: 16410 by Mr Janssens, but he is not present. Questions Nos 17023 by Mr Blanchart, 17036 by Mrs Dumery and 17045 by Mrs Fonck were postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-14-54-commissie-ic616x.u6	Minister, we had an interesting hearing last week, in the presence of your spokesmen, on supplementary pensions. The immediate reason was the debate on the free supplementary pension for workers which many of the Academic Council do not really enjoy, but you will find an ally in me. So count yourself lucky. Other topics were also discussed, namely the theoretical justification for a system consisting of balanced pillars, the relationship between capitalization and repartition, taxation, the split of pensions, the strengthening of the second pillar and the so-called first pillar bis. I'd like to know what you thought, Mr. Secretary? What is interesting about hearings is that they hear what the Minister thought afterwards. That is the way a parliament should work in theory, but unfortunately that is not always the case. That is why I am asking this question. Minister, one of the main challenges is how we can get the contribution rate to 3% for supplementary pensions. It is the objective of the Academic Council to do so within 15 years and in all private sectors. That is why we need the social partners. Unfortunately, we find that in the IPA that has just been closed they have not provided for additional efforts on supplementary pensions. We regret this, of course, with you, Minister. Frank Vandenbroucke suggested that an agreement be reached with them. He made an interesting proposal whereby the government would reduce the burden on the lowest Ions in exchange for binding agreements on supplementary pensions. That's a proposal out of the box, vintage Frank Vandenbroucke. Lower charges, even more tax cuts, of course we are in favour of this, Mr Spoorten.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-14-54-commissie-ic616x.u7	Can we not vote on this today?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-14-54-commissie-ic616x.u8	I'd be happy to. It'd be quick. Minister, what is your opinion on this proposal, whereby the social partners commit themselves to an additional effort on supplementary pensions in exchange for a commitment to further reduce the burden on the lowest wages by tax shift? A second question concerns the free supplementary pension for employees. As you know, Frank Vandenbroucke has already said, they see this as a threat to the collective character of the second pillar. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that Mr Vandenbroucke spoke in his personal capacity in response to a question I asked him. He never said he was answering on behalf of the Academic Council. The Academic Council, through Mr Yves Stevens, confirmed their absolute opposition to this. I have tried to get them to think better by asking them to take a positive look at this, but they do not want to know about it. They cling to the collective character. I have, as you know, given counter gas. After all, besides the collective, it also has its individual rights and if an employee feels that he or she wants to put aside part of his or her salary for a pension, then that should be possible. Mr Minister, have you already consulted the Academic Council on the issue of free supplementary pensions? If so, what is the result? I come to a third point. What I personally found most interesting, Mr Spoorten, is Professor de Callataÿ's presentation on taxation. Did you follow that? Mrs Becq was present at the hearing on supplementary pensions and she listened to the debate on the taxation of supplementary pensions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-14-54-commissie-ic616x.u9	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-14-54-commissie-ic616x.u10	I personally found that very interesting because, for example, Minister, he said that some top managers.... he did not want to mention a company.... very high additional pension contributions, sometimes even more than EUR 100 000 on an annual basis, are used as part of a fiscal optimisation of their wage package. In other words, I am in favour of fiscal incentives for supplementary pensions, but one optimises them in such a way that one actually converts wages into pensions. Shortly, for the new MP, the following. In certain public enterprises, wage ceilings have been agreed for the CEO. It is added that pay is a kind of pension contribution which actually amounts to a wage which allows you to exceed the ceiling and to make use of the tax-benefit treatment of the supplementary pension. Minister, the question is how do you assess this situation? In fact, Mr de Callataÿ says that the tax treatment of supplementary pensions, which is relatively advantageous, ensures that some find the best way in terms of taxation. One can, of course, ask questions about this. So much for my questions, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-14-54-commissie-ic616x.u11	Mr President, the proposal by Mr Frank Vandenbroucke, President of the Academic Council, to conclude an agreement with the social partners, committing themselves to developing the second pillar in exchange for a reduction in the burden on the lowest wages exceeds the limits of the government agreement and my powers as Minister of Pensions. The government agreement provides that the social partners will be asked to examine the extent to which a certain percentage of wage increases can be used to pay contributions to supplementary pension plans in order to achieve a contribution level of at least 3% of wages in each sector. That's what I did during the most recent interprofessional agreement. I invited the social partners to place the item on the agenda of their discussions on IPA. The result of IPA 2017-2018 is unfortunately not as compelling as we could have hoped. However, the agreement of the social partners of 2017-2018 provides for a specific focus on the elimination of differences in treatment of supplementary pensions between the workers and the servants. It may be hoped that the following IPA debt instruments will be more binding on the development of the second pillar. So I'm sticking to the coalition agreement. Having said that, I personally agree with the idea of an initiative by the government, which goes beyond the tax shift, with a view to continuing the reduction of wage burdens and strengthening the second pillar by establishing a link between the two. The consultation with the Academic Council on the free supplementary pension for employees is scheduled for 13 April 2017, i.e. one month from now. I now look forward to concrete discussions on the subject, even though there are significant differences between the members of the Academic Council. The light will come out of the discussion! I have taken note of Mr de Callataÿ's statements on the taxation of supplementary pensions. I would like to reiterate that there are already a number of rules which limit the excessive build-up of supplementary pensions, such as the 80% rule, conditions for the tax deductibility of employers' contributions, the special social security contribution of 1.5 % due if the supplementary pension is to be built up beyond certain limits. Having said that, Mr de Callataÿ's position is worthy of consideration, but the discussion should be conducted with all the partners concerned, and in particular with the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-14-54-commissie-ic616x.u12	Minister, thank you for your answer. Hope makes you live, that's the least you can say! In any event, the outcome of the inter-professional agreement, particularly as regards pensions, is disappointing and it is regrettable that the social partners still tend to... It's kind of like the difference between the cricket and the ant. Do you know that story? One eats everything quickly and the other places stocks in order to save for retirement in the long term. The social partners behave like a cricket while you are the ant, Minister. I am pleased that you welcome Mr Vandenbroucke's personal idea. Hopefully the combination of personal ideas can lead to something. If we do not force the social partners to reserve a certain proportion of supplementary pension pay, we will never get that 3%. The story of the cricket and the ant is also interesting when it comes to the rather supplementary pension. I am convinced that it is absolutely necessary for people individually to behave sparingly by reserving part of their wages for their future pension, i.e. the free supplementary pension for employees. One cannot continue to hide behind the collective idea that if no one wants to move forward, like the social partners, the individual people must accept that. I think we need to combine, but I do agree that we should not set up the free supplementary pension system for employees in such a way that it is at the expense of collective pensions. You understand that from my point of view. One must be able to be combined with another and we must provide sufficient safeguards to enable collective growth to continue. I think that should be taken into account. Perhaps a slightly different tax treatment might encourage employers to opt for the collective supplementary pension. Thirdly, with regard to Mr de Calattaÿ. It is true that there are limits. I am thinking in particular of the 80% rule. But you know as well as I do that, according to the Court of Auditors, the application of this rule is difficult to control.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-14-54-commissie-ic616x.u13	We'll see her again.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-14-54-commissie-ic616x.u14	I'm listening!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-14-54-commissie-ic616x.u15	We'll see her again. It will no longer be calculated on the basis of the last year of salary. Indeed, it is enough to "inflate" a year. From now on, it will be calculated on the basis of three years' pay, rather than on one, in real time.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-14-54-commissie-ic616x.u16	Real time! What does that mean?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-14-54-commissie-ic616x.u17	This means that the reality of wages will be taken into account in the three years preceding the year of payment.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-14-54-commissie-ic616x.u18	Let's hope that will give some results! In any case, Mr de Callataÿ's reflection on the taxation of supplementary pensions is interesting. Indeed, he said that a kind of flat tax on supplementary pensions had been introduced by a socialist under the Dehaene government, namely Mr Vandenbroucke. It's interesting to know. He called for an increase in these taxes. I think we need to be careful. Indeed, at the global level, we are already the tax champions. This is an issue that the next government will have to address.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-14-54-commissie-ic616x.u19	Mrs Becq, you had informed us that you would be late, so we are very lenient to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-14-54-commissie-ic616x.u20	Mr President, I did not know that the first five Members would not be here, otherwise I would have come straight away. I come from the Justice Commission and I have to go back there in a moment, otherwise there will be no quorum. Mr President, my question on the regularisation of the academic years dates back to 27 January. I actually have some additional questions with regard to my written submission, but I will leave it at that. There is the system for regularizing the years of study, a piece to compensate for the bonification that is being reduced by the officials. In order for this to work equally, as I understand it, for employees, self-employed persons and civil servants, there is also a system of regularization of years of study for those three groups, where the number of years of study for one diploma can be regularized and, at the same time, a transitional period would be provided for. This transitional period does give rise to some discussion, in particular on solidarity between the older generation and the younger generation and on what this means. In the original proposals, the age limit for regularisation was set at 21 years, while there are still questions as to whether those years of study should be regularized down, so that it would not be possible to do so only from 21 years or perhaps 20 years old. I do not know what it is now, but also from 18 years old. After all, there are also heavy training courses there which would not be regularizable. An additional argument I would like to make in my question is that sometimes it is a problem-solving profession. I would like to make an additional argument, although perhaps that is a bit off. If one finds that people who study longer often also live longer, it should also be an argument to ensure that those who have studied less long, and that is not because they are dumber, and who started on 18 years and obtained a diploma before their 21st, could certainly make use of such regularization. That is why my question is mainly about that group of people, employees. To what extent is it true that for the time being there is no possibility of regularisation for these training courses? Would you like to adapt this if necessary and if necessary consult with the Communities on this matter? If there is an adjustment, is it similar for employees, civil servants and the self-employed?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-14-54-commissie-ic616x.u21	The Council of Ministers of 24 February last adopted the legislative texts aimed at harmonising the regularisation of study periods within the three pension systems. The government has decided that the regularisation of study periods should only take place before the studies are completed in higher education. However, an exception is provided for the apprenticeship contracts. Since the apprentice works but does not build up pension rights during that period, the government wanted to give him the opportunity to build pension rights by providing for a regularisation, linked to the learning contract. Those adjustments apply to the three pension systems. The regularisation of the apprenticeship contract will be possible in the system of employees, the self-employed and the civil servants. Although education is a Community competence, pension regulation falls exclusively within the competence of the federal government. The general rule during the three-year transitional period will indeed be the age limit of 20 years. This is already the case today for the employees and the self-employed. After the transitional period after the first three years, the rule becomes the age limit of 18 for all in all schemes, i.e. the self-employed, employees and civil servants, without discrimination. The age limit of 20 years is therefore only counted during the first three years, i.e. during the transitional period. However, the Länder took part in the discussions held in the A Committee on the preliminary draft law on the public sector.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-14-54-commissie-ic616x.u22	Mr President, first of all, I understand that you say that there has been consultation with the Communities on the Staff Regulations. In fact, I asked you about consultation with the Communities, because they are dealing with educational diplomas. Of course, I know that pensions are a completely federal issue, but training is recognized by the Communities, and diplomas are also recognized by the Communities. That is why I believe that there would be consultation on the diploma certificates. I see your staff nodding. That's an answer to my question. Secondly, you said that the government took the decision on 22 February. My question dates back to the end of January, as I said. This gives me the opportunity to ask you again whether this is profitable. You know there is a great deal of concern about this. Self-employed people can already know today whether it is profitable for them, because it is calculated for them. I once asked you whether a calculation tool would also be provided by your ministry for the public sector. I don't want to make things too difficult for you, and I don't want to advertise newspapers, but De Tijd once put a tool like this on his website. I've been told this was supervised by a big office. If you validate this tool as a very good one, and if it remains freely accessible, that is also a solution for me. Otherwise, the question remains as to how these people are supported to know whether this is useful to them or not, both in the transition period and afterwards, knowing that there is obviously no prediction for people's lives and careers.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-14-54-commissie-ic616x.u23	Of course, the Federal Pension Service administration will develop a methodology to provide the best information. I asked that we study the possibility of including in mypension.be a simulator to calculate the rights generated by the purchase of years of study.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-14-54-commissie-ic616x.u24	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Vanvelthoven's 15822 will be converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-14-54-commissie-ic616x.u25	Minister, you are preparing a reform of the diploma certificates. Of course, we think it is positive that the free graduation of civil servants should be abolished. For example, the scheme whereby the years of study of civil servants are counted free of charge for the pension ends, but the years of study of employees and self-employed persons are not. That arrangement was rightly felt by many people as unjust. So there will be a new scheme whereby everyone, regardless of their status, can count their years of study for the pension against payment. That arrangement has been the subject of many newspaper articles and we have also paid a great deal of attention to it when discussing your policy paper. However, there are still many citizens who have specific questions. For the time being, there is little transparency about the measure. In addition to the principle, there are also many concrete modalities. It is important that we have some clarity about these modalities. My questions concern the diploma holders who will be eligible for the diploma certificate. In your policy paper, I quote: "All diplomas, even those not required for the job, may give rise to their taking into account for the pension calculation." A single diploma can be regularized only for the successful years of study. Firstly, can only a maximum number of years be regularised? If so, how many years is it? Secondly, why can only a diploma be regularised? Let me give you an example. A doctor studying for six years will be able to buy off six years unless there is a lower maximum. However, someone who first obtains his master's degree and then studies through master's after master's, will only be able to buy off the period corresponding to the first diploma, four years and not five years. I don't think that makes any sense. A lot of students are getting a second degree these days, which is also very positive. What about the years of general practitioner training for two years or the many specializations in medical training following the six-year basic training? Will they be able to be regularized? Could you clarify the scheme specifically for the current and future holders of a doctor's degree?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-14-54-commissie-ic616x.u26	On the basis of the texts which will shortly be submitted to Parliament, the regularisation of the academic years will be possible up to the minimum number of years of study required to obtain the diploma. In addition, if one determines that only a diploma can be regularised, one understands below the final diploma including all previous diplomas after secondary education required for the attainment of the final diploma in question. A master after master may therefore also be regularized. The period of professional placement completed by doctors will be regularised if the three conditions laid down in the draft law are met cumulatively. First of all, obtaining a diploma is a precondition for fulfilling the internship. Secondly, after the internship, a staff member must obtain a legally recognised professional codification. Thirdly, the internship is not eligible for the calculation of a pension in one of the Belgian or foreign social security systems.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-14-54-commissie-ic616x.u27	That's obvious.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-14-54-commissie-ic616x.u28	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Becq's 16747 will be converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-14-54-commissie-ic616x.u29	Minister, I asked you a question about supplementary pensions on 14 December last year. You may remember that vividly. You replied and I took the time to analyse your answers. Would you excuse me if I, as a member of the majority, am not satisfied with your reply? Colleagues, I'm trying to explain it in human terms. The supplementary pension was adjusted because it can no longer be taken up from 60 years old, but from 65 years old, because it follows the rules of the statutory pension. That's right. It is clear that the statutory retirement age cannot be set at 65 years and the supplementary pension can be granted from 60 years onwards. It is therefore clear that this age is being raised. The problem is I am trying to put it very clearly that people at 65 years of age will eventually receive less supplementary pensions than at 60 years. Why is that? This has to do with the fact that if one chooses the DB pension plans, Defended Benefit, which are expressed in interest but which offer the possibility to include the value in capital, the conversion at 65 years is less advantageous than at 60 years. Why? After 65 years, the average life expectancy is still 15 years, while after 60 years it is still 20 years. Your conversion coefficient is therefore less interesting, with the result that the amount, the capital, which one gets after 65 years will be lower than what one gets after 60 years. This has implications for a number of companies in our country, where according to the newspaper it would be about Proctor & Gamble, a small company with 1 200 employees. They are now all threatening to get less pension because of that rule. I'm not just saying that, that was explicitly confirmed. The problem is not that the company has not provided for these amounts, on the contrary, they are provided for, but it must not pay them out, at least in total. Therefore, Minister, I would like to ask my own kindness to change the legislation in this respect punctually. It concerns Article 63/5 of the Act, the last paragraph of which states: "The entry into force of a particular article cannot in any case lead to a reduction in the reserves acquired which existed at its entry into force. That article is insufficient to guarantee that people would not lose a pension. Is it true, Minister, that in these cases the capital paid out at 65 years is lower than the capital to be paid out at 60 years? If so, are you prepared to amend the relevant article so that we can guarantee for those workers that they will receive the pension they were promised? After all, that is what this is about. The employer makes a promise about the pension, but a rule in the legislation suddenly makes it less pensionable. I don't think that's right. We must deliver on the promises we make, not only in politics but also in business.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-14-54-commissie-ic616x.u30	Mr President, when the pension plan provides for a fixed payment of interest, the establishment capital of interest is less high at 65 years than at 60 years. In any event, this is not the result of the law of 18 December and Article 63 of that law. This is the result of actuarial calculations applicable to all pension plans in interest. The amount of interest promised by the employer is under no circumstances adjusted by law. In the event that you mention, the employer, although it is a pension plan in interest, has allowed the employee to claim the establishment capital of the interest with the consequences that this entails and which are inherent in the pension plan in interest. If an employer wanted to pay a performance to his employees in capital, the employer should have ensured that the performance was a capital rather than an interest. Moreover, it is not currently in the interests of employees to opt for the establishment capital of interest. The establishment capital indeed depends on the tariff rules laid down in a pension regulation. If, for example, the establishment capital is calculated on the basis of an interest rate of 3,25 % and the mortality table, the member in the personal title of that establishment capital will not be able to buy the interest promised by the employer from a financial institution, bank or insurance company, due to the low interest rates and the improved life expectancy. Since that option to deposit the establishment capital is not in the benefit of the member and has nothing to do with the law of 18 December 2015, I do not think it is necessary to amend the law. In addition, I would remind you that it was the subject of the Group of Ten's agreement.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-14-54-commissie-ic616x.u31	Minister, thank you for your answers. I'm disappointed. You say that's not the consequence. This is not the direct consequence, but it is the indirect consequence of this law that raised the age from 60 to 65. You say that these employees had to choose another plan to avoid being affected by this change. I find it shocking: they have been promised an amount and this amount will now be reduced. That's not acceptable! You say that it was the Group of Ten that confirmed this approach, but I imagine that, despite its great wisdom, it did not have to take into account the example that I am taking! PensioPlus, who is the representative of the pension funds, supports in particular what I have just said. So I insist, without attacking you – you know I appreciate you – on the fact that you are looking at this measure. We may not have to change the law yet, but we would have to find a solution for these a few thousand people.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-14-54-commissie-ic616x.u32	The aim of the law is to delay the exit of the labour market.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-14-54-commissie-ic616x.u33	Yes, but not to reduce the amount of the pension. That's what's going on here!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-14-54-commissie-ic616x.u34	Unless they keep working longer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-14-54-commissie-ic616x.u35	Minister, when they stop working at the age of 65, they receive a supplementary pension which is less than what has been promised! There's a problem! I don't have to stop at 65 instead of 60, but they can't be told that their pension will be less than the one they would have been entitled to at 60! That's what happens today! I hope you understand my concern! I suggest that you look at this problem and find a consensus solution. I think you've understood everything I've just said, the problem I've described. All this will be confirmed by PensioPlus, I don't tell you jokes!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-14-54-commissie-ic616x.u36	Mr President, Minister, this and my next question relate to a number of important pension reforms that still have to be implemented. I have just said that a lot has happened, but there is still something to be done. The government agreement refers to the introduction of the mixed pension for civil servants. You also mentioned this in your 2017 policy paper. This would be an important step forward in the harmonisation of pension systems. It ensures that a person who is appointed to the government during his or her career will receive a proportional civil servant's pension. He will benefit from an employee's pension for the years worked as a contractual servant and from a public sector pension for the years worked as an official after his appointment. This will put an end to the issue of late appointments of contractual civil servants in the public sector. The VVSG has been a long-time party to the introduction of this mixed pension. As you have announced, this should be linked to the development of a supplementary pension for contractual officials. So, Minister, I have the following questions. Firstly, can you give me an update on the introduction of the mixed pension? Secondly, I have heard that there are discussions with the social partners. How's that going? What are the main obstacles there? Third, what's the timing? When do you intend to introduce this mixed pension?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-14-54-commissie-ic616x.u37	Mr President, Mr Spooren, I naturally intend to implement the coalition agreement. It provides for the introduction of the mixed pension. A draft text submitted to the Council of Ministers is currently being discussed in the A Committee. During these talks, the trade unions asked for the part that makes adjustments to the supplementary pension regulations to be added to the draft. Work on the addition of this section is currently being completed. In the coming weeks, therefore, I will present the draft law, supplemented by this section, to the A Committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-14-54-commissie-ic616x.u38	If this is a matter of weeks, that's good news. This is a pretty short notice.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-14-54-commissie-ic616x.u39	Minister, there has recently been a lot of commotion in the press about the equivalence of runway periods and time appropriations for pension building. You answered questions about this in plenary last week. The N-VA is a strong supporter of the legislative amendment which has ensured that only motivated time-credit is treated as pension-building. In this way, there is more of a link between contributions to the pension and benefits, which the government generally strives for. However, we also believe that, as mentioned in the plenary session, it should not have a retroactive effect, but rather that it should not have a retroactive effect. The Pension Commission with Frank Vandenbroucke, which is quoted here regularly, stated in its additional opinion of April 2015 that introducing a part-time pension is a better way of working than the current system with runways. I quote: "As an exit system, part-time retirement is, in principle, more logical and coherent than existing exit systems, such as unemployment with farm payment or so-called runways. On the one hand, part-time pensions can be opened up to all, without distinction according to the company or sector in which they are employed, on the other hand, part-time pensions can be granted without limitation in time (i.e. without restrictions on time credits, for example) because part-time pension schemes are based on pension rights that people have built up and an actuarial correction is made according to the withdrawal time of that pension. It is a very important and fundamental change, even more important than that of the mixed pension. So she's probably not easy to implement. Mr Minister, what is the position on this matter? When do you plan to introduce this? I suppose that won't take weeks, but a little longer. Will the part-time pension be compatible with equivalences for end-of-life schemes, such as time credit, runway or pre-retirement leave?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-14-54-commissie-ic616x.u40	Referring to the report of the Pension Reform Committee 2020-2040, drawn up in June 2014, the government agreement provides for the following quote: "The government will examine how partial retirement can be made possible." In November 2014, I asked the President of the Academic Council to deepen the issue of the transition from active life to retirement with a view to extending careers. The Board had to clarify the conditions for the introduction of a part-time pension. The additional opinion on that question was drawn up in April 2015. In line with what I had announced in my general policy paper, the National Pension Committee was asked to examine the possibility of introducing a part-time pension system accessible from the age before the early retirement. The President of the Academic Council was heard yesterday, 13 March, to present his supplementary report and to answer the questions of the members of the National Pension Committee. The question of the compatibility of part-time pension with existing end-of-life schemes, in particular the end-of-life credit, is one of the fundamental questions to be examined by the members of the National Pension Committee. The government will then have to take a decision on the draft texts, which will hopefully be finally approved before the end of the legislative term.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-14-54-commissie-ic616x.u41	Minister, as I expected, it is not a matter of weeks, but rather of about two years. Do I understand correctly that yesterday was explained by the Academic Council to the National Pension Committee?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-14-54-commissie-ic616x.u42	Yes.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-14-54-commissie-ic616x.u43	I'll get those documents. Have any new insights been disseminated in that presentation?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-14-54-commissie-ic616x.u44	Mr Vandenbroucke presented his paper and the conclusions of the Academic Council to the National Pension Committee yesterday. Everyone agrees on the principle of partial pension, but the difficulty comes from what you have just raised, namely that of course the problem of time credit, career interruption, end of career. On the other hand, there is the whole actuarial problem of calculation. This is much more complex, because we need to have an actuarial calculation of the partial pension in relation to the life expectancy that remains after the age at which we decide to take part of our pension. It's something very complicated.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-14-54-commissie-ic616x.u45	Mr Minister, this question is about diploma-bonification. Mr Becq and Mr Janssens have already asked questions, but they were about something else. I have a number of punctual questions with regard to the agreement reached in the Council of Ministers on diploma-bonification. Firstly, in relation to age, the age from which the diploma can be converted into retirement, the diploma can be bought off. I have heard that the age for employees and the self-employed would be 20 years. I find that a little strange and I'm going to tell you why. When explaining your policy paper, you specifically said that it could be done from the age of 18. Apparently, it's now 20 years old. I find that strange, all the more so because the draft law removes the age of 20 years. I do not understand it well, the Council of Ministers says it will be 20 years, but the draft law that you are going to submit states that the age condition of 20 years will be removed. I don't quite understand how you're gonna solve that, how you can rhyme it. Secondly, I would once again like to see a different treatment between employees and the self-employed, on the one hand, and civil servants, on the other. In the case of civil servants, it is only possible to buy it off from the age of 18, in the case of employees and self-employed persons from the age of 20. I don't think that's fair. I think that's discriminatory. I do not understand why employees and self-employed people are more stringent than civil servants. The third problem, Minister, is that, at the age of 20, bad students are favoured over good students. Why? A person who has been studying and graduating for four years from the age of 18 will only be able to buy off two years. Someone who's been studying since he was 18, who's stuck for two years, graduating at 24 years, will be able to buy off four years. A bad student is rewarded better than a good student. I do not think that is acceptable, I do not think that is fair, and I do not think that is appropriate in the spirit of this reform. In short, the 20-year rule is a problematic rule. Anyway, you propose to delete that rule in the draft law. So I suggest we just stick to the bill. Then many problems have been solved. I also hear, however, that it is expected that the majority will table an amendment to re-introduce these 20 years. I do not think that is obvious, ladies and gentlemen. I'm saying that already, in all kindness. The Minister doesn't really think it's necessary. That is a good thing, ladies and gentlemen. By the way, I know who asked that question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-14-54-commissie-ic616x.u46	I thought it was an Open Vld request.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-14-54-commissie-ic616x.u47	No, no. Not the Open Vld. From another party, Minister!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-14-54-commissie-ic616x.u48	In any case of the N-VA, but the Open Vld also agreed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-14-54-commissie-ic616x.u49	Yes. But there is the government and there is parliament! With respect to funding, as the 20-year rule was introduced and discussions continued within the government, this measure will only come into effect on June 1, instead of March 1.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-14-54-commissie-ic616x.u50	Yeah, I hope so.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-14-54-commissie-ic616x.u51	Like you, I'm disappointed. That's right. But, Minister, the fact that it only comes into effect on 1 June instead of 1 March certainly has budgetary effects. You had planned a revenue of 41 million euros for this year. What effect will this measure have on the budget? Can we say that instead of 41 million euros, we hope to have... Should we apply the rule of three and amount to some EUR 25 million? Has this been taken into account for the budget? After all, we have to prepare the budget in a serious way. Minister, my third question had already been put to you by Mr Spooren and myself. This is the problem of pensioenval, of the trap to the pension: when someone increases his pension in gross order to finally receive less net. It's absurd, but it's not your fault. This is the reality today. I do not know when you will find a solution to this, in collaboration with the Minister of Finance. I believe that a solution must be found by 1 June, the date of entry into force of the new system. What's the timing? My fourth question is with Mrs Becq. Of course, I support this measure; but you know very well that it is a complex and difficult measure. It would be a good thing if the site mypension offers a simulation tool to calculate whether or not someone benefits from this measure. Otherwise, I fear that no one will dare to use this measure and that budgetary revenues will not follow. I therefore ask you whether it is possible to provide a simulation tool.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-14-54-commissie-ic616x.u52	In fact, it was decided to limit the benefit of regularisation, but only during the transitional period. Three years. The general rule is 18 years for everyone. The general rule is 18 years for everyone, both for self-employed persons and for employees and civil servants. This is already the case for civil servants. For the self-employed and the employees, for the moment, it is twenty years. There is no discrimination, since the current system is maintained during the three-year transitional period. The general rule will indeed be changed: it will be 18 years for everyone. I confess that this is a compromise. We discussed it in the Council of Ministers. There was a very strong demand from the N-VA on this issue. She didn't hide from it. You have already expressed this on several occasions. Moreover, the Open Vld agreed with this concept. It was assumed that the rule would be the same for everyone. I absolutely wanted to achieve real harmonisation. That's the general rule! However, we decided, partly for budgetary reasons, that, during the transitional period, we would keep this 20-year limit – as is already the case for the self-employed and the employees. The budget estimates of the administration, thus forty-one and forty-two million, were out of eighteen thousand regularisations made by the employee scheme during the transitional period. These estimates were based on the behaviour observed in a previous reform, which increased the regularization period from five to ten years after the end of the studies. However, since regularisation can take place until the end of the professional career as part of the current reform, it seemed more prudent to take a higher number of regularisations than that estimated by the administration. This is why the 20-year age limit has been set. The impact on the 2017 budget, linked to this decision, is currently being examined in the context of the work on budgetary control. Moreover, the government has entrusted the Federal Planning Office with an analysis of the longer-term impact on ageing costs. There was no reason to await this analysis, given the positive budgetary impact of the reform as a whole in the longer term. The limitation to the age of 20 does not apply to officials. There is no discrimination. The social partners were not consulted on this change since the consultation had already taken place. This took place at second reading, after the social partners' opinion had already been delivered. The opinion given by the Management Committee of the Federal Pensions Service on December 21, 2016 is not a unanimous opinion. It includes a large number of considerations from both employers and workers. On the question of the financial advantage of buying back years of study, employers do not pronounce themselves, even if they say they subscribe to the overall objective of the reform. Workers' representatives indicated that the measure could be positive for some workers but pointed to the problem of pensioenval, of the pension trap. It's a problem that dates back a few years and that we have a hard time solving. It was tried to be resolved in Parliament in early 2016, unanimously, but it did not work. It was a proposal by Mr Laaouej and Mrs Wilmès, who had tried to find a system to solve this thought. It has been partly resolved in the sense that there is no real reduction in pensions. But there is the fact that a gross pension increase may very well not have an impact on the net pension. This problem can be found for pensions between 15 518 and 16 600 euros gross per year. But this is not a problem of buying back years of study, it is true for any pension increase, whether it be indexation, the welfare envelope, the holiday money, etc. Not all those in this range benefit from the increase. We have therefore set up, together with Minister Van Overtveldt, a working group on this issue, bringing together my cabinet and those of Minister Borsus and Minister Van Overtveldt. I hope that a technical solution will soon be found to this threshold effect. As you know, in the area of pensions, there is a tax reduction, which is classic in replacement allowances, but the effect of which has not been calculated on the basis of the cessation of the reduction. This decision implies that we end up with a much higher rate. It is this problem, which is enormous since it still concerns 128,000 people, that needs to be solved today.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-14-54-commissie-ic616x.u53	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-14-54-commissie-ic616x.u54	There is a budgetary cost, since the solution will involve a reduction in revenue.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-14-54-commissie-ic616x.u55	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-14-54-commissie-ic616x.u56	Less taxes for people. So this concerns 128,000 people, and I hope that we will be able to resolve the problem of budgetary control at the end of March, that is to say... now. In accordance with what is contained in the texts, the administration will provide all useful information to those who wish to regularise their years of study. That information shall cover, inter alia, the pension rights resulting from the regularisation carried out. I will also ask the administration to examine the possibility of integrating a simulation tool into mypension.be in this context.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-14-54-commissie-ic616x.u57	Minister, thank you. Of course, in politics, compromises must be made. But there is one argument that you have not answered – unconsciously, I think – that is the argument that it is unfair.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-14-54-commissie-ic616x.u58	I agree.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-14-54-commissie-ic616x.u59	My request is as follows: why not say, for example, that instead of twenty, we take the age of eighteen and limit, in particular, the number of years to be regularized? At that time, one can give the possibility to all students...
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-14-54-commissie-ic616x.u60	I do not want to reintroduce a discriminatory situation. In fact, we keep the current system – that is, 18 years for civil servants, 20 years for self-employed and employees – but only as a transitional measure. The general rule is 18 years for everyone. I don't want to invent a new system in between. Because then if I invent a new positive system, it will be discrimination.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-14-54-commissie-ic616x.u61	Why?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-14-54-commissie-ic616x.u62	Because there will be only a limited number for self-employed and wage-earners and there will be the normal number for civil servants.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-14-54-commissie-ic616x.u63	Let's limit it to public servants too.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-14-54-commissie-ic616x.u64	That's impossible! We tested it. Acquired rights must be taken into account. Take the example of an official who has already completed three-quarters of his career. He did four years of study. He will automatically be entitled to three free years and one year of regularisation for the years he still has to prepare. This system is therefore not compatible with a limitation on the number of years of study as one would face a Chinese puzzle that is extremely difficult to solve. In order to maintain the rights acquired for the years already completed by an official during his or her career, he or she must be granted free regularization of the years corresponding to the proportion of the years already completed. I don't think we can go back. And, more fundamentally, we must not reinvent a new system, at the risk of complicating the whole model. Things are already complicated enough. This is a transitional period of three years. After these three years, people who will be in the first ten years of their career will be able to buy back years of education that they have not been able to buy back. Thereafter, they will always be able to do so, but at actuarial value, which seems quite normal to me. As you pointed out, the 20-year limit was not included in my original project because I found it unfair to students who did not double. Indeed, the students who double will be favored. In other words, the least successful students are favored, which is a bit of a shame.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-14-54-commissie-ic616x.u65	It's unfair and inexplicable.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-14-54-commissie-ic616x.u66	I said it. That's why we got late. Indeed, I was clinging to the idea that it makes more sense to favour successful students. I also wanted this system to be applicable to apprenticeship contracts. In general, apprenticeship contracts do not cover 20 years, but 18 or 19 years.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-14-54-commissie-ic616x.u67	When will the study of the Federal Office of the Plan come out?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-14-54-commissie-ic616x.u68	They had been asked for it for March 15, but I don't know where they are today.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-14-54-commissie-ic616x.u69	Let us assume that this study gives you reason and says that the budgetary effect is positive, both in the short term and in the long term; this measure will eventually have to be reviewed over the twenty years. I regret to have to say so, but we will certainly also have the debate in Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-14-54-commissie-ic616x.u70	For my part, I am trying to comply with the agreements reached in the government. Everyone knew my initial position. Now I support the compromise solution that has been found by the government. I think that should be respected. There you go. Parliament will indeed be asked in relation to an amendment on this dossier, but I repeat that this concerns only the transitional period. That is not the general rule.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-14-54-commissie-ic616x.u71	We'll see. It is a little premature to say that, but now you know my concerns that you seem to share, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-14-54-commissie-ic616x.u72	Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for the questions.
