ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-04-54-commissie-ic743x.u1	A proposal was put forward by fellow Members to deal first with questions on the replacement dossier for the F-1673s, because this is in line with the full discussion that was just held in committee behind closed doors. Can everyone agree to that? Mr Van Hees and Mr Hedebouw are absent. That's too bad.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-04-54-commissie-ic743x.u2	I do think it is a minimum of respect for them to be informed of the change in the agenda. That didn't happen formally here.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-04-54-commissie-ic743x.u3	We could give them a call.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-04-54-commissie-ic743x.u4	Madam President, since Green wants to serve the PVDA colleagues, I suggest that we keep the regular agenda.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-04-54-commissie-ic743x.u5	They've been notified of this one.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-04-54-commissie-ic743x.u6	Madam President, I have tabled three questions on this subject, but I will not put my third question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-04-54-commissie-ic743x.u7	Of course, the questions to which you already have an answer must no longer be asked.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-04-54-commissie-ic743x.u8	That's something else. I would also like to see it in a public meeting. I propose that I ask the question about the replacement procedure, but not about the idea of the French President concerning the European army. I'll ask you another question. Mr. Secretary, after Boeing, Saab doesn't want to deliver fighter planes to our country. The Gripen is therefore no longer in the running to replace our F-16 pistols. The Swedish argue their withdrawal by stating that a question in the RfGP requires extensive operational support from the supplying nation. This would require a Swedish foreign policy and political mandate, something the Sweden cannot provide for. Of course, it is doubtful whether the Saab Gripen was ever really an opportunity for our country. Although the RfGP does not require explicit nuclear capacity, it does assign extra points to those who can deliver it. Sweden has always been clear in this: the Gripen cannot and must not carry nuclear bombs. In any case, therefore, there was no question of a completely fair procedure. I am therefore not surprised at all that they are withdrawing and have done so officially. I had a number of questions about the procedure with Sweden. I shall confine myself to my last two questions. Was there any further consultation with Sweden? If so, what conclusions can the Minister draw from this? What is the concrete timing for the next steps in this dossier? I come to my second question concerning the replacement procedure for the F-16 fighter aircraft. In the meantime, we know that only two candidates are in the running: the American F-35 and the Eurofighter of the European consortium. The French announced in a letter that they did not wish to participate in the prescribed procedure. However, this does not mean that the French would no longer be a candidate for the supply of fighter aircraft and replace the F-16 aircraft. The French Government addressed our government directly to make a proposal on military cooperation. That is why I would have liked to have answered the following questions, Minister. The Prime Minister already stated that lawyers will examine Dassault's proposal. When will you officially know more about it? Can the French proposal be handed over to the committee and discussed here? Can Defence give Parliament a first result from the evaluation of the applications? I suppose that will happen behind closed doors. I am not referring to technical specifications, but to other aspects of tenders. What concrete arguments did the French Government give not to submit a tender? Would the DOD have expected that at this stage of the procedure three out of five candidates would no longer submit a tender? What conclusions are drawn from this? Finally, I would like to ask about timing, but it has already been answered.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-04-54-commissie-ic743x.u9	Minister, the government has made the decision to replace the current 54 F-16s. The contract is expected to be signed by early 2019. The initial amount fixed for this contract is EUR 3.5 billion for the purchase of 34 aircraft. September 7, 2017 was the deadline for representatives of the manufacturers of the three combat aircraft still in competition to submit their initial offer. In this context, the press reported a number of important information including the fact that France was going to make a proposal "from government to government" to Belgium for the renewal of the fleet of combat aircraft, but that it would, however, give up responding to the invitation to tender. Minister, what is the state of play on this issue? Did France give you more information and/or reasons for its withdrawal than those published in the press, namely that the tender would favour the F-35? What will be the consequences of this withdrawal on the procedure? What will be the status of his government-to-government proposal if it is confirmed? For the PS, there are two important dimensions in this file. First of all, there is the European dimension, and I wanted to know whether your vision of the evolution of the issue fits well into this European dynamic of synergy in defence. Then there is the regional dimension and I wanted to know whether you intend to involve the Regions in the procedure, including with regard to offers that would not fall within the scope of the procedure, so that we can study with them the societal implications of this important issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-04-54-commissie-ic743x.u10	Minister, I also have a question of my own, which I will be very brief. After all, there are about fourteen questions. What's the status on the replacement of the fighter planes?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-04-54-commissie-ic743x.u11	Minister, on 11 July I tabled a question on almost the same subject. Today we are talking about France, at the time about Sweden. On 7 September it became clear that France would not submit a proposal in response to the RfGP sent out in March of this year. Instead, France offers a kind of partnership that would include the sale of fighter aircraft, as well as a generous package of potentially inefficient, questionable economic compensation. Official communication may not be critical of the way in which our country works, but Eric Trappier, CEO of Dassault, stated in the press a few months ago that the RfGP contained a nuclear capacity requirement which I quote "only the Americans can provide." He also said in the press that it was clear to him that it was the intention of Belgium and other countries to buy American. That leaves nothing to be desired. Minister, I have five questions for you. First of all, has France put itself out of business with this? Is the Rafale still a valid candidate? Secondly, has the French Government in any way informed you, your cabinet or the government that the RfGP would override too much in its view to a particular aircraft? Thirdly, the fact that three of the five prospective candidates have now withdrawn raises questions. Has anything gone wrong to your senses with the survey, which preceded the formatting of the RfGP? Isn't the market well explored? How do you explain other than three out of five companies, even before they were assessed, have dropped out? Fourthly, are the offers made by the US and the United Kingdom in conformity with the RfGP? Can the bids be viewed by the Army Purchases and Sales Commission? Finally, how can you continue to guarantee with only two devices at the end of the running period two devices that Belgium will nevertheless purchase the device with the best value for money?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-04-54-commissie-ic743x.u12	I also have a question about the successor of the F-16. Two candidates have officially filed a file to replace the Belgian fighter planes. It concerns the American Lockheed Martin, with the F-35, and the Eurofighter of the European Consortium. The French no longer participate in the procedure with their successor Rafale. They have not signed up, but they have proposed far-reaching cooperation between our countries that would go beyond just combat aircraft. I have two questions about that. Can you explain the French proposal? How do you assess this at the current stage of the ongoing procedure, in which Eurofighter and Lockheed Martin are still taking part? What are the next steps? How will you ensure that competition can also be maximised with two providers? After all, the lavage becomes very thin and the question arises as to whether we can still talk about proper competition.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-04-54-commissie-ic743x.u13	Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this Thursday, 7 September, only two of the three candidates remaining out of the five selected candidates submitted their detailed offer in response to the RfGP published by Belgium last March for the replacement of F-16 combat aircraft. France therefore did not submit an offer. This does not mean that France wishes to withdraw from the race. On the contrary, on the same day, the French government decided to go beyond the call for tenders by officially proposing to Belgium a partnership structuring around the Rafale. In addition to the provision of the Rafale, this partnership would include, according to the French Minister, "in-depth cooperation between our two armies in the operational, training and support fields, as well as industrial and technical cooperation involving companies from both countries". At the same time, Dassault Aviation recalled its very strong industrial presence in Belgium and proposed a medium- and long-term cooperation strategy. France thus makes offers which seem to exceed the requirements laid down by the Belgian Government in its RfGP. Of course, on the form, this French proposal does not follow the intermediate stage of 7 September proposed by Belgium in the framework of the RfGP. Nevertheless, it seems to me that this proposal deserves our full attention for several reasons. First, I recall that Belgium legitimately wanted the purchase of the successor of the F-16 to be from government to government by integrating a long-term strategic partnership with the selling country. It is therefore indisputable that the new French proposal responds to this request. Secondly, according to the terms of the RfGP itself, Belgium may decide at any time to cease the current procedure. Section 8 states that "the issue of this RfGP must in no way be interpreted as the Belgian Government's commitment to conclude an agreement or contract". In addition, bidders have done so at their own choices, risks and costs and will not be able to legally attack the government. If you decided, in spite of everything, to put France out of the game, Minister, then there would be only two competing options out of the five initially retained. After the withdrawal of the Grip LGN-16 and the possible exclusion of the French proposal, would it really be serious if the government could only make an objective choice between the two remaining aircraft, the American F-35 and the British Eurofighter? We know that the British have always been opposed to the establishment of a defence Europe. In addition, they are now leaving the European Union. As for the Americans, regardless of the questions that still arise about an aircraft still not finalized, they have also made little point against the European Union and have put forward their doctrine "America First". Trump's position on the transatlantic partnership is, moreover, no longer confusing. However, France must also develop and detail its offer. The French government must demonstrate the seriousness of its approach and explain how it intends to enforce this in-depth partnership within a Europe of defence under construction. In any case, Belgium cannot be satisfied with competition limited to British and American competitors. Indeed, in this case, the security, strategic, political, budgetary and industrial issues are such that one cannot afford a mock competition and a call for tenders that would end in "water of mud". Worse still, we cannot suggest that in reality everything would be played in advance, and that the RfGP would have been written in such a way as to favour the American F-35. In short, Minister, given the surprise of September 7, what do you intend to do? What is the future of the current procedure, based on the RfGP? Can we consider that the Rafale is still in the race? Does a reduced competition to two still make sense? How do you intend to respond to the French proposals? Can you tell us more about the content of the possible new French offer? Does it agree with your desire to promote the development of Defence Europe? Are you still considering making a decision and signing contracts before the end of this Parliament?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-04-54-commissie-ic743x.u14	Minister, bis repetita place – as your party president would say. For those who were absent, we talked for an hour about the same subject in camera - behind those windows that have since opened. So I'm going to repeat myself. On September 7th, France announced that it would not respond to your call for tender for the over-the-shelf purchase of 34 fighter bombers replacing the current F-16 fleet. However, your French counterpart proposed the same day that you set up a "in-depth and strategic partnership". According to Florence Parly, this Franco-Belgian collaboration could take the form of an intergovernmental agreement including the provision of the 34 aircraft but also a very extensive cooperation between the two Air components both at operational level – which explains Saab's withdrawal – and in the field of training, as well as industrial and technical cooperation involving the industrial fabric of the two countries, underpinned by the three Regions. Dassault therefore tries to circumvent the very official tender and the French aircraft manufacturer implies that it would be tailor-made for the F-35, as my colleague, Wouter De Vriendt, said. The Prime Minister, Charles Michel, said on that day that he would "legally analyse what this letter means, especially in view of the transparent procedure that we have launched in recent months". Mr. Minister of Defence, I wanted to ask you if you had already responded to this letter. I learned this morning that not when you read it in camera. So I'm not asking you any more. What legal analysis do you make of this partnership offer filed outside the procedure as initiated by sending the RfGP to the five original competitors? Indeed, as Mr Dallemagne said, the RfGP, in its Article 8 (page 16), states that "it must in no way be interpreted as the Belgian Government's commitment to conclude a contract or an agreement". Does this mean that if the government made the choice of partnership with France, the two candidates remaining in the race would not be able to challenge the possible end of the RfGP procedure? Finally, through its partnership, France puts on the table a common training channel, joint external operations, a sharing of airspace – military, I presume – in addition to simple combat aircraft. Is this, in your opinion, such as to guarantee the objectives of cooperation, technical support and deployability that were at the heart of the RfGP's spirit, if not to the letter?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-04-54-commissie-ic743x.u15	Minister, as part of the replacement procedure for fighter aircraft, the deadline for the candidate manufacturers to submit a tender expired on 7 September. However, the French Dassault did not submit a dossier for the Rafale fighter aircraft, but France proposed to our country instead a military cooperation whereby both countries would jointly buy or develop Rafale aircraft. What's the status of the file? What progress has been made on the current procedure for replacing the F-16s? What does the French proposal mean in concrete terms? How do you estimate the French Government's proposal? What follow-up will you give to the French proposal?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-04-54-commissie-ic743x.u16	Both Chancellor Angela Merkel and French President Emmanuel Macron announced that they would work together on the development of a new fighter plane just before the summer. Today, the competition between European fighters mainly consists of the German-British Eurofighter and the French Rafale. The decision of France and Germany to work together on a new fighter plane certainly opens up opportunities in the field of European defence. In Europe, a French-German fighter plane would reduce internal competition. Today Rafale and Eurofighter are direct competitors of each other, as in our replacement procedure. If the Franco-German plans become a reality, there will be a single European aircraft, which will reduce competition in Europe. The United Kingdom is likely to focus more on a partnership with the United States, at least according to the statements of British politicians. Germany and France announced that they want to draw up a timeline for the project by mid-2018. France and Germany are likely to find other partners in Europe to support the project. This may be an opportunity for Belgium to participate in the development of this device. At present, we are in a purchasing process where we are not part of the development phase, which means that costs are higher. The new French-German aircraft could change that. Of course, the development of the device still needs to be started. The government wants to replace the current F-16s between 2023 and 2028. The Franco-German aircraft cannot possibly be ready in a five-year period, but perhaps there are interim solutions? Has the German or French Government already contacted the Belgian Government about this proposal? Do you already have a better view of the timeline that the French and Germans want to draw up? Does it seem to you, regardless of timing, an opportunity to purchase a fully European device and to participate in the development phase of the device? Finally, timing is not ideal, but solutions are possible. For example, Belgium could lease aircraft until we can buy new ones. Don't you think it would be interesting to at least look at that slope?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-04-54-commissie-ic743x.u17	Madam President, Minister, my question is the same as that of Mr Top, and I can be brief. On 13 July, the French President announced a long-term cooperation project between France and Germany. It is a very ambitious project, very important for European defence. I would, of course, like Belgium to join in this and to know what steps are being taken in this direction. It's about the plane that's going to succeed our F-16s. In these areas, we know that we need to do this very well in advance, that is to say, right now to integrate this project. Minister, what is the government's response? What initiatives are being taken to integrate this project?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-04-54-commissie-ic743x.u18	Before I answer the questions, I would like to state that we are talking about replacing an air combat capacity from 2023, because from then on our F-16s will be removed from rotation. An initial investment of EUR 3.5 billion is foreseen for this purpose. That's the file we're talking about. In accordance with the Request for Government Proposal (RfGP), the submission of government proposals to the ACCaP Program Cell was expected by September 7, 2017. Based on bilateral discussions with the three remaining candidates, during which none of them objected to the process or content of the RfGP, the ACCaP cell expected to receive three government proposals. On September 7, 2017, the U.S. and British government agencies submitted a proposal to the ACCaP cell in accordance with the requirements of the RfGP. The French Government Agency, on the other hand, has not submitted a government proposal to this cell. The Agency has not previously informed the Defence of its intention not to submit a proposal. Moreover, the French Government has not given the reasons for this approach. On 6 September 2017, the day before, the French Minister of Armed Forces gave me a letter proposing that Belgium implement a comprehensive strategic partnership on combat aviation. The suggested leads in the three pages are consistent with what was requested in the RfGP. On the basis of this observation, I see no evidence that would have prevented France from submitting a detailed government proposal in accordance with what was requested in the RfGP. In this context, I would like to point out that no offer of prizes or answers have been sent by France to the 164 questions put to the candidates in the RfGP and which should have been in substance the government proposal expected. Having said that, I have nevertheless asked the defence staff and an external law firm specialising in public procurement to examine the legal value of the letter I received from my French colleague. We can only conclude that the French do not wish to participate in the competition, as defined by the decision of the Council of Ministers of 17 March, following the positive opinion of the Committee on Army Procurement and Sales. It is up to the government to decide what to do with my French colleague's letter. I would remind you that the government has decided that Defense must organise a competition to choose the replacement for the F-16. The Government has also determined the award criteria for this purpose, including the weight of each criterion. You can read all this in the RfGP on my website. Since this is a competition, the DOD must deal with the candidates in the same way, in accordance with the rules set out in the RfGP. In doing so, defence must respect the fundamental principles of the European Union's treaties, namely the principles of transparency, equality of treatment and non-discrimination. I believe that continuing negotiations with France on the same substantive elements as in the competition, i.e. in the context of the RfGP, would violate those principles. It would expose the Belgian State to criticism and legal proceedings. So, quite clearly, the French offer is not part of the competition. Defence has therefore received two government-to-government proposals, submitted in accordance with the requirements of the RfGP, one American and the other British, on behalf of the four European countries. It is therefore not a British offer, but the British are the spokesperson for the four countries participating in the Eurofigther project. These government proposals were drafted while three candidates were still competing. The competitive environment was and remains sufficient to ensure good value for money proposals. Generally speaking, a candidate cannot be reasonably required to respond to a request for an offer or to adapt his or her need to satisfy all candidates without the risk of finally finding himself or herself with a product that does not meet what is expected. As I have already stated, one or more withdrawals before the submission of offers is nothing unusual. This was also noted in other competitions. As with all public procurement, applicants decide whether or not to participate in the market on the basis of internal elements. The clearer the requirements and criteria of the specifications, the easier the analysis is to perform. So let me make it clear once again that it is not because a candidate decides not to participate in a competition that the specifications of the public contract should therefore be "directed'. No candidate with whom we have spoken has made such an allusion. In this context, I would also like to stress that my French colleague's letter does not contain the slightest allusion to the direction of competition towards a particular candidate, as some people are mistakenly saying. Those who come up with such criticism should first analyse the content of the RfGP, which is published on my website in its entirety, and then provide evidence. As regards the question of access to the tenders received, I can inform you that the legislation does not allow the contracting authority to access the documents received at the present stage of the process, so I do not. Now that we have received offers, we are in the so-called validation phase. We also follow the timing and process described in the RfGP. In the meantime, some 30 experts from Defence and the FPS Economy were appointed to assist the ACAP programme bureau with review teams in the further development of the procedure. To all these people, the validation method was explained, so that everyone works in the same way. The validation method was offered under sealed envelope to the Court of Auditors and to the Finance Inspector so that it can be verified later that everyone has worked correctly and according to the agreed rules. Only the Treasury Inspector accepted the envelope and took it into custody. The experts are currently taking note of the tenders received, each in their field of specialty, without having any knowledge of the parts of their colleagues. At that stage, it is important to check whether the tenders are coherent, complete and clear. If necessary, the Programme Office will ask the candidates additional questions to clarify the tender. Once these activities have been completed, applicants will be asked for a Best and Final Government Proposal. This is not a second chance to present a proposal, but an opportunity to update the initial government proposal, consolidated on the basis of discussions during the validation phase. A best and final sacrifice does not mean that candidates will have a second chance to submit a tender. It is a best and final sacrifice in the real meaning of the word. The submission of these final government proposals is scheduled for February 14, 2018. This date marks the end of the negotiations and contacts with the candidates and the beginning of the evaluation itself, which will be carried out by the experts of the Defence and the SPF Economy. Based on the results of this evaluation, a reasoned recommendation will be submitted to the Government. This means that from 14 February the doors will be closed again and there will be no more negotiations. From then on, the best and final sacrifices will be evaluated. History has shown that the development of a combat aircraft – or even a single plane – is part of a long process and generally spans several decades. As for the Franco-German initiatives, this is not the first time such a project has been launched in Europe, since several joint programmes for the development of a combat aircraft have already been launched: the Jaguar (with France and the United Kingdom), the Tornado (with Germany, Italy and the United Kingdom) and, more recently, the Eurofighter Typhoon (with Germany, Spain, Italy, the United Kingdom and initially France, who subsequently withdrew from the programme). In any event, European initiatives in the field of defence must receive our full attention, as long as they are aimed at strengthening European collective security, but also, more broadly, within NATO. Therefore, I will not fail to remain attentive to the follow-up to this recent Franco-German declaration of intent. For the sake of completeness, I would like to say that we are talking about a timeline to 2040, a little later than 2023. It does not make much sense to lease aircraft pending the development of a new aircraft. Such a development could take decades. We are talking at least in 17 years. Belgium cannot keep up with the technology with a leased device alone, and that is why we are looking for a partnership in the first place. At this stage, Defence focuses on the F-16 replacement program, which is scheduled to begin in 2023. Colleagues, I assume that this has largely answered your questions within the possibilities given to me during an ongoing procedure. I would like to add a personal note. I'm tired of suspects. By the way, I mentioned this in the media a few weeks ago. I am tired of defending myself and having to assume, as a truth, that what the CEO of a company, which is not a direct partner of our ACAP team, says, is being used to indicate that there would be sent here or there. Mr De Vriendt, once again I ask for proof in the RfGP and you are entitled to speak. I am tired of you quoting the words of someone who initially wished to take part in a public contest to try to undermine the sincere, honest work done by the ACAP team.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-04-54-commissie-ic743x.u19	Minister, I will reply to the two issues, the effective replacement and the idea of European cooperation. On the one hand, as far as replacement is concerned, I can follow your answer. You say that the current procedure does not allow the derogation proposed by the French in their letter to enter into talks with them at the same time or in addition to that procedure. That's correct. On the other hand, you mentioned suspicions about the procedure. But it's not about you as a person. Several providers have dropped out. There's two left. As I said in my introduction, we knew in advance that Saab could not meet the conditions. Sweden didn't want to commit. We knew that in advance. So that was a supplier, whom we knew in advance that he would lose weight. The other two are losing weight now, too. Is there therefore no prior conscience as to which type of aircraft of which generation Belgium would choose? Today there is only one type of aircraft that meets this requirement, one of generation 5, namely the F-35. There are two other providers, who will now go through the next steps in the procedure. I would also like to point out that, if there is not much competition left in the next steps, the offers may also produce less good competitive benefits for our country. You are right to warn about cooperation at European level on reality. Will the declarations of intent of the various ministers, prime ministers or governors really be translated into reality? That's a fair question. We need to know that in the coming months. Nevertheless, I would also like to point out that our own Prime Minister has pointed this out and has also expressed his support for it. Despite the drawbacks and the problems that exist, the period up to when the aircraft are replaced cannot be covered in any other way? Should we not take an initiative and pay more attention to the demand and intention to cooperate more at European level? I'd just like to point it out. You're talking about a replacement procedure that runs from 2023 to 2028. I hope the suppliers will be able to meet that. If we don't, we're gonna get in trouble anyway. I sincerely hope that at the moment when we get those planes delivered, we will not be able to get an out-of-date aircraft into our arsenal.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-04-54-commissie-ic743x.u20	Madam President, Minister, at this stage we do not have enough information, even though we had an exchange on military purchases earlier, at which you gave a lot of information. In any event, today we are not in a position to vote in favour of either candidate. As I have already had the opportunity to tell you, the fact that there are only two out of five candidates is a question for us. On the other hand, I would remind you that an essential element of this dossier relates to societal returns for the Regions, obviously in accordance with European rules. When I speak of societal returns, I am thinking above all of returns in terms of employment, an aspect of this issue which is, for me, essential. I cannot imagine that, as a federal minister, you did not take into account the specificities of Walloons in this matter. Indeed, Wallonia is at the cutting edge of these technologies. Let me also be surprised that the new Walloon government partner did not consider it appropriate to intervene in this debate, even though we know what this could bring to the Region. Mr Minister, I sincerely hope that this crucial and symbolic dossier will not be relegated to be just another Community dossier.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-04-54-commissie-ic743x.u21	Madam President, I do not think I have mentioned anything which should make it clear that I want to make the issue a Community file. The opposite is true. However, perhaps there are Members who would like that.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-04-54-commissie-ic743x.u22	Thank you, Minister, for your explanation. I would also like to say a few points of reply, especially to the members of the committee. I am also constantly experiencing the distrust of the left side of the Green Party, the sp.a. and just now the PS. Suddenly, the procedure and the ledger raise questions. I would remind you that both the procedure and the specifications have been drawn up in accordance with Belgian and European legislation on public procurement. They have received the blessing, not only from the Finance Inspector, but also from Foreign Affairs, Economic Affairs, the Council of Ministers and our own competent parliamentary committee. I'd like to remind everyone of that. We have also discussed the matter in detail in the relevant committees. The publication has been made in all transparency, which is, by the way, a unique feature of such a large public contract. If there are comments or complaints, it is better to come up with all the transparency and certainly with evidence. In the other case, one must remain silent and stop the suspicions. As for the course of the competition, I would like to point out that it is only natural that candidates lose weight in a competition. That's why it's called a competition. The question I would like to put to the cabinet is the following. Is it so strange that in the final phase only two candidates remain, or is it perhaps the case in different countries? Furthermore, I have not yet seen any official communication stating that the candidates who withdrew were doing so because of our administration and our specifications. So much for my reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-04-54-commissie-ic743x.u23	I would now like to give the floor to Mr De Vriendt.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-04-54-commissie-ic743x.u24	Madam President, Minister, this is a crummy course. I don't have another word for that. You say it makes sense for candidates to lose weight. That is true, but the journey has not yet started, Madam President, because three of the five candidates have not even presented a proposal. The market exploration, the survey, has happened, but in what way has it been done when three of the five possible candidates have already dropped out before the actual competition begins? I am thinking of a statement by the CEO of Dassault, the maker of the Rafale, in particular that this is not a fair competition and that they suspect a preference for the Americans. I am also thinking of a statement by Boeing's spokeswoman, according to whom there is no level playing field. And I am thinking of a statement by Saab saying that they cannot engage in Belgian military operations if they do not agree with it. These are three elements that could have emerged from the market exploration. Colleagues, including the majority, we are risking spending more than EUR 3 billion of taxpayers' money on an aircraft and we have the choice of two candidates, ocharm, including a British aircraft. I do not have to draw a picture of which candidate we will end up with: the most expensive of the series, the American F-35. That's where our taxpayers' money goes, when we should be spending Defense money much better. Apart from the substantive objections we have to this dossier, we call for more specialization within Defence. We do not think it is right to spend our taxpayers' money on this purchase, but if we do spend the money, let us do it in a good, sensible way, with fair competition. Three out of five candidates have already dropped out before the competition even started. This is a wrecking course, this is one big fiasco.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-04-54-commissie-ic743x.u25	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. Anyone who knows what a public invitation to tender is also knows, as has already been mentioned here by a few colleagues, that people are invited and that the organisations are free to reply. Mr De Vriendt, I do not agree at all if you call this a chunk course. The procedure is what it is, according to European legislation and according to Belgian legislation. The fact that three of the five candidates have not replied is part of their freedom and is their decision. This has nothing to do with the drawing up of our specifications and their content. I repeat that the specifications explicitly do not require nuclear capacity, so that is no reason why the Swedes or the French are dropping out.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-04-54-commissie-ic743x.u26	It's about fair competition.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-04-54-commissie-ic743x.u27	It is their own interpretation of a very objective set of specifications. Let me give you another example. In my municipality, I spent a year recording our sports infrastructure in a sort of PPP project designer entrepreneur. It's been a year. The procedure was known. Five companies were invited and only two replied. We have kept one of these companies from being very good in terms of quality. Well, it's the same here. You, and other colleagues, have eaten little cheese on how tenders are conducted, both locally and at federal level. That is the reality. That's what I wanted to give you. That France, Sweden and the State Agency of the United States decide with the Boeing piece not to participate, that's their business. I'm sure the CEOs have a good explanation for getting out of there. That's for sure. You will then interpret that as the truth, but do not believe everything in the newspapers or what CEOs of companies say. Minister, you say that the government will decide what will happen to the letter from France. I believe that this is the right approach and that this will be done outside the whole procedure. Finally, here's what I'm gonna say. The latest experience with France, with the Mirage 5 that we have purchased and which has been in Florennes, was also not a success story. Those planes did not fly for long and the air force was not satisfied either. Let us also bear that in mind before going on that track.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-04-54-commissie-ic743x.u28	Mr Minister, first of all I would like to return to your last words. This is not the first time that I hear you say something a little aggressive and emotional about a representative of France. You have to keep calm in this procedure and it worries me to hear such words from you, in relation to such important issues.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-04-54-commissie-ic743x.u29	Mr Dallemagne, I am a member of this committee, I have to take into account everything I am told, and I cannot express my emotions... I do not understand!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-04-54-commissie-ic743x.u30	I simply ask you to answer the questions in fact. We are asking you about a debate and about extremely important, financial, strategic and major security issues. This procedure could lead to the purchase, without any real choice, of an aircraft from a country which today does not meet at all the primary objective we have set ourselves in the field of defence, which is to participate in the construction of a European defence. That is the crucial political point today. The purchase of a combat aircraft should be a fundamental element of these future European defence and industry. We are engaged in a procedure that could lead us to buy a plane, the Eurofighter. You say it's a consortium of countries, but we only met with the British ambassador. Besides, in the slides they showed us, there was the British flag. The British, who have always opposed European defence and are leaving the European Union. Is it to them that we have to buy a plane today, almost in a forced and forced manner? Or is it the Americans who tell us "America first"? We are all aware of Trump's contempt for the European Union and all its states of mind for NATO. Is it for the Americans that we have to buy a forced and forced plane? From the moment when the procedure, interesting at first, no longer meets the aspirations of Belgium, in such fundamental areas as these, we must ask ourselves whether we can stop it. You have planned it from the outset in the specifications. This procedure can be stopped. Today, the issue is not legal, it is political. Yes or no, let us continue in a procedure that goes straight into the wall and that does not allow us to make a political choice that we consider entirely acceptable and open. That is the question before us and the government today. We must receive an answer in this context. The RfGP foresees – and this is very well – that we can operate this controller, stop this procedure and consider others that respond to the challenges we are facing today. It is true that France has acted by surprise and that its offer comes at the last minute, but I think that we cannot remove it from a back of our hands. This offer, at the political, strategic and will expressed repeatedly by the Prime Minister in recent weeks, could respond to the defence and security challenges of Belgium. I therefore ask, since this is a response of a political nature, that we review the procedure and wonder how Belgium will acquire a combat aircraft that fully meets its strategic policy, without enclosing itself in a procedure which today seriously upsets the country's interests in this field. We will not have any other important opportunities like this to be able to launch a Europe of defence and to ensure that we benefit from a combat aircraft in the context of European defence and the construction of a European industry. Such an opportunity will not be present for much longer. I therefore insist that we be able to analyse this problem in this way. Furthermore, you tell us that the criteria are very detailed and visible and that we can consult them on the site. Although I read these criteria, I do not see this as a very clear and clear guard against decisions that might be biased, because these criteria are essentially qualitative. When, in a tender, the price is only 25 %,...
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-04-54-commissie-ic743x.u31	33 per cent.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-04-54-commissie-ic743x.u32	I regret that I rely on the Finance Inspectorate's note in which 25 per cent is indicated.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-04-54-commissie-ic743x.u33	Mr Dallemagne, before we had this debate, it would have been better if you had read the documents at your disposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-04-54-commissie-ic743x.u34	I'm not arguing. Whether it's 33% or 25% – I have the Finance Inspectorate's note here – it doesn't change anything at all. It is a criterion that remains a minority.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-04-54-commissie-ic743x.u35	Mr Dallemagne, if you had seized the opportunity that I am giving you, it might have changed something. All documents are available on my website. It would have been interesting for you to read what's in it before you had discussions that don't laugh at anything.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-04-54-commissie-ic743x.u36	This does not change anything at all, because these are qualitative criteria which can be widely discussed and which, in my opinion, and contrary to what you suggest, are not absolute safeguards in a procedure which can be perfectly objectivable. I ask once again that we pay close attention to the way in which we deal with this issue. I'm a little surprised. You tell us that this is not a Community problem. I am surprised at the absence of the MR in this discussion. It is important that we keep the major stakes for Belgium and European defence well in sight during this debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-04-54-commissie-ic743x.u37	Madam President, I, for my part, will be much shorter and respect the Rules of Procedure. Respectful, France should have been. Mr Minister, France does not comply with the rules laid down in the invitation to tender. She was clumsy, negligent, even presumptuous. However, the Greens are opposed to this market, for strategic reasons that I am not going to come back to, but also because it assumes a colossal budget of 15 billion over 40 years, which will affect several generations. In this context, the procedure for selecting the apparatus must be competitive, clear and clear. It must be noted that with the withdrawal of Saab, then Boeing, and now, from Rafale, your call for tenders is taking over. It's not taking water legally, it's taking it politically. The competition involves fewer and fewer people. Politically, this invitation to tender is becoming more and more collected. I think that we, the parliamentarians who control the proper implementation of this call for tenders, must organise the hearing of the people who represent these three companies who, at one point, have thrown the glove, in order to know the objective reasons for these decisions. They should tell us, black and white, why they are withdrawing from this market. I hope for you that Eurofighter will not withdraw from the market before the end of the RfGP because then we will have a huge problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-04-54-commissie-ic743x.u38	Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, what I hear here is a bit of the world upside down. The competition is open and transparent today. The specifications were drawn up by the military of the Defense Department, based on the needs and capacities in our country. I can already hear colleagues conclude, in the initial phase, that one particular type of business would start to run. That's a little short. The three companies which have withdrawn or have not submitted a dossier must indicate at what point and why they have done so. To claim that there is no competition is based on few concrete elements. It is quite remarkable that some fellow Members feel that we should justify why people do not register. That's kind of weird. It is an important dossier of EUR 3.5 billion. So there's a lot of money involved. But please stop demagoguery and emopolitics. If you think we shouldn't have fighter planes, come out openly, but stop making false accusations and demagogy. Minister, on the one hand, with regard to the French proposal, it is clear that the letter from the French cannot be regarded as a dossier submitted for the public procurement procedure. In my view, the proposal is practically unrealistic either. It offers few short-term answers. We need the first planes in 2023. In the short term, therefore, the French proposal does not provide an answer. It would, on the other hand, be stupid if we were to classify the French question vertically. In the longer term, French demand is an opportunity to think more deeply, to join the train of European defence and in the longer term to look for a device, capabilities and opportunities, to cooperate more and more effectively in the field of the European defence industry in Europe.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-04-54-commissie-ic743x.u39	Mr Minister, perhaps you would like to answer a few more questions?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-04-54-commissie-ic743x.u40	No, Madam President, I suspect everything has been said. For the report, however, I would like to point out that Mr De Vriendt quoted here what the CEO of Dassault would have said. I have the quote right here in front of me. That is not the case of the RfGP, on the contrary. Let me read it to you. The CEO of the French group Dassault Aviation denounced on Saturday the inclination of a majority of European countries to buy US military equipment, while the European Union is finally beginning to talk about security and take charge of itself. He also pleaded that Belgium should build on the French fighter plane Rafale. Point! That is the quote that was wrongly quoted in this committee by Mr De Vriendt, whom I respect as a Member of Parliament, as talking about nuclear capabilities, preferences and so on. I just wanted to give you this for the report.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-04-54-commissie-ic743x.u41	As President, I would like to comment briefly on Mr Hellings' question to organise hearings with the companies that withdrew. I believe that Mr Hellings is mistaken, because it is the state agencies that are our interlocutors. We have already invited these state agencies to the committee and heard them extensively there. It was not Saab who withdrew, it was the Swedish Government. That was a mistake made by Mr De Vriendt.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-04-54-commissie-ic743x.u42	Minister, last July, the press reported on a project to transfer the Gunfire Museum, owned by National Defence, to the municipality of Brasschaat, in whose territory this museum is located. In this regard, what is our country's oldest range of fire houses and exposes the general public to anti-aircraft campaign equipment and artillery used by our armed forces. In addition, the hangars also house tanks and armoured vehicles with high heritage value. Part of these various pieces belong to the Royal Museum of the Army and History and they were once exhibited in the rooms 1914-1918 and 1940-1945 of the Cinquantenaire Cultural Pole. The aim would be to make the Gunfire Museum more attractive and accessible, as part of a process of transfer of premises to the municipality with the support of the Flemish authorities. This, however, deserves an open and in-depth reflection. These potential projects should not ipso facto induce the transfer of ownership of the federal heritage. Of course, it can remain in Brasschaat under a loan agreement, but obviously the 50th anniversary must remain the centre of gravity of national collections! Minister, can you confirm or reverse the proposed divestiture of the Gunfire Museum without the transfer of heritage belonging to the Royal Museum of the Army and History? What about the return of tanks and artillery to the 50th anniversary compound, particularly the internal court? Is there a timetable for this? I'm starting with my second question. At the decision of the government, the Royal Museum of Army and Military History (MRA) should be subjected to an extensive renovation project, which will require the closure of several rooms. In this regard, I quote the director of the newly created War Heritage Institute: "It is not possible to work with aircraft. We'll have to move them and put them somewhere. It'll be awfully complicated. One of the tracks envisaged, which I am prepared to negotiate with the Brussels Region to avoid all the fears already expressed, would be that of temporary storage in the car park of the Cinquantenaire, under a large tent of protection open to visitors, as has already been done, for example, for the Liège Opera". It is true that the site should be a real puzzle in terms of the organisation and planning of the accessibility of the site. In addition to aircraft, the question of the urban classification by the Brussels Region of certain historic halls, often regarded as museums in the museum, is also raised. Again, I quote the senior official: "Catering something that does not at all resemble what it was originally seems bold to me, especially since, in doing so, they interfere with our management autonomy as a public service dependent on the federal government and create a very curious precedent. From our point of view, the Region is not competent for this." So, Minister, I would like to ask you the following questions. What are the solutions currently available on the table to facilitate the temporary reception of the complete or partial collection of aircraft? Is the scenario of the use of the 50th anniversary car park, as mentioned in the media, the subject of discussions with the various public authorities concerned? As regards the classification of certain rooms operated by the Brussels Region, what are the difficulties which result from this for the renovation of the site and, therefore, for the development of a scenography? Have discussions also started with regional authorities to find pragmatic solutions to this situation that could be appropriate for all stakeholders?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-04-54-commissie-ic743x.u43	Mrs Fernandez Fernandez apologizes. She's gone to the Home Affairs Commission.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-04-54-commissie-ic743x.u44	Madam President, Mr Calomne, as has been made clear in the discussions on the law establishing the World Heritage Institute (WHI), the heritage of the WHI is inalienable and owned by the federal state. The WHI is indeed in talks with the municipality of Brasschaat on the development of the museum. This is also the case in Bastogne. If the project with the municipality of Brasschaat is created, the Gunfire Museum could become a concession site. This means that a third party manages the museum but that the collections remain the property of the WHI and therefore of the federal state. I repeat it for the thousandth time! As for the central site at the 50th anniversary, there is a project to renovate the internal court. This would include a copy of each armoured vehicle used by the Belgian army since 1945. This court must first undergo extensive renovations, including a new sewer system, a new floor covering and, above all, the installation of a roof that would allow the heritage to no longer be exposed to the weather. This work to be carried out by the Régie des Bâtiments cannot begin immediately. In the meantime, the WHI has decided to enhance the internal court and has brought back in the last few months some fifteen armoured vehicles from its Brasschaat site, which will be used for an exhibition "50 years of the Leopard tank" which is scheduled to open next December. The MRA has been operating since 1 May under the WHI dome. A second project to be carried out in the short term is the renovation of the Bordiau Hall. The Régie des Bâtiments completed the preparatory work in early July and the WHI launched a public procurement procedure worth more than two million euros for the museum section. This file is currently at the finance inspector's office. The goal is to complete this project for the commemorations of the end of the Second World War in 2019. The study for the realization of a private/public partnership for the complete renovation of the site of the Cinquantenaire is still in its embryonic phase. The problem of hosting MRA collections during the renovation has yet to be studied in detail. The agencies and institutions concerned will be involved in the renovation of the site. As with each public contract, the terms of reference of the private partnership / public will be published. Finally, as regards the procedure for classifying the historical and technical halls of the MRA, this is a matter for the political management of the Brussels Region and it has expressed, I believe, a willingness to pay for the hall. On 11 September 2017, the Régie des Bâtiments transmitted objections to the decision of the Brussels-Capital Region on the basis of other arguments put forward by the WHI. Politically, I am trying to get an interview with the Minister-President of the Government of the Brussels-Capital Region and, if necessary, the matter could be brought before the Concertation Committee. At the same time, the WHI brought an appeal procedure before the Council of State in order to retain all its rights in the matter. For guns, it's a matter of hours.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-04-54-commissie-ic743x.u45	Minister, thank you for the various elements of your response. Very briefly, I wanted to thank you because you have already replied several times that the collections were inalienable and that they remained the property of the federal state. However, when you read the press, it's not always what some people claim. It was very good to be able to remind him again today in parliament. I think this is important for the clarity of everyone in relation to what can sometimes be conveyed. I take note also that the square courtyard will again welcome an animation pending the completion of the works; it is true that it has been closed to the public for several years. It was a little sad at times because there wasn't much to see. I also hear problems in relation to the second part of my questions about the central site and the dialogue that must necessarily be conducted with the Brussels Region. I take note of the fact that you are trying to have an interview and a dialogue with the Minister-President. If this is not possible, indeed, it may be necessary to refer it to the Consultation Committee, but I hope that a pragmatic solution can be found that satisfies all stakeholders. Indeed, the site of the 50th anniversary and the museum should not be handicapped by measures that would otherwise be taken by another level of power. I think it is in everyone's interest to find a positive and pragmatic solution as soon as possible. I thank you for these last elements of information that were actually current on cannons since you tell me that it is a matter of hours.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-04-54-commissie-ic743x.u46	Minister, this question dates from before the recess. On 17 July the Foreign Ministers met, inter alia, on migration issues and the associated smuggling of people and weapons from Libya. The Belgian ship Louise-Marie is deployed on the Mediterranean and Belgian soldiers were able to save 118 people by the end of June. Will our country participate in Operation Sophia again in the future? If so, under what conditions? Is it possible, in view of the continuing instability in Libya and the absence of a UN mandate, to extend Operation Sophia to Libyan waters? If enlargement is not possible, are you in favour of continuing to participate?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-04-54-commissie-ic743x.u47	Minister, on 25 July, the Council of the European Union extended the mandate for Operation Sophia until 31 December 2018. That decision was taken by the Political and Security Committee (PSC) of the Council of the European Union. The Permanent Representative of Belgium in that body is formally instructed by the Minister for Foreign Affairs. This is normally preceded by a coordination meeting. First of all, was there a coordination meeting prior to that? Was that a meeting in ME6 Executive Board or was the position otherwise coordinated and or communicated? Secondly, who was present at that meeting? Was there anyone from the Defense Department present and or was there a representative from the Defense Department present? What was the position of the Defense Department? Was that position taken by the State Department? If Foreign Affairs has overruled Defense, what justifies the overrule, as the assignment is clearly within the competence of the Defense Department? What was the final instruction to the Permanent Representative? How did the decision of the Political and Security Committee become a decision of the Council of the EU? Did that happen by silent acceptance? If Defense did not agree with the decision of the PVC, why didn't there be a protest?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-04-54-commissie-ic743x.u48	Mr Vandenput, at a practical and operational level, the use of our frigates can be evaluated as positive. The Belgian frigates and their crew have done their work in a professional way and this is appreciated by all partners. At the strategic level, however, it has to be noted that Operation Sophia cannot achieve the stated objectives so far, because the mandate of Operation Sophia................................................................................................................................................................................... Mr Top, on 25 July 2017, the Council of Europe extended the mandate of NAVFORMED Operation Sophia until 31 December 2018 by tacit procedure, the so-called silent procedure. I suspect you are basing yourself on a great error article published on the website knack.be, which has only been online for a few hours. In it was the most unthinkable nonsense. But I'll explain it to you. A silent procedure means that all Member States have not responded, and have therefore responded positively. You ask a number of questions, but you should actually ask them to the Foreign Office. I'm not authorized to give instructions to the Permanent Representative. The decision is one of the Belgian government, expressed by the FPS Foreign Affairs. Given the written nature of the procedure, there was no prior formal meeting. The services of the FPS Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Defence regularly discuss this issue as well. We take the same attitude in this regard. We are absolutely in favour of a European intervention, but today's mandate does not allow us to achieve the objectives. That is also where the first author of the question referred to, as well as the Secretary of State responsible for Asylum and Migration. The Council decision was published in the Official Journal of the European Union. Like a regulation, the decision is a binding legal act in all its provisions and directly applicable without transposition into national law. We must therefore do nothing about this for the rest, but next year we will only see to what extent we will be operational in the Mediterranean, more specifically in the fight against trafficking in human beings, and under what flag.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-04-54-commissie-ic743x.u49	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. It is clear that we are waiting for a new extended UN mandate to be successful, including in the strategic area and not just in the tactical and operational field.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-04-54-commissie-ic743x.u50	In addition, Minister, I have also addressed a similar question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs in order to clarify it. She was also based on the article in knack.be. In recent months, however, questions have been raised about operationality in the field itself, as mentioned by Mr Vandenput. As long as there is no extension of the UN mandate, there will be discussion about operationality. I would like clarification on how we deal with this. I hope to get some more answers from the Foreign Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-04-54-commissie-ic743x.u51	Mr Top, I can only reassure you. The Minister for Foreign Affairs and myself also make the same statements at such a meeting. If we cannot go upstream in the fight against human trafficking, we are indeed, as is often said, more savers than solvers of problems.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-04-54-commissie-ic743x.u52	Madam President, Minister, the tension between North Korea and the United States is increasing. After the UN Security Council imposed new sanctions on the regime in Pyongyang, the North Korean regime threatened with harsh language, to which US President Trump also used threatening rhetoric. North Korea announced that it would launch medium-range missiles at Guam, an American island in the Pacific Ocean. The planned annual joint exercise of the US and South Korea has continued as planned, despite the tense situation and harsh reactions in the past of Pyongyang to those exercises. The fear of a nuclear stand-off is real. The North Korean arsenal is unknown. In the light of these tensions, the US has asked the United Kingdom to provide espionage aircraft so that they can detect a possible nuclear arsenal over North Korea. Minister, can you explain the American demand for the United Kingdom to deploy spy planes over North Korea? Did the United States ask Belgium for funds? If so, what decision did you take? Were other countries addressed with similar questions? The island of Guam does not fall within the territory to which Article 5 of NATO applies. Despite this provision, what is NATO's position on a possible North Korean attack on Guam? What attitude will Belgium and you, as ministers, adopt in this regard? Those questions date from August 11th. In the meantime, a lot of things have happened. The situation remains tense. North Korea has already tested bombs, leading to a condemnation of the EU, the UN, NATO and Belgium. In the United States, Foreign and Defence Ministers, Tillerson and Mattis, and President Trump are giving other messages. The Foreign and Defence Ministers indicate that there are open channels of communication, but President Trump does not want them to put their energy into it. How do you estimate the tensions between the United States and North Korea? What are the possible questions about a Belgian NATO engagement in this regard?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-04-54-commissie-ic743x.u53	Madam President, Mr Bogaert, a possible US request to the United Kingdom for espionage aircraft is, in that case, an American initiative that we are not aware of and in which we are not involved. I don't have any more information either. The US has also not asked us any questions about the use of resources in the context of the problems in North Korea. Indeed, according to Article 6 of the NATO Treaty, the island of Guam does not belong to the territory for which Article 5 can be invoked. In the event of a possible attack on the island of Guam, NATO will therefore have to meet in the North Atlantic Council to determine a position that will have to be adopted unanimously by the 29 allies. So NATO can only take a position if the 29 allies agree on this. At the moment, however, NATO's position vis-à-vis North Korea is very clear and unambiguous, as all nuclear and missile tests are a violation of the UN Security Council resolutions and a threat to international peace and security. You're asking me about my personal assessment of the problems. I believe there is a real security risk. I'm taking titles like "We're close to war" not light up. I therefore hope that Rex Tillerson and my colleague Mattis will succeed in de-escalating the matter through their channels. An armed conflict on that scale, with the people behind the buttons, is really not desirable and I hope that the conflict that Tillerson and Mattis are calling for and what I believe they are working on can be successful.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-04-54-commissie-ic743x.u54	Minister, I share your view that, unfortunately, this is a real risk. This issue will require special care in the near future and beyond.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-04-54-commissie-ic743x.u55	Madam President, Minister, following the evolution of technology and the preponderance of digital tools in strategic sectors of our societies, NATO member countries have begun gradually to develop a new component, comparable to the armies of land, air and navy, namely a "cyber-army". In fact, in recent years a new battlefield has been established on the web and computer servers, with acts of piracy and espionage operations of a large and increasingly advanced scale. In the face of this situation, the federal government has taken on a number of responsibilities, like our transatlantic allies. This is evidenced in particular by the "national emergency plan" adopted last April by the Centre for Cybersecurity Belgium (CCB). The latter is also supported by a cooperation agreement with NATO allowing mutual assistance and the mobilization of specialized teams in the event of cyberattacks. In order to meet this challenge, a recruitment process has been initiated in recent months to provide the armed forces with a contingent of cyber experts. So far, 30 job offers have been released, but the press has echoed a goal to hire no fewer than 200 new IT soldiers in the long run. They would have as a priority the task of defending military infrastructure, such as weapons systems and communication centres. Minister, what is the current status of the cyber expert recruitment process? Have soldiers benefited from a specific training process and are they already fully operational? What measures are planned by the end of the year to continue this recruitment effort? What exactly are the specialisations targeted in terms of training and work experience? Finally, are joint formations planned as part of our NATO engagement? If so, could you provide us with the content, within the bounds of the Defence Secret?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-04-54-commissie-ic743x.u56	Mr Calomne, the details of the current capabilities and the results by field are classified. Cyber experts follow a strict and demanding training plan, which the Defence Staff reassesses annually, in order to keep it in line with technological evolution, which seems to me quite logical. Defence's strategic vision will eventually include an envelope for the engagement of 200 cyber experts. Defence will therefore continue to recruit in the coming years for the development of this capability. This year again, a second recruitment process, via the Selor, will be launched, as well as an Egov Select procedure. Defence favours the recruitment of profiles with generic, directly operational technical knowledge, which can then, provided they have received training and experience while working, evolve to a specialist position. Defence is actively involved in two NATO initiatives, namely, participation in the Cooperative Cyber Defence Centre of Excellence (CDC COE), with an expert in Estonia, which gives us access to the various exercises and trainings, and the other project, Multinational Cyber Defence Education and Training (MNCDE&T), aimed at carrying out joint training in different areas of cyber expertise.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-04-54-commissie-ic743x.u57	Minister, thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-04-54-commissie-ic743x.u58	Bulgaria and Romania recently recorded that they would replace their frigates. Bulgaria replaces its old Belgian frigates with two new ships. Romania would purchase two to four new ships. The proposed replacement procedure for both countries is almost identical to the replacement procedure for our ships. The more countries could join Belgium and the Netherlands, the lower the cost of development could be. In addition, a wider cooperation or joint procurement framework may form part of a European project with scope for further cooperation in the future. That is why I would have liked to have an answer to the following questions. Our country has every financial interest in involving several partners in the development phase of the new frigates. Moreover, such cooperation could be part of a fine bottom-up European cooperation that you have always been a strong supporter of. Have you already had contact with your Bulgarian, Romanian or Dutch colleagues to discuss such proposals or possibilities? Have you had any other discussions or efforts to open the replacement procedure to other European countries apart from the examples I have just mentioned? If so, which countries were contacted for this purpose? Do you have a view on which countries wish to purchase new maritime equipment in the short term?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-04-54-commissie-ic743x.u59	I will answer your questions in reverse order. As a result of the preparation of the strategic vision, it was already examined whether other NATO countries and their partners could be identified with virtually simultaneous plans for the construction of frigates. This is, by the way, the starting point for any major programme. There are plans for the renewal of frigates in Australia, Canada, Germany, Spain, France, Italy, Great Britain and the United States. On the other hand, we have not heard from Romania or Bulgaria. Neither the Belgian Defence nor the binational project team was contacted by these countries for possible cooperation. The possibilities for international cooperation were communicated in various fora, including EU-NATO conferences, both by myself and by the representatives of Belgian and Dutch Defence. The binational replacement programme of the M-fregates is open to participation by other partner countries as far as Belgium and the Netherlands are concerned. I would like to point out that the word frigate covers many loads. There were concrete talks with Germany, but Germany, for example, has much bigger frigates in mind than we do. Britain has recently proposed a new kind of frigate: two in one, multipurposefregat, off the shelf, quite cheap and more destroyer than frigate. Fregat as such is a difficult word. Therefore, cooperation is ideal if the deployment profile is identical for the future platform and if each country agrees with the technical specifications and, not least, with the acquisition strategy. This does not mean that there is no cooperation for sub-technologies. We may not be building frigates with Germany, but there is a great deal of interest in developing the command system together. The same applies to mine-fighting capacity, in which we strive for identical ships for the Netherlands and Belgium, but in which many other countries are interested in a number of mine-fighting techniques, which they could use on their type of ships. When we talk about ships, Mr Top, it is important to know that the hull itself is only a very small part of the final, complete system.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-04-54-commissie-ic743x.u60	Thank you for your reply, Minister. You have discussed the German frigates, which do not meet our wishes for our frigates or the Dutch-Belgian proposal, and the question to the English. I do not know what stage Romania and Bulgaria are in, for example, now, but I would continue to ask, in the context of European cooperation, what kind of ship they want and what kind of ship they want. We never know to what extent cooperation with these countries can lead to a more financially sound proposal for our ships.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-04-54-commissie-ic743x.u61	Madam President, Minister, this question dates back a while ago. I received the signal from the Defense Department that soldiers of the support units are now also being deployed in the context of the Homeland operation, including being designated to ensure the guard. Apparently, these include medical component soldiers, who are licensed ambulance workers and recognized aid provider for the FPS Public Health. Mr Minister, to what extent can there be consequences if a recognised aid worker, who is therefore wearing a 112 badge, has to shoot someone first and then provide statutory care? Is that possible and has it been investigated? Could that have legal consequences?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-04-54-commissie-ic743x.u62	Madam President, Mr Top, there are no specific legal provisions and therefore no legal consequences for the use of members of the Medical Component, such as ambulances and recognised emergency workers, within the framework of Operation Vigilant Guardian. The obligation to do so is important to provide the necessary care after the use of force applies to all military personnel deployed under Operation Vigilant Guardian and not only to any aid workers. All military personnel are therefore obliged, as far as they can, to use assistance in the event of injuries.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-04-54-commissie-ic743x.u63	Minister, you say that there are no legal provisions and therefore no consequences. I hope that's true. I hope that we will not be confronted with the fact that a paramedic would suddenly be accused of having to do two things, namely shoot someone, not in the function of a paramedic, but as a carrier of the 112 badge. Given that there are doubts about this in defence personnel, I would like to call for this to be made clear, as you have told me today, so that there is no unnecessary doubt about the defence or the performers.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-04-54-commissie-ic743x.u64	Mr Minister, this too is a short question. In a letter to the House of Representatives, the Dutch Demissionary Cabinet states that the missions in Mali, Afghanistan, Lithuania and off the coast of Africa will be extended. In addition, the Netherlands will also contribute to the fight against IS. From next year onwards, F-16s will be deployed again. I have a few questions about this. Have you been in contact with Minister Hennis-Plasschaert, who is resigning, about the deployment of these F-16s? What appointments were made? Will the Netherlands effectively take over the task from 1 January 2018? For how long will the Netherlands record this commitment in 2018?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-04-54-commissie-ic743x.u65	Mr Top, within the context of Belgian-Dutch cooperation in the fight against IS, it was agreed between the two countries earlier this year that the Belgian F-16's mission would eventually continue until the end of 2017 and that our F-16's will then be repaid by the Dutch. The Dutch Defence Staff is working on the concrete planning of this commitment in close consultation with ours. After all, there are a number of things to hand over. Dutch political decision-making is in the final phase. The letter to the Chamber is here. On the basis of the agreements made, the Defence Staff, like me, assumes that this will continue effectively and that they will be deployed for one year. The consequences of Mrs Hennis-Plasschaert's dismissal are still unclear. There is a suspension of operations due to fatal accidents during training in Mali last year. I still assume this will continue. Either way, our people will be back home by Christmas.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-04-54-commissie-ic743x.u66	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. This could be enough for today. We will follow up the Dutch situation to see if there are any other consequences.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-04-54-commissie-ic743x.u67	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Lalieux's 20391 was postponed. Mr Van Hees is absent. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Vercamer's 20602 question was converted into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Flahaux's 20618 question was also converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-04-54-commissie-ic743x.u68	Madam President, Minister, I quote: 'Why do our soldiers help the condemned Gabon?' That is a fair question from my colleague Hendrik Bogaert in an opinion piece on the website knack.be.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-04-54-commissie-ic743x.u69	On 14 September 2017, the European Union expressed opposition to Gabon's regime, which has suffered a humanitarian crisis since the presidential elections in August 2016, and to the doubts raised about the democratic conduct of those elections. The result is violence, intimidation of the opposition, attacks on freedom of the press and arbitrary arrests. The European Union's signal is clear. The Gabonese authorities are being asked to allow peaceful demonstrations and opposition. The current behaviour of the Gabonese government was strongly condemned. Well, one day later, the Defense announced that 800 Belgian soldiers would leave for Gabon. In the meantime, a few of them have returned, to train there together with the soldiers of the regime. Two NH90 devices, three C-130 devices and two A109 helicopters are also transferred. The question is, of course, what signal does the Belgian Defence Minister give in this way? Is it moral to justify sending our soldiers to Gabon for training? Is it not better to cooperate in the establishment of democratic institutions and the rule of law or to strengthen civil society? I quote my colleague Hendrik Bogaert again, who says: "Minister Vandeput, with all due respect, I understand that we need extensive training areas, but take our boys out of that moral wasp nest and let them train in the democratic countries that do deserve our support. We are responsible not only for what we are doing, but also for what we are not doing. In such a country, pretending nothing is going on makes us passively complicit in a hopeless spiral of corruption, of economic and social decline. How can we still debate with others about respecting the insights of the Enlightenment, when we are on the wrong side in 2017? How credible can we promote our universal values when they only apply on our own territory? I can only join the remarks of my colleague Bogaert. So, Minister, I would like to tell you about this situation. Firstly, did you receive the EU resolution on 14 or 15 September? Secondly, on the basis of what criteria did you consider that the training could still take place? Thirdly, was this situation explained and discussed at the Council of Ministers?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-04-54-commissie-ic743x.u70	Madam President, Minister, a day after the European Parliament adopted a resolution condemning the regime in Gabon for intimidation of the opposition, torture and the disappearance of people, 800 of our Belgian soldiers left to train there with soldiers of the regime. Some will say that our soldiers must be able to train somewhere in climatic conditions that are not ours. But is it a good decision just in that country and just now to help train soldiers? Even though defence diplomacy is also defined by some in the United Kingdom, one assumes that one is on the road to promoting democracy. Can we make this credible here? De definitie van defence diplomacy luidt als volgt: “The United Kingdom identified defence diplomacy as one of the military's eight defence missions and aims to dispel hostility, build and maintain trust and assist in the development of democratically accountable armed forces to make a significant contribution to conflict prevention and resolution.” This is a quote from the UK Ministry of Defence Policy Paper n° 1. Not so long ago, an important discussion took place in our Parliament on whether someone could be held for 48 hours or 72 hours administratively. Eminent colleagues of opposition and majority carefully weighed the arguments on a scale. According to the European resolution, the Gabonese regime has less difficulty with this. This resolution was also supported by several majority parties from the Belgian Government. More than 800 people were arrested for political reasons and some are held there for months. The houses of opposition members are attacked and the leaders of the opposition sometimes cannot leave the country. Trade, provide development aid, contribute to the establishment of democratic institutions and strengthen civil society, all seem to be fields of work in which we can better distinguish ourselves than in the joint exercises that will take place there. What is our policy in this respect? No one will dispute that it is not easy to find perfect democratic regimes in Africa, but from what point does this government say that there is no cooperation? What are the criteria used? We have also said in other African countries that it was enough and we did not participate in it. My question is what good criteria are then to say: stop, we do not come to practice with you. That's the moral line of separation I'm looking for.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-04-54-commissie-ic743x.u71	The resolution was published through the European Union's regular channels of communication. As far as I am aware, this resolution did not contain any restrictions on the Belgian Defence. The European Union Global Strategy, the EUGS, adopted in 2016, advocates, inter alia, the development of more resilience and a more pragmatic approach by the EU in its relations with partner states such as Gabon. Moreover, the Cotonou Agreement of 2000 underlines the political dialogue between the EU and the signatory States, including Gabon. It includes capacity building, conflict prevention and conflict resolution. Impulse decisions such as the cessation of a training mission while the military are already on the tarmac do not serve such a dialogue. Gabon also participates in the UN mission in the Central African Republic under the name UN MISCA and plays a role in the peace process in that particularly unstable area. The participation during a month of the Belgian Light Brigade in the Tropical Storm operation should therefore be seen in the perspective as an attempt to promote regional stability. The training that we carry out together with our international partners such as France and the United States who are also present there, one of which is also EU Member State and is aware of the resolution, and is focused on interoperability, was already included in the planning more than a year ago. So it's not like I look at the planning from day to day and decide to send out 800 soldiers for training. Something like this is planned a year in advance. You know that, Mr Top, because you yourself proposed to visit Gabon last year, if I recall correctly, at the request of a friend of your municipality's paracommand. In addition, some detachments were already on the spot prior to the announcement of the resolution. Training activities should not be presented to the Council of Ministers, Mr Bogaert. I hope you have some understanding of the decision-making in relation to training activities. I am not actively involved in this as a minister either. From a purely Belgian point of view, because I understand what you're saying, although it was short notice, the exercise was also important. The recent unilateral suspension of military cooperation by the Democratic Republic of the Congo called for what are the main tasks of the Belgian Defence Department, the continued existence of our African expertise. As you know, Belgian Defence has three core tasks: collective defence, collective security and the protection of Belgians abroad. In the context of this third core task, it is extremely important to maintain contacts and expertise in the region. I am talking about the non-combatant evacuation operations (NEO). The current security situation in the Great Lakes region may deteriorate rapidly and may require immediate engagement. The cooperation between Defence and the Gabonese army therefore enables Belgium, on the one hand, to maintain the African expertise at the level, on the other, to have a base for possible future non-combatant evacuation operations.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-04-54-commissie-ic743x.u72	Madam President, Minister, I too am beginning with the answer you gave to my third question. You say that this did not come to the Council of Ministers because it is about training. I want to make the next thought. If I'm right, it's a training of our Belgian military together with Gabonese military.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-04-54-commissie-ic743x.u73	And France and the United States.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-04-54-commissie-ic743x.u74	We are here in Belgium, and I want to judge with honour and conscience the humanitarian and moral intervention. I wonder whether it would be wise today, in view of what the EU resolution says about the risks and what is going on in Gabon, to organise another training there, regardless of the opinion of our colleagues from France and the USA. It is up to them to judge. Is it still moral for us to train with that regime? You say that the European resolution did not prohibit us from carrying out that mission. That is true, but my thinking is only for humanitarian and moral reasons. Have we done the right thing to have training there at the moment? Today I got the answer. Apparently, you think it's possible. The border has shifted again for a bit.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-04-54-commissie-ic743x.u75	Mr President, Mr Top, I have tried to make it clear to you, but when you say this, you also say that we should forget about the third core task of the NEO. That's what's in there. The third key task is the protection of Belgians abroad. Away from Gabon means that it is done with the protection of Belgians in Congo.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-04-54-commissie-ic743x.u76	No, it's about him being trained here with the military of Gabon's regime. That's what it's about. I shall table a motion for a resolution on this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-04-54-commissie-ic743x.u77	I have great sympathy for a number of arguments put forward by the Minister. I had already included it in my question: we have to train somewhere for the valuable activities that exist. My question is not the same as Mr Top's. I asked for the right cutting line. You use arguments that are valid and correct, but at some point they will no longer be correct, and we agree on that. Suppose the situation there escalates further, that there is great negative publicity about that country and the authoritarian regime, if I may say so, always goes on. There is a moral point where we will no longer train together because it somehow binds us to those people. I wonder where that point is? You answer that the DOD decides on this, not yourself. However, we agree that there can be a point where everyone says that it would go too far to do a training there on the spot. I agree with your argument that it is short notice to call this off, which is a valid argument. I agree that the EU resolution does not state that there should be no training there. We will then, of course, take a legalistic stance. Since Catalonia, we have known that Europe has taken legalistic positions, on which we do not always agree. Sometimes we think there's something more going on. When people are battered out of a polling station, it is not enough to point out that the referendum was not possible under the Constitution. The fact that Europe has not banned the mission is correct but must be interpreted with the necessary nuance. Training activities may be decided outside the Council of Ministers. In the policy paper, I see the intention in this respect to consult with Foreign Affairs, Defence and Development Cooperation as soon as the situation threatens to escalate. I am not saying that our views are opposed. I don't think so. From a certain point on, I think this is starting to get completely out of hand. If you read the resolution, you will have to ask yourself whether we are training in such a country, or whether the resolution is not entirely correct. It's not about minor crimes. The tone of my question was about finding the right intersection point. I hope and assume that the government will be apprehended if the situation gets worse. I believe that the majority parties should sit around the table at that time. On Twitter I was asked in a response in which country we could still train. I don't want to be biased. I suppose it's hard to find a kosher country.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-04-54-commissie-ic743x.u78	I think this is a very important debate. You are talking about the triangle and cooperation with Foreign Affairs and Development Cooperation. It is effective that our people sit together every Monday. A PolMil meeting is held every week where such matters are discussed. We have a key mission to protect the interests of Belgians abroad. At the moment when we were thrown out of Congo with our clicks and clicks, we must have alternatives to intervene in case of necessity. That is what needs to be trained. In the past, we had permanent sites in Congo from which, if an intervention was needed, the plans could be realised and rolled out. This is no longer possible because of Congo's unilateral withdrawal. The question then arises, and I would also like to point out this with regard to Mr Top O'Brien, which alternatives exist. Just tell me where we can prepare such operations, where we can do what we can to carry out one of our three core tasks of defence. There are choices to be made.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-04-54-commissie-ic743x.u79	Madam President, I have the right to reply, as the last word is for Parliament. Minister, I think your argument is correct if you call for alternatives. However, we both agree that, morally speaking, there will be no more room at some point. Things could escalate even further, putting us in a position where we feel it is necessary to defend European values but to descend in such a way that it is no longer possible to do so. So I think your argument is correct, but we agree that it will stop at some point. We may end up in the moral position where we have to say we're sorry, but we can't train anywhere in Africa anymore. I think that is rather bold, but we must note that we can no longer train in any country, in any country with such climatic conditions, whether or not close to Congo. Say no more, I'd say. That means a few things when we have to establish that. However, it must not be an argument to push us into a position as I have described in my question. I understand that you say that we are not in that position yet, but if it is really a moral wasp nest at some point, then I think we should draw our conclusions. I assume that this will be done, if necessary, with all the parties in the government.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-04-54-commissie-ic743x.u80	At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. A motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr Alain Top and reads as follows: "The Chamber, President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). and the reply of the Minister for Defence, responsible for the civil service, asks the Minister of Defence - undertake to dissolve the military operation in Gabon, - undertake to take into account at all times humanitarian rights and the application of these rights by a regime before sending military personnel for training or deployment in that country." A motion for recommendation was tabled by Mr. Alain Top and reads as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the inquiry of Mr Alain Top and the response of the Minister of Defence, in charge of the Public Service, asks the Minister of Defence - undertake to cease the military operation in Gabon, - undertake to take into consideration at all times humanitarian rights and their application by the regime of a country before sending military personnel to them for training or deployment missions." A simple motion was tabled by Mr Peter Buysrogge and Mr Hendrik Bogaert. A simple motion was tabled by Messrs. Peter Buysrogge et Hendrik Bogaert. The motions will be voted on later. The meeting's over. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-04-54-commissie-ic743x.u81	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Dallemagne's 20643 question was converted into a written question. The same applies to his questions. 20867 and 20868.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-04-54-commissie-ic743x.u82	Madam President, Minister, on 7 September the EU Defence Ministers held a cyber security exercise at European level in the Estonian capital Tallinn at their informal meeting. Under the name EU Cyber Security 2017, coordination at the political level within the EU Member States and cooperation with NATO in the event of a cyber attack was surveyed. Later exercises would focus on more technical aspects of cyber defense within the EU. This initiative was a first and anything but superfluous, given the continuing threat of cyber attacks to which our country is exposed. You participated in this simulation as Secretary of Defense. I have the following questions. Can you explain to me the course of the exercise and its results and conclusions, specifically as regards our country? What are the pain points that you will take into account? Do you believe that the Belgian Defense Department is adequately equipped for a cyber-attack scenario? What initiatives do you think you should take to ensure cyber security in Belgium? What investments do you think are needed to optimise our security and preparedness in this area? Can you explain cooperation at European level? Finally, can you tell me the state of play and prospects regarding the announced cyber army?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-04-54-commissie-ic743x.u83	Madam President, Mr Yüksel, the European Cyber Security 2017 exercise was what is called a tabletop cyber exercise, focusing on strategic choices and concerns at European ministerial level.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-04-54-commissie-ic743x.u84	A hypothetical hybrid crisis in which the cyber component was very important served as an introduction to raise awareness and fuel the discussions with the aim of drawing up strategic guidelines for European coordination and crisis communication during similar incidents and to give a better explanation to Defence Ministers. We have taken advantage of the exercise to emphasise specifically the importance of the mutual exchange of information. It was also unanimously concluded that cooperation between the EU and NATO in the field of cyber security and resilience is necessary and that further efforts should be made on the basis of existing policies and agreements. Defence is a highly technology-based organisation that is highly dependent on the cyber environment, and should therefore be able to provide an adequate response to cyber attacks. Additional specialised protection against advanced cyber threats, expertise to respond adequately to cyber incidents and support military operations from the cyber domain are the mandate of military cyber capacity under construction that, as you know, has been highlighted in the 2030 strategic vision as one of the key priorities for Defence. National cybersecurity is an interdepartmental responsibility coordinated by the Cybersecurity Centre Belgium. Recently, a national cyber-emergency plan was adopted that sets out a roadmap for the departments involved during cyber crises. The expertise of the Defence Department can be used if necessary. Defence is currently working with other partners within the EDA, the European Defence Agency, and the Cyber Defence project team and more specifically in three pooling and sharing projects in the domain of cyber ranges, cyber defence training and exercise support and a research and development project to detect advanced malware intrusions. In addition, Defence also participates in the biennial Cyber Europe exercise organised by the European Union.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-04-54-commissie-ic743x.u85	Mr Minister, such an operation could be interesting to exchange information. Also in the field of cyber security, the Belgian Defence has to be involved in recent developments, in view of the things that are coming towards us. When it comes to cyber security in Belgium, Defence can play an important role. You must support such projects, and I am counting on them.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-04-54-commissie-ic743x.u86	Minister, last summer De Morgen published an interview with Eline Westra, researcher at the NGO Airwars. In that interview, Mrs Westra dropped that Belgium may be involved in two air strikes in Iraq involving civilian deaths. Those air strikes were discussed several times. At the end of August, Airwars sent you a letter as Minister. On 26 September the members of the committee received a copy of this. Have you already answered Airwars' letter? I will not quote from the letter, because you have received it yourself. If so, what was your answer? If not, when will you answer the letter? Can you explain the Belgian presence in the field at the time of the incidents in committee, should there be any change in this respect compared to what has been given so far?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-04-54-commissie-ic743x.u87	Mr Top, the last question can count, because you are either too early or too late. It's one of both. Airwars raises incidents that have been closed before. This is usually reserved for cucumber time in the press, but I will give you an answer, as I have always done in the past. Tell yourself whether you have just missed the holiday or whether you are already ahead of the coming autumn holiday. Of course, we have formulated an answer to the letter from Airwars. That letter referred to a parliamentary debate and asked for an independent and impartial inquiry. I replied that we did so some time ago by entrusting the investigation to the competent magistrate. I assume that an investigation by a magistrate may be called independent and impartial. He examined the facts cited and held that neither the Belgian law nor international humanitarian law nor the policies were infringed. The parquet has also made its findings public. In short, in a hearing on 22 March 2017, it was explained in extreme detail that there is a series of checks and balances in air operations and that those control mechanisms have worked. There has therefore been an investigation by an independent body and that has decided that everything has been done correctly. That is also what I have answered to Airwars.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-04-54-commissie-ic743x.u88	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. About the holiday period, it may also be interesting to inform you that invitations to committee meetings may be announced sufficiently in advance. That was never the case in those cases. If people are not informed until 10.30 a.m., it is impossible to get by public transport in Brussels in good time. I also think it is from your reply that I conclude that no new cases have come to light between April and now and that you have informed Airwars of this in such a way.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-04-54-commissie-ic743x.u89	Mr Top, Airwars refers to the same operations. I was especially allergic to the fact that Airwars always retrieves the same things from the past during holidays, when there is no other news. I did not refer in any other way to your highly valued commitment to the committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-04-54-commissie-ic743x.u90	I just wanted to make sure it was about the same incidents and no other cases had been added.
