ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic660x.u1	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Clarinval's 17644 was converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic660x.u2	Madam Minister, this question is put in answer to written question No. 183 showing that Flanders is already much more committed to day hospitalization than Wallonia. Mrs Fonck, we have already talked about the fact that other Länder would be doing worse in other areas. You referred to antibiotics at the time. Those figures have also reached me recently, and Wallonia appears to be doing worse, but this is completely out of the question. Back to day hospitalization. In Flanders, too, much more is being devoted to this. There are a percentage of more interventions in daily hospitalization in Flanders comparing at the south of the language border. Recently, a KCE report was added which points out that in general a lot of extra money could be saved by using even more on day hospitalization. One of the obstacles to this is the existence of a list of interventions eligible for day hospitalization, for which hospitals receive a bonus. That list wouldn't do. For example, there are interventions that can be carried out today in hospitalization, but which are not on that list. One example is removing the gallbladder without complications. Since hospitals do not receive a bonus, they often opt for a classic recording. Why don't you edit that list? Isn't that possible, beyond the larger reform of hospital funding that you are working on and in which we fully support you? Can we not take steps in a simple way without having to wait for years?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic660x.u3	Minister, as part of the hospital reform, you have announced your intention to increase the number of day surgery operations. The KCE, which has been asked in this case, has just submitted its report, which points to a marked disparity in the number of surgeries which are already taking place mainly in day hospitals. I am thinking in particular of operations such as cataract extraction, the removal of tonsils or intervention on the carpal canal. These differences of practice obviously raise questions. Minister, for the authors of the report, the current method of funding does not encourage day surgery. They point to a complex and inconsistent system, based on lists of interventions that can be performed in day surgery and which they consider obsolete. The KCE therefore recommends updating these lists and reviewing the entire funding system using a single and transparent scheme. What are you planning on doing about this in the hospital reform that is currently under way? Are you considering reviewing these lists of day surgery procedures? If yes, how and by whom will this revision be carried out? Is a broad consultation of the actors in the field planned for this purpose in the near future?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic660x.u4	Minister, day surgery is the name of the surgical operations after which the patient can leave the day of admission to the health care facility. The Federal Centre of Expertise for Health Care (KCE) recently published a report on day surgery in Belgium. It appears in this report that day surgery could be better used and more frequently. The KCE has thus identified some structural obstacles that reduce its effectiveness, including the way in which this type of surgery is funded. Minister, what is your analysis of this KCE report? What are the options for improvement proposed by the KCE?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic660x.u5	Madam President, we did indeed need the study of the Centre of Knowledge to see what measures should be taken. It was an interesting report from the KCE. It was confirmed once again that the financing of our hospitals and the regulation is very complex, but there are also obstacles to making the best choice for the patient. It's about the patient having to have a classic hospitalization, while for his or her case day surgery might well happen. That is why we have rightly asked the study to find out what direction we can continue to work; all this in the wider context of the reform of the hospital landscape and hospital funding. We also receive a number of examples of interventions from the KCE, which show that there is still room for further growth in day surgery in Belgium. A number of major differences have also been identified. It is not so clear that there would generally be more day surgery in Flanders than in Wallonia. It differs not only from surgery to surgery, but also from discipline to discipline and from hospital to hospital. It is a fact that there are great differences between the disciplines of the different hospitals. There are currently financial barriers to encouraging day surgery. You gave an example from the report, namely the removal without complications of the gallbladder. In other countries, this procedure is more often performed in day surgery than in Belgium. It should be noted that there is no BMF funding or daily package 1 to 7 for the hospital as part of this operation. That's what I call an obstacle. The recommendations of the KCE report were noted. Currently, there is a consultation with administrations, both with the Public Health FPS and with INAMI, to examine what measures will be taken in the short to medium term to stimulate day surgery. Legally, it doesn't have to fit into the hospital reform, but it's ultimately a piece of the whole puzzle. All other planned reforms must be taken into account. We'll continue to do so. It is about interventions in which the safety and quality of the procedure are primordial for the patient. In view of the comfort of being able to go home, the individual situation of the people must always be looked at. Older people are sometimes alone and so on. We must pay due attention to this.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic660x.u6	Madam Secretary, I am pleased that your administration and you are sitting together. I do not know at what time a result is possible, but I take it from your answer that there is no need to wait for the full reform of hospital funding, although of course it fits in. I will certainly ask questions about how far the administration is going to solve that problem, so that the government can save even more. I heard you say that in Flanders there is no longer any use of day hospitalization. I formally contradict that with the figures you have given me in question. 183. This shows that out of the total number of interventions one in four in Flanders is already in daily hospitalization and one in five in Wallonia. It is clear that Flanders is more committed to this than Wallonia and that there is still work to be done there.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic660x.u7	Madam President, it is always interesting to analyse the evolution of the health system in our country, its quality and that, on the basis of figures that put the effectiveness of the communities in competition with each other. I don't have medical training, but I'm still under arrest. But it's certainly genetic in some people's minds and I can't upset them or make them change their minds. Thank you, Minister, for your response to a report that you share the concern to increase, if possible, this type of daytime intervention with safety and quality assurance elements that you have highlighted, perhaps also to adapt to those who are undergoing these interventions. You also said that you had started a consultation (this has just been recalled) with your administrations. I will look forward to your conclusions. If you don't come back to us, in the coming weeks, we'll come back to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic660x.u8	Madam President, Minister, thank you. I will not make it a Community matter. I will see, as you and as reported in the KCE report, the interest in developing these paths, which I also share. These leads, as you said, must go hand in hand with quality health care in hospitals that will be able to accommodate this type of service or already do so. I already see this as an interesting lead in the reform of the hospitals that you are considering and that I do not know how to be the easiest. I'll wait for the results you can offer us at this level, actors and Health FPS together.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic660x.u9	I would also like to say that, at the beginning of the legislature, we rightly asked for a number of studies to be made available for an objectification, a comparison with what is developing abroad in terms of daily hospitalization. These studies have been asked by us to the Knowledge Centre, to have supporting scientific and objective data, to see if our compass is pointing in the right direction and what and where the obstacles are on the ground. That is a very interesting study, and we can give you that link, Madam President, so that Members can read it too, which may have escaped the attention of some. This will certainly be further discussed in the measures we are taking, but also in the whole of the recasting of our hospital landscape.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic660x.u10	Madam Minister, in reply to my oral question No. 16340 on the standard-setting and financing of care staff in the health care institutions, you have provided me with a very clear list. I would like to thank you specifically for this of the number of nurses financed per service and of the real bestaffin. You also noticed: the real bestaffin is much higher than the standardaffining. You added, however, that the difference is partly due to several agreements concluded in the early 1990s and more recently, which provided for additional staff, for example through the social Maribel. Can you supplement the table you gave me with the exact number of VTEs and VTEs per bed that are financed by the BFM on top of the standard bestaffin so that we get a complete picture?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic660x.u11	As I have already said, additional hospital care staff have been provided at various times in previous years, i.e. on top of the basic staffing. The main expansions for the care staff on bed financed through the budget over the past decades are the following. By a ministerial decision of 28 November 1990 on the increase in staff benefits from 1 June 1991, one full-time equivalent was added to every 30 approved beds, which are all beds excluding those with certificate letters K, Sp. In 1994 and 1997 there was an increase only for the K-service. In 1999, one full-time equivalent was added for the organisation of playful activities and one for psychosocial support per approved E-service or pediatrician. In 1998, 0.5 full-time equivalents per 30 recognized C-, D-, E- and H-beds were added for the mobile teams. In 1999, a ministerial decision for the mobile teams established that 0.5 full-time equivalents per 30 recognized C-, D-, E- and H-beds were added. The KB of 2002 was again mobile teams. The first phase was launched as a pilot study in 2008. In the second phase in 2009, 0.5 full-time equivalents were added per 30 beds of each category. The final phase took place in January 2011, with another 0.5 equivalent for 30 beds added. As regards the 2002 Royal Decree, the 2011 mini-agreement added national 125 full-time equivalents for mobile teams. Its implementation was administrative or logistical assistance to the care units, night care professionals, maintenance staff. The scheme started on 1 January 2011. Then there was the social agreement 2005-2010, with additional staff for the operating quarters based on the number of hospital rooms financed at that time. There were also 0.5 full-time equivalents for hospitals with less than five operating rooms, one for hospitals between five and ten operating rooms and 1.5 for a hospital in the case of more than ten operating rooms financed. One half- or full-time nurse or nursing staff per 60 beds was also added for the nightequipes. I'll give you the list. It is difficult to make the sum because not all the schemes came into force simultaneously. As you can see, the social agreements have been working on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic660x.u12	Madam Secretary, thank you for your very full answer. Moreover, on behalf of all my fellow Members, I should like to say that you usually provide very comprehensive answers, which we can work with. I'll fill out my list. On the basis of the full list, with your additions, I have to check whether there is still a big difference between the real bestaffing and the standardaffing. There's always gonna be a difference. I will come back to that when I have mapped out the exact difference. I recall that you believe that, since the real bestaffin is greater than the bestaffining standard, it is, in part, unnecessary to raise the bestaffining standard. Of course it is good that hospitals invest in additional care staff. However, I believe that they should also be rewarded for quality through, among other things, the use of care staff. That is why I will certainly continue to work to ensure that adequate attention is paid to this in the reform of hospital funding. Hospitals that use care personnel should be rewarded, albeit in the form of raising standards, albeit through an indirect proxy such as quality. We will certainly continue to support your reform.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic660x.u13	Madam Secretary, this government and you as Minister are working on keeping the medical bill affordable for the patient and our social security in general. I think this is one of the spearheads of this government, which I, as a youngster, strongly support and support. One of the measures contributing to this is the use of cheap or cheapest prescription. This week I read in the newspaper that the brands in the supermarkets are so much cheaper than the other brands. So it certainly pays to buy the housemarks. Why shouldn't it be for medicines? It is an example of action where the same quality of care can be offered against a lower budget. The remaining amount can then be reinvested in nursing staff and in new care needs. I am thinking of the decisions you have taken on immunotherapy in oncology or the treatment of hepatitis C. Answers to previous questions have shown that your campaign with the general practitioners was successful. At the GP, the prescriber's behaviour is also tracked and feedbacked through benchmarking. Does this also apply to the regulations of specialists? Do you know whether they too are evolving towards cheap or cheapest prescription behavior? Should this not be the case, do you plan campaigns against this group or provide you with measures to ensure that the specialist also prescribes cheap or cheapest? I ask this question because in the field I heard various reactions from general practitioners and pharmacists who do use the cheapest prescription. However, they note that this is not always the case with the specialist and that they often change the brand of the product. I do not know whether this is supported by figures. In any case, it is important to involve the specialists in this measure, in addition to the general practitioners, because they are also important prescribers. The fact that not everyone is on the same page about the cheapest prescription also confuses the patient, in addition to the fact that this also leads to savings. Sometimes one has to change the brand, which in turn will not be good for therapy. My fellow Members from Open Vld have rightly tabled a resolution on this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic660x.u14	Mrs Van Camp, the same principles apply to specialists as to the general practitioners regarding the cheapest prescription. Given the specificity of the prescribed medicines and the fact that even more are used in patent specialties, the level to be achieved differs from cheapest prescription per specialty. The RIZIV regularly provides information on the definition of cheap prescription. The reference can be found on the website of the RIZIV, professionals, individual care providers, inexpensive prescription. I have a whole table here. The evolution is also positive for the specialists. I have all the individual percentages. Overall, we see that in the first trimester of 2015 specialists prescribe 40% inexpensive. We see that percentage in the second trimester, when our action is started, going to 42 % and already in the third trimester to 45%. If we look at the percentages for general practitioners, we see them rising from 46 to 47 to 49%. The effect of the campaign was thus slightly greater among specialists. Maybe that's because they started a little lower on average. With dentists, the percentage rose from 81 to 82 %, after which there was a slight fall to 80 %. So there are very large differences between them. Some, for example the stomatologists, already charge 81 % cheapest. For others, that percentage is lower. I note that the lowest figure found for the last trimester is 31 %, especially among oncologists. That is not surprising, because all these new molecules are still patented and everyone likes to be treated with the best medication. In any case, this action has also produced results for the specialists and is followed as closely by specialism. I'll get you the table.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic660x.u15	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. Those are very nice figures, certainly something you can beat on the chest with. A previous question I asked had already shown that this campaign was a success for general practitioners and now also for specialists. It is very important to note that this is not only a saving for society, but also for the patients themselves. Along with the other measures you have taken to bring down the bill for medical costs for patients, this is a very nice one.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic660x.u16	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Muylle's 17705 has been converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic660x.u17	Madam Minister, I am obviously not going to read all of the opinion given by the Supreme Council of Health (SHC) in its report entitled "Generalized genetic screening in the context of procreation. Towards responsible implementation in the health care system". This is an extremely interesting report with conclusions and recommendations. I don't read them. I had summarized them in my question, but you or your collaborators certainly had the opportunity to learn about them. I come now to my questions. What is your opinion on this report? Do you intend to seek advice from the Bioethics Advisory Committee, as suggested by the Superior Health Council? Have you started a dialogue with the actors involved in this issue, be it genetic centres, gynaecologists, general practitioners, obstetricians and patient associations? If not, do you intend to do it? Are you considering a pilot project? I have heard a professor, who is also an expert on the subject, speak out and plead for the passage through a pilot project. I'm not a big fan of pilot projects especially when you're doing pilot projects that are never just projects that existed before in the field, as we've seen recently, and that's just a package. Here, in this case, I think that would probably be a good idea. Of course, there are important budgetary issues. At the same time, there are issues that are particularly crucial for the families concerned and necessarily for the children to come.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic660x.u18	Madam Minister, my question is in line with the previous question. As you know, the Supreme Health Council has issued a remarkable opinion on carrier screening in reproductive context. The Council proposes to launch a pilot study and to seek an opinion from the Advisory Committee on Bioethics. I have the following two questions. Will you, like the Supreme Health Council, propose to seek an opinion from the Advisory Committee on Bioethics? How do you feel about the suggestion of starting a pilot's investigation?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic660x.u19	Mrs Fonck, mevrouw Somers, I have read the opinion of the Higher Council of Health. I consider it appropriate to obtain the opinion of the Advisory Committee on Bioethics prior to any initiative and to organise a consultation with the actors in the field on the delicate issue of genetic testing in the event of a desire for pregnancy. The initiative of such generalized screening practices raises a variety of ethical issues. This includes examining the relationship between the type of genetic information collected and the usefulness of that information to the person wishing to become pregnant. Beyond a potential public health interest, the impact of genetic information on people, beyond their design project, must also be taken into account. The Advisory Committee on Bioethics will be asked for an opinion on the possible implementation of the recommendation of the High Health Council. It is desirable to look first and foremost at the autosomally recessive genetically defined diseases which are quite prevalent in our population. There must also be broad social and medical support to position the new tests and to get them into practice. The difficulty in doing so, and this has already been addressed in previous discussions with the genetic centres, is not to do the test. The difficulty is to do the counseling afterwards, where the decision to allow pregnancy to continue or not, whether to begin or not, is still left to the parents concerned, or to the people who want the child. This is the difficult ethical aspect in this. This counseling must be done in a very thoughtful way, otherwise one risks causing great problems for the people. I'm not ruling out a pilot project, but it's definitely too premature to plan it now. The terrain is not uniform enough for that. What isn't may be, but there's other work to be done first.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic660x.u20	Madam Minister, I think you're quite timid in this matter. I take note of your comments. I think, however, that this is a dossier that cannot be left on the side. There are, of course, legal and ethical issues. So much the better if you have asked for the opinion of the Bioethics Commission! Good too, but then do it, if you intend to engage in a consultation with the actors involved! As for your reflections, we know today the recessive autosomal diseases related to X. We know them. The scientific data are present. Knowing them will not require an analysis. On the other hand, given the impact in terms of reproduction in relation to screening, one can obviously focus first and foremost on pathogenic mutations which have what are called "high penetrance" and "low variable expression", since one of the challenges is to minimize uncertainties when accompanying carrier couples. From the moment we make generalized panels, this must obviously include serious disorders for which therapeutic interventions exist but whose treatment is particularly heavy, whether for children or the family on the various aspects. We're not leaving anything. We already have an extremely important base. After the various opinions and consultations, we must move forward on this issue, knowing that the whole thing is not to do the test, to identify the risks but to have this accompaniment, this counselling which is not just advice but is also an important accompaniment of families before, during and after – and sometimes there for some time – the test performed and therefore the possible diagnosis of established risks. I'll come back to you. I hope that we will not wait until the end of the legislature to move forward.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic660x.u21	Madam Secretary, thank you for the answer. It is very good and appropriate that you should first seek advice from the Advisory Committee on Bioethics. In addition, I would not express it so strongly that you are rather dismissive and reluctant. Given the many legal and ethical aspects and the privacy issues in this area, we cannot really just look at the test itself. We must therefore look at this globally. In that sense, I think your answer is rather positive.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic660x.u22	Mr. President, Minister, you are aware of the 2005 Royal Order setting out the general principle of health care insurance. It states that the third-party-payer principle can always be applied for the intervention of insurance in the cost of all health benefits, which refers to a list of patients who are always entitled to it and, in particular, the beneficiaries who are in financial and occasional distress situations. It comes to my mind that you are about to adopt a royal decree concerning the logopedia which is intended to prohibit the practice of third-party payment for the services of logopedia in schools. I imagine you will answer that this is the translation of the agreement between the logopedes and the insurers. Between a convention and sinking this prohibition into a royal decree, there is a significant difference since you are derogating from the general and very important principle of third-party health accessibility charges. When I find that children (in particular, those among the most vulnerable) can benefit from school logopedia sessions, which guarantees their care, it creates an ease of organisation for families and, while a number of them have disabilities, they offer access facilities. What you're about to do is send them back to the private logoped cabinet. For a number of these children with disabilities, things are much more complicated. Access to the firm is only more difficult in terms of materiality. Children with disabilities who attend mainstream education will find it even more difficult to add more steps to a private practice in the afternoon or evening. I hear a lot of logopeds telling me how much they think it's a step backwards. I really call on you not to take this royal decree and even to discuss this provision again, within the framework of the Logomut Convention.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic660x.u23	Mrs Fonck, the Commission for Agreements between Logopedes and Insurers did not, in fact, include in the text of the 2016-2017 Convention, signed on 7 March 2016, the provisions relating to the prohibition of the third-party scheme for benefits provided at school, as they appeared in the text of the previous Convention, in accordance with the Royal Decree of 18 September 2015 which you mention in your question and not by virtue of a wish or a decision of the Commission of Conventions. Indeed, the Convention Commission proposed an amendment to the Royal Decree of 18 September 2015 to reinstate this prohibition. As a result, I proposed this royal decree. It was put on the agenda of the Council of Ministers on 28 April 2017. I think it'll be published soon enough. It is a royal decree that will restore the ban on third-party payment for logopedia services at school.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic660x.u24	Minister, thank you for this very regulatory and administrative response. I think this is a mistake, because for these very vulnerable children, with disabilities for a number of them and who are in mainstream education, everyone wins this situation: organisational facilities for families; access facilities, especially for children with disabilities, in order to prevent them from returning to another consultation later; guarantee for these more vulnerable children to follow this treatment by logopedia. The arrangement you are going to make is for them a hindrance. No one wins, neither children, nor their future integration, since you know that logopedia is vital for everything that is education, training and professional and societal integration. In the end, I think it even has a negative impact on the state. Indeed, this clearly budgetary measure - it must be recalled - will, in the medium and long term, have a negative impact on the state budget, and potentially a negative impact. I therefore join the logopedes calling for a review of this measure, as well as the families and children involved in this scheme. I clearly call you back.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic660x.u25	Madam President, Minister, it was recently decided to drastically reduce or in certain cases abolish the refund of immunoglobulin for the treatment of patients with immunodeficiency. We know that a few panic reactions have appeared in the press as a result. For the record, I don't blame you. We all know what's going on. However, I do have a number of practical questions and a number of questions for further explanation. Firstly, how long were the doctors and patients properly informed about this measure? After all, we have read in the press that some people have experienced this as a death sentence. Again, we know what's going on. However, I would have liked to have had an answer to the practical questions. Secondly, will the medicine still be registered in the future, so that it can be followed if it is still used as a non-refundable medicine? Linked to this, are doctors sensitized about their prescription behaviour? Thirdly, it seems that a transitional measure has also been worked out. What exactly is this one made of? The following is very recent and I had not included in the written record of my question, but I suppose you know about it. In order to be recognized as primary one must now visit the immunologist. It has now come to our attention that there are very long waiting times. I don't know if that's right. That's what I'd like to hear from you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic660x.u26	Madam Minister, judging by the number of questions, I am certainly not the only one who has received a lot of questions about human immunoglobulin. One of the brand names that is often called is Privigen. The affected patients have even submitted a petition and a petition to ask for clarification on the change to reimbursement. I assume that this decision, like most of your policies, is based on the most recent scientific findings and is therefore also in the best interests of the patient. Can you indicate precisely the studies and scientific findings on which this decision to change reimbursement is based, so that those who are confronted with it know what is behind it and they should not worry about the change in reimbursement? I agree with Mr Jiroflée's question. I have heard on the premises and from patients that there was one week between the announcement and the effective entry into force of the refund change. At least that's how the patients experience it. I have included the dates mentioned in the written presentation of my vagueness. Can you objectively explain exactly how the communication was conducted? What's common around here? I know that there are legal deadlines for announcing and implementing changes to refunds. Were the legal provisions respected? I note that there is still a great deal of uncertainty among patients about what is being reimbursed to whom and under what conditions. Can you clarify that? Which treatment according to the scientific findings and your policies is most appropriate for patients who are no longer eligible for reimbursement? Which therapy is in accordance with the latest scientific findings? As I have already received so many questions, I wonder how many patients exactly are affected by the change. I understand that the change concerns mainly secondary immunodeficiency. How is that distinction made and how will you verify that?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic660x.u27	Madam President, Minister, I will be very brief because the situation has been explained and most of the questions have been asked, including those I wanted to ask. However, the next aspect raises questions for me. There is a group of patients whose type is not defined today, who are in uncertainty. They are subject to a transitional period until 1 October, I believe. They should also address a doctor of the Belgian Primary Immune Deficiency Group and apparently it is not easy to get an appointment there soon. Those concerned fear that they will not reach the date of 1 October. What happens then? If one has completed the entire journey and still does not receive a refund, what will happen? Quid with the invoices that are already there from that period? They also have a lot of specific questions under the transitional measures. Madam Secretary, it is the High Health Council that made the recommendation you are now making in 2010. I therefore suspect that there is sufficient scientific basis for this. My main concern is the transitional measures for those who are excluded. A second aspect also mentioned by Mr Van Camp is communication. Are there sufficient alternatives for those who no longer receive reimbursement and are they sufficiently informed about the continuation of their treatment in a different way?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic660x.u28	Madam President, Minister, I have obviously carefully examined the conditions and the three aspects. I won't take them back here. These include components related to patients with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome, primary immunodeficiency, myeloma, CML, B-cell malignancy, or B-cell iatrogenic deficiency, or in relation to the use of monoclonal antibodies or chemotherapy. I have been contacted by several patients and by several parents or grandparents of patients, including young children, who are treated with human and normal immunoglobulins. As other colleagues have already done, I would like to inform you of their incomprehension. In his time, I had read the opinion of the Higher Council of Health. This notice was issued in 2010. The least we can say is that the opinion was extremely cautious. Indeed, it called for a regular review of scientific developments. He also said how fundamental it was to always be attentive to how things would be achieved, to alternatives in terms of treatment and to decision-making. The patients who contacted me are not in good shape. I want us to be aware of that. These are patients who often have a particularly heavy medical history, which goes back many years. Minister, could you justify your decisions to change the rules and completely remove access to treatment for some patients? I am thinking here, in particular, of patients with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome who have not decided to receive this treatment; it has been prescribed to them. Could you also explain to me about the procedure? For patients for whom there is not a pure and simple removal of treatment on the basis of a category, you require a re-evaluation by a doctor from the Belgian Primary Immune Deficiency Group (BPIDG). I took the trouble to review the list of members who are members of the OPIDG. I don't know if you're aware of the distribution across the country. The Flemish Brabant, the Brussels-Capital Region and Eastern Flanders have a fairly large number of doctors included in this list. On the other hand, for the entire province of Hainaut, which is still the largest Francophone province, there are two doctors. In the province of Liège, there is one. In Namur province, there is one. In the province of Luxembourg, there are none. In West Flanders, there are none either. Other provinces do have a much larger number. It is in Flemish Brabant and the Brussels-Capital Region that there is the most. This obviously raises questions about how these patients, who are also monitored by a general practitioner, and by specialists for a number of them, will have access to this clinical re-evaluation. And beyond this, be it those for whom you decide to remove treatment or others, on how alternative treatment can be considered and decided upon. Many of these patients have been taking these treatments not since yesterday. In addition, these treatments have been regularly reviewed in accordance with their evolution, particularly in relation to the number of infections and complications of infections they may have experienced. On this subject, I am extremely surprised, Madam Minister, by the transitions you have planned, and that is the least we can say, beyond the patients for whom you have decided to remove the treatment. I really want you to explain to me how and why you made this decision. For others, the deadlines are particularly short when one sees the possibility of being re-evaluated by doctors, dispensed by those designated in your short list. Finally, this also raises a number of significant questions about how each one has been informed. I find that the information that has been given to patients is incomplete or even completely absent. Imagine the situation of patients who have been suffering from a serious, sometimes very serious disease for several years. All this is not simple. What about information to caregivers, particularly general practitioners and specialists who follow these patients? It will also be opportune to see how physicians who are part of the OPIDG will be able to maintain a pace as fast as you impose in order not only to receive their patients, patients who have recently registered for their consultations – their normal activity is not negligible – but also to complete all the re-evaluation to be carried out for patients treated today and who, tomorrow, could no longer benefit from it. I am waiting for the answers and I would also like to ask you for figures on the budgetary side for the State. In addition, I would like to know the financial impact and the assessment of the financial impact of your decisions if some patients were deprived of the reimbursement and if, nevertheless, for medical reasons, they had to continue their treatment.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic660x.u29	Mevrouw Jiroflée, mevrouw Van Camp, mevrouw Muylle, Ms. Fonck, first of all, I would point out that no changes have been made to the terms of reimbursement for human and normal intravenous and subcutaneous immunoglobulins in patients with primary immunodeficiency, as in effect since January 1, 2014. And that, unlike everything you've seen in the media. Why should we look more closely at the scientific basis of our policy in this area? According to information from Pharmanet, the net impact for INAMI of the reimbursement of these human immunoglobulins in 2007 was EUR 31 million. This amount rose to €79 million in 2015, an increase of 255%. This suggests that the number of patients increased sharply during this period. Such an increase raises questions. Where does this increase come from? Are all these patients receiving the right treatment? In addition, it should be noted that the stock of human immunoglobulins is limited. It's from the plasma. We have no other sources. We must therefore manage it with great caution and ensure that patients who really need this treatment can receive it. The clinical scientific analysis, carried out in accordance with the principles of evidence-based medicine under Article 38 of the Commission's procedure for reimbursement of medicinal products, was in accordance with the usual CRM procedure based on an analysis of the recent literature on the subject, as set out in the D60 report. Mrs Fonck, I have here for you, and the other members of the committee, the exact references of the publications on which the Commission relied. During the Article 38 procedure in CRM, there was no intervention by CRM academic banks to maintain reimbursement for a general acquired immunodeficiency, and therefore not primary immunodeficiency. Based on that evidence-based medicine analysis of the scientific literature, the compensation conditions for some secondary immune deficiency disorders were extended in patients with haematological malignancies, such as multiple myeloma or chronic lymphocytic leukaemia, including those with iatrogenic b-cell deficiency by the use of monochromal antibodies or chemotherapy. The Committee on Medicinal Products Meeting reviewed the conditions for reimbursement by the end of 2016. It was up to the RIZIV to communicate the measures, as always, via the website. Commercialised normal human immune globals for intravenous and subcutaneous administration in Belgium are all indicated for the treatment of patients with primary immune deficiency. No immunoglobulin has a registered indication of secondary immune deficiency, unless, as mentioned above, in patients with multiple myeloma or chronic lymphocytic leukaemia with recurrent bacterial infections. It is only the manufacturer who can register the medicinal product for an additional indication. The doctor shall certify in Annex A the refundable indication of two paragraphs of Chapter 4 for which reimbursement is sought. There is no provision for further sensitisation of doctors. It cannot be ruled out that a number of patients who in the past received compensation for secondary immunodeficiency therapy may also have an underlying primary immunodeficiency, known or unknown. The exact number of patients involved is not yet known, since it is not on the second line that the number of patients with primary immunodeficiency will be known. In the CRM procedure, it is widely estimated that between 20 and 50 per cent of patients currently receiving secondary immunodeficiency compensation may have underlying primary immunodeficiency. Contrary to some information in the media, we are indeed planning a transitional regime. Since the diagnosis of primary immunodeficiency and indications of treatment with human and normal immunoglobulins must be made in accordance with the reimbursement conditions in effect since January 1, 2014 and/or confirmed by a physician in the OPIDG, the hospital pharmacist may, on the grounds of force majeure, postpone the billing until the diagnosis is made or confirmed by that physician. In this way, the doctors and patients concerned have the time required for diagnostic procedures. This measure ends on 1 October. Six months are foreseen for transitional measures. Finally, it is also important to underline that patients with a valid authorisation of reimbursement for a secondary immune deficiency will retain the authorisation beyond 1 April 2017 until the expiry of the authorisation after a maximum period of 12 months. All these technical matters have been explained on the website of the RIZIV, but they have apparently also not been correctly taken over by some doctors and certainly not properly communicated to the patients, which has led to a number of panic reactions and some understandable emotional reactions. In any case, if this were to be a saving, only the number of indications would have been reduced. They didn't do that. On the contrary, they have added. However, it has been said that within six months an opinion should be sought from a doctor who is able to assess the matter with knowledge, who nevertheless requires some knowledge. Until now, the consultation was not necessary once a year. One of the arguments was that the patient sometimes had to wait until one and a half years before he or she could go to such a doctor. Well, the RIZIV has called off the hospitals at our request and so far no waiting lists have been established simply because anyone who already has a primary deficiency does not have to consult in accordance with the new procedure. Anyone who falls within the given indications should not go there either. If there is not a doctor with the necessary competences in each province for these rare diseases, this can only be a challenge to better geographical distribution of subquotas and subspecialties across our country. When we talk about centres of excellence, it is clear that specialists are not on every corner of the street for such matters. We need to know what we're doing. When we talk about evidence-based work, this also goes hand in hand with the fact that sometimes once a year, on the basis of the current dossier, we will have to go to a doctor who does a little more practice. Today there's another message in the media like I'd declare people dead with my own hands. I understand the emotion, but frankly, we are trying to work in a scientifically sound way. We want to continue to give the immunoglobulins to the people they really need, to the people whose lives depend on them. If that is not permitted in our country, Mrs Fonck, what are we doing? I know it's corn on your mill, that you're hoping for a lot of emotion and a lot of tralala, but listen and look at what's going on on the ground.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic660x.u30	Madam Minister, let me be clear, I am not questioning the measure myself at the moment. I am also well aware that it is not only your responsibility, but the least one can say is that there has been inadequate communication or that communication has gone wrong somewhere. I therefore urge you, in future, to ensure that patients and doctors are properly communicated to such problems, in which so many people feel affected. This clearly did not happen here, otherwise we would not have known so many cases. I'm glad there aren't any waiting lists.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic660x.u31	Madam Secretary, I can largely endorse that. I think that the decision-making basis will be clear when we receive the references. I have always done scientific research myself and based my work on scientific findings. I think it is very important to include this in current policy. It is true that we should reserve the resources for the patients they really need. I will check these references carefully, but that seems to me to be a well-founded choice. It is clear that communication, whoever is responsible for it, has not been properly addressed. My mailbox exploded through emails from patients who asked questions about this. I am glad that we have received the answers here and that they can be traced back to the patients, who can find a clear framework in this.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic660x.u32	Madam Secretary, I have nothing to add. I've got answers to all my questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic660x.u33	Minister, I would like to make a number of comments, if I may. The first is that you justify yourself by explaining that between 2007 and 2015 there was a 255% increase in the budget based on Pharmanet data. On the other hand, I find that from the moment we make this observation it is necessary, first and foremost, to ask ourselves scientifically whether there are no justified reasons which can explain the necessary use of this treatment. We didn't talk about it today, but I think you really have to ask yourself about it. It may happen at some point that, for a variety of reasons not necessarily identified, a necessary increase in the use of this product is due to a series of additional pathologies that have occurred and an increased incidence. Secondly, I can agree that it is obviously necessary to ensure that all patients who absolutely need it have it, but, unless you tell me, from what I know, there has been no deficiency in the stock of immunoglobulins in recent years. Thirdly, I believe that at least for patients who will still be able to access it tomorrow, but on the basis of the advice of the OPIDG physician, the information of patients and doctors on transitional measures could have been more efficient so as to avoid that a number of patients who, fortunately, will still be entitled to it tomorrow, are not seriously concerned because they have actually fired the alarm bell at several places. On the other hand, for patients for whom you are removing access to this reimbursement, i.e. patients suffering from acquired immunodeficiency syndrome, I would ask for a provision to be put in place that would allow, on the basis of a medical record, a reimbursement authorisation because some of these patients, if they have to choose alternatives that could cause side effects, would find themselves in a very complicated medical situation. I therefore plead for a reimbursement authorization on the basis of a medical record drawn up by the medical consultant, in connection with a doctor of the OPIDG. Minister, you are saying that there will be no concern and that you have provided for transitional measures. I'd like to quote one from you. You say that the hospital pharmacist – and I do not dispute it, being in possession of all the rational information – can, in case of force majeure, post the billing until the diagnosis is made and/or confirmed by the physician of the immunodeficiency group. Of course, but if ever after, when the hospital has postponed the billing, there is no authorization, then the invoice for several weeks or even months will have to be paid by the patient and for some of them, it could amount to 1,700 euros per month, if the reimbursement is no longer insured. Madam Chair, I have a three-pronged motion here. Firstly, I recommend that the reimbursement for acquired immunodeficiency syndromes should not be abolished, but instead, on the basis of the patient's individual file, that they should be subject to a specific authorisation, which would allow those who need it to benefit from it. Secondly, I recommend adopting a policy of changing the conditions for reimbursement, not with budgetary logic, but with a public health approach and in consultation with the professionals concerned. Thirdly, I recommend that transitional measures be taken long enough to allow adequate and quality information for professionals but also for patients and, above all, to ensure that treatments are adapted and that continuity of care is avoided.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic660x.u34	In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. A motion for recommendation was tabled by Ms. Catherine Fonck and reads as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the inquiry of Ms. Catherine Fonck and the response of the Minister of Social Affairs and Public Health, asks the government - instead of completely abolishing the reimbursement of immunoglobulins for the treatment of acquired immunodeficiency syndromes, provide for a reimbursement authorisation on the basis of an analysis of the patient's medical record by the medical consultant in connection with a doctor of the Belgian Primary Immune Deficiency Group (BPIDG), - adopt a policy of changing the conditions for reimbursement of medicinal products based not on a purely budgetary logic but on a public health approach, in consultation with the health professionals concerned, - provide for transitional measures long enough to enable adequate and quality information to be provided to the professionals and patients concerned and to ensure that the treatment of patients is adapted in order to avoid a breakdown in the continuity of care." A motion of recommendation was tabled by Mrs Catherine Fonck and reads as follows: "The Chamber, heard the interplay of Mrs Catherine Fonck and the reply of the Minister for Social Affairs and Health, calls on the Government - with regard to the reimbursement of immunoglobulins for the treatment of acquired immune deficiency syndromes, provide for an authorization to reimburse on the basis of an analysis of the medical file by the consultant together with a physician of the Belgian Primary Immune Deficiency Group (BPIDG), instead of abolishing them completely, - to pursue a policy of changing the conditions for reimbursement of medicinal products not on the basis of a purely budgetary logic, but on the basis of a public health-centred approach, in consultation with the practitioners concerned, - take sufficiently long transitional measures to enable the practitioners and patients concerned to provide adequate and quality information and to ensure that patients' treatment is adjusted in order not to jeopardise the continuity of care provision." A simple motion was tabled by Ms. Ine Somers and Ms. Yoleen Van Camp. A simple motion was tabled by Mrs. Ine Somers and Ms. Yoleen Van Camp. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed. The motions will be voted on later. The meeting's over.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic660x.u35	Minister, since January 1, 2017, in the absence of a dental-mutualist agreement, dentists can freely set the rates for dental care, with more important supplements for patients. The absence of a tariff agreement is the result of the government's savings in health insurance, in particular on the indexing of the fees of health care providers, including dentists. We have repeatedly denounced them and have urged you to maintain dialogue. The agreement reached on 13 April thus put an end to a period of tariff insecurity. Resources have been made available to improve the reimbursement of expensive dental care for cancer patients. It's obviously important. However, a maximum fee mechanism will allow the contracted dentist to charge the patient an additional amount beyond the INAMI rate for certain technical procedures. This amount will be conditional on the patient's prior consent and communication to mutualities, via the certificate of care, of the amount charged to the patient. In terms of reimbursement, the patient's personal shares remain unchanged in 2017. In 2018, user tickets will increase but will remain unchanged for children as well as for prevention services and patients who benefit from the increased intervention. Some fees will also be adapted to increase the cost of equipment and instruments. Minister, this agreement has finally been reached. It feels like it was the last chance deal. However, the context remains difficult. The Society of Dental Medicine says that it has reached "the limit of the acceptable", according to her. If your government imposes new savings measures when setting the budget target for 2018, it will be the end of this system of agreement within the National Dento-mutualist Commission. These are obviously disturbing, though understandable, comments. Because it is still and still the patients who are penalized because they pay more without being reimbursed. Can you now tell us whether or not new savings will be imposed on our health care, which has so far been the main variable for adjusting your budget? Will you speak this time? Overall, and although some of these resources are allocated to measures to improve access to dental care, patients also finance 20% of the agreement reached today through increases in certain user tickets. In addition, the mechanism of maximum rates in place is also harmful to patients and is simply the consequence of the structural underfunding of dental care. Do you confirm the temporary nature of this mechanism? Can a supplementary budget be made available so that the benefits covered by this mechanism are integrated into the nomenclature as soon as possible? Do you hope that more dentists will agree with this agreement? This is also the way for patients to be able to pay their fees.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic660x.u36	Mr. Frédéric, first of all, I want to point out that when the government imposed savings, I always ensured that the patient was not affected. For the dental sector, the national agreement provides for a clause according to which the National Dento-mutualist Commission can denounce it in the event that for 2018, the government enters an economy on the basis of a text of partial budgetary targets 2018 for the dental sector. Let me insist, however, on keeping the moderator tickets at their 2017 value, that is to say, 2016, even without indexing, thanks to the new system of fixed moderator tickets. I confirm that the objective is ultimately to include services with maximum tariffs in the nomenclature as provided for in point 5 on priorities in the national agreement. These benefits have been introduced in order to promote quality care while guaranteeing certain tariff security for insured persons. The introduction of maximum tariffs is a first step in assessing the use of these services by dentists, setting fees on the basis of objective evaluations, the methodology of which will be determined, and preventing dentists from deconcentrating because the current nomenclature does not take into account the actual costs of new materials. Finally, they also prevent contracted dentists from sending patients to other uncontracted providers with significantly higher rates. I hope that this new agreement will lead more dentists to agree through the new measures, including the introduction of maximum rates. In addition, the national agreement provides that the National Dento-mutualist Commission must make proposals for a new system of agreements. The aim of the new system will be, on the one hand, to strengthen tariff security and transparency for insured persons, as well as to increase care at the agreed rate; on the other hand, to provide for a more flexible system of entry into force of the agreement for dentists, with fair fees fixed independently and objectively. It has always been difficult to reach agreements with dentists in the past. That remains the reality. Nevertheless, I believe that this agreement is well balanced, in the interest of the patient while taking into account the costs that are real for dentists in some cases.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic660x.u37	Minister, thank you for your full answer. We will, of course, remain attentive. You're referring to it; the statistics show that dental care is often the last one, because it's inaccessible to a large number of families. On the other hand, although I have not consulted, as many here, I often hear dentists also react to the shortage of dentistry specialists in some areas. In any case, that's the case in mine. This should not make care even less accessible, practically and financially. I have one last comment, but I don't want to upset you, Madam Minister. You introduce your answer by stating that you have always ensured that the patient is not affected. Admit it. I do not share your optimism. I believe that this government has led you to take on savings, not least, and that they affect, in practice, on a daily basis, our citizens in terms of access to health care in general and to medicines in particular. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic660x.u38	Madam Secretary, I would like to return to an earlier question on urgent medical assistance. I'll keep the introduction brief. It concerns the current application of the legislation on urgent medical care. I would like to refer to the law of 8 July 1964 on urgent medical assistance and its implementing procedures, and to the law of 2007 on civil aid. It stipulates that the execution of urgent medical care and the conditions of conditions should not be charged extra. Once a patient is stable, it's best to get him transferred to the hospital as soon as possible. The MUG doctor or possibly the paramedic is the best person to decide when and how that happens. For example, if the lift in an apartment building is not sufficiently large for a stretcher, evacuating with a ladder car is the fastest and most appropriate way. The Fluvia rescue zone charges a fee for the use of a ladder car when someone is evacuated from an apartment, even if it is commissioned by, for example, the MUG doctor or the ambulance worker. At a previous committee meeting, you said that such acts were illegal and even criminal. On today's day, the Fluvia relief zone even sends out a warrant to work with a bailiff. This is possible for unpaid invoices, when there is no dispute. In these cases, of course, there is a dispute. I would like to have an answer to the following questions. Are you aware of the way this zone works? What steps could possibly be taken against this approach? My second question concerns the future of urgent medical care. The report of the Advisory Committee on Civil Security of 15 March last describes the state of emergency medical assistance. A representative of your cabinet states that the Minister of Health's plan on this matter is ready. Instead of the current 432 ambulances, the plan still provides for 300 ambulances, supplemented by 50 PITs. A recurring amount of EUR 140 million will be needed for the permanent financing of these 350 ambulance departure points. In the future, therefore, the funding for deployment should consist of three separate parts. Firstly, a removal fee, fixed at EUR 30 at a time, which would be linked to the activation by the auxiliary centre of the product in question, irrespective of whether a patient is being cared for or transported. The remuneration shall be borne by the public authorities, in particular the RIZIV. Secondly, the performance fee to cover the material costs of taking care of the patient on the spot. This flat-rate fee would be 15 euros or 30 euros, if the care was provided by an ambulanceman or a nurse from the PIT respectively. This allowance is borne by the patient. Thirdly, a fee of EUR 30 for the patient's transport to the hospital, if necessary, at the expense of the patient. The total cost to the patient would then be around €45 or €60, where the current funding under the 50/50 scheme averages €65. Finally, to cover the development of the software and the training of those who will use it, EUR 500 000 is needed. First of all, how will this be budgeted? Secondly, in practice, in view of the problems with the current DMH, how will the ambulance break even run with the proposed funding? Thirdly, what impact will this decision have on the speed of interventions to the place where the call is? Fourthly, can additional tools be charged, such as the use of a height worker? Finally, what budget do you provide for the permanents or the places where these ambulances are located?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic660x.u39	Minister, as part of the emergency medical aid, the PITs (paramedical intervention team) are tools of intermediate medical transport in the relief chain, between the ambulance and the mobile emergency and resuscitation service (SMUR). This organization of emergency medical aid was established in 2007 and continues to receive funding as a pilot project. The financing of this activity amounts to 120,000 euros per year and by PIT, with a payment of 5 euros per kilometre. However, this funding seems insufficient to cover the costs of a team consisting, at a minimum, of an ambulance attendant and a nurse with special title in intensive care and emergency medical assistance, as well as the necessary mobile equipment. Minister, in a context of rationalizing hospital funding, this underfunding puts at risk the financial balance of the hospitals involved in this project. As part of a reform of emergency medical aid and following the report prepared by the Federal Centre of Expertise (KCE) on an integrated system for the management of severe trauma, do you envisage a refinancing of the ITPs to the level of the burdens inherent in the function? Are you also considering extending the number of ITPs and their missions?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic660x.u40	Firefighters' assistance for interventions and emergency medical assistance is regarded as a technical assistance activity. I didn't invent that word, that's the term used. If these technical assistance work is carried out to protect or rescue people, they should also be carried out free of charge. Assistance within urgent medical assistance certainly falls within this framework and the specific request for assistance by a MUG is in this case unnecessary confirmation of the framework in which work is being carried out. If there is a disputed invoicing, the injured party may, in addition to challenging the relief zone, also supply a file to the governor of the province in which the intervention took place, or to the Minister for the Interior, in the context of administrative supervision of the relief zones. One can, of course, also go to court to ask whether it is worth the coal. At present, the urgent medical aid sector is still regulated by the law on urgent medical aid of 1964. Since then, no major adjustments have been made and we all know that the needs in the field have changed enormously. Originally, the financing was conceived as a mere transport licence per kilometre driven during the intervention, but the amount of this mileage allowance was never cost-effective from the outset either. Since 2012, this permanent fee has been supplemented by a permanent grant of 15 600 euros. In 2016, I released the necessary funds within my budget to increase this permanent grant to 46 800 euros. In contrast to this subsidy, an ambulance service must provide a 24/24 and 7/7 permanence. Based on the average gross salary cost of a professional staff member within the hospital, and the need for twice 5.6 full-time equivalents for a full-time departure, the real staff cost for this permanence is around EUR 616 000 per year. That difference of around EUR 570 000 with the grant is not closed by financing the activity, i.e. the mileage fee. Only by additional contributions from the municipalities for public services or by developing systems at the border of the socially and fiscally permissible debt instrument, i.e. the concessioned services, can the actors of urgent medical aid survive. Because of the discrepancy between the subsidised and the real costs, we also run the risk that in future more and more services will stop their ambulance operations, starting with the fire services, which operate 60% of our ambulance services. When it comes to the fire department, it is also a responsibility of the Minister for the Interior, Mr Jambon. We worked very hard together between our two cabinets to propose a solution for the whole. There is therefore a need for a rapid and professional functioning of this medical discipline. This was also confirmed by the parliamentary committee of inquiry. You have also heard, Mr Frédéric, that in the case of the attacks a huge capacity had to be built up in very little time. Secondary transports also had to be taken into account. In the meantime, ordinary services had to be safeguarded. There is indeed a file ready. This was discussed in close consultation, on the basis of the report of the working groups of the National Council for Urgent Medical Assistance and working groups in which the sector was involved. Of course, this has also been checked out with the sector. However, that dossier requires money. It will be discussed in the budget format 2018. Minister Jambon and myself will then put it on the table together. In the future, permanent financing should cover a substantial part of the staff costs of the ambulance concerned. The remaining staff costs can be obtained from performance fees per intervention or from synergies that the services can develop with their other tasks, including administration and general management. A break-even scenario is therefore the goal for the first time in more than 50 years. There will be no impact within this vision on the speed of intervention as a service level will also be determined for the first time since the 1964 law. The future service level agreement provides that 90% of the calls would be with the patient within 15 minutes of the call. The programming model drawn up by the University of Ghent shows that, on the basis of the historical data provided at a given location and the validated driving time data on the road, the future standard can be achieved on Belgian territory provided that 307 full-time ambulance departures are programmed. I am looking for more than 307, and I am looking for 350 because we have to be able to travel long distances in less populated rural areas, and I am looking for 50 PITs. Mr Frédéric, it is true that in the coming years the number of ITPs will certainly increase. As part of the reform of emergency medical assistance, the funding of permanences will be proportionately increased for ITPs in order to reach the threshold of profitability. Funding for assistance to the areas of emergency medical assistance, for example, with an altitude worker, as you ask, Mr Top O'Brien, is not provided for within the model, as such interventions are considered to be a technical assistance work within the framework of civil security regulations. So they can be carried out to protect or save people. They must therefore be carried out free of charge by analogy with assistance at a height, such as with a crane. Clearly, if the number of ITPs is to be increased, they must also be increased. At the same time, we will reduce the number of ambulances, not to 307, but to 350. These means must be transferred to the ITPs, mainly in favour of the third ambulances, i.e. those which are in the third or second line and for which the interventions do not vary very much. They are present in the field but do little. On the other hand, there are grey areas in which the response time is longer. In this context, our aim is to achieve the same level of urgent medical assistance throughout the country, taking into account all the specificities such as the presence of tourists on the coast for only a few months of the year. We have done a great deal of work and I hope to find the financial means with the help of Minister Jambon. If we complete this work, we will have taken a big step forward.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic660x.u41	Madam President, Minister, as far as your answer to my first question is concerned, I am pleased that I am once again getting confirmation that these technical means and the call, for example, for an altitude worker to be called on is and will remain free of charge. Like the Minister of the Interior, you have also indicated that you can protest either through the governor of the zone itself or through the Minister of the Interior. In the Flemish Parliament a number of complaints were made about a water company that had made faulty invoices and had overcharged customers. At the direction of the Flemish Parliament, the Minister took the initiative to have that water company draw up a general regulation on these invoices. The question is to what extent such an initiative can be taken here. Now a good, well-meaning citizen who is fooled by the relief zone and has already paid his bill, while not having to do so, is punished, while another citizen who is in doubt tries to exercise his rights and complains. Can no initiative be taken to allow everyone to exercise their right in the same way in respect of incorrect invoices and either to demand a refund or to request the cessation of these incorrect invoices? I refer to the above example of the Flemish Government which has done so in the area of water bills and a certain water company. As far as your answer to my second question is concerned, I am pleased that you are taking the initiative and I would like to support it, especially since several areas of aid indicate that there is a financing problem. I note in my own area and I hear from other areas that, as you yourself have indicated, there is a risk that certain aid zones will reduce the service provided by DMH and that there may be a vacuum in the area of permanence. I will follow up this dossier and wait for the promise to be fulfilled and money released so that the relief zones get better funding to maintain the DMH and maintain the service level of 15 minutes, which is not happening today. Some speak of a 12-minute rule, others just don't take it into account. I will continue to follow up on this dossier and thank you for your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic660x.u42	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. You are aware of the work done by your intervention teams. You said that they were found to be effective in the context of the commission of inquiry into the attacks. I also see their effectiveness on the ground on a daily basis, in my rural area, where great distances have to be travelled. Time often counts in times of crisis. You are telling me that there will be increases in the number of ITPs that can compensate for the reduction of ambulances in the fire department; that it also depends on the work you are doing in collaboration with the Minister of the Interior and that you are hoping for the means. In any case, minister, know that we will be your most loyal supporters to support you in this request for means! This seems to us to be absolutely essential for our fellow citizens.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic660x.u43	Questions No 17876, No 17877 and No 17878 by Mrs Sybille de Coster-Bauchau are transformed into written questions, as is question No 17881 by Mrs Kattrin Jadin.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic660x.u44	Minister, between 30,000 and 45,000 Belgians have Parkinson's disease. Estimates show that these figures are expected to double within 20 to 30 years. Dopamine is one of the medicines used to treat this disease. However, these treatments may lose their effectiveness at times. No reason has yet been found for this. Since the 1990s, there has been an operation of implanting electrodes in order to send electrical stimulations to the brain. Unfortunately, it is highly risky beyond the age of seven hundred years. Parkinson's disease usually occurs between sixty and sixty-five years. One of the treatments recommended by the experts, in excess of surgical and/or drug treatment, is physical exercise, at a significant intensity, which offers a preventive benefit, but also some effectiveness to hinder the development of the disease. It should also be noted that this disease does not only affect the elderly. It therefore seems important to encourage patients to exercise intense physical activity during treatment. To do so, they must be helped to overcome the shame they may feel, to combat false beliefs and ignorance of the disease, and to further improve the adapted infrastructures, which are very weak in Belgium. Minister, do you have any data on the prevalence of Parkinson's disease in our country? Are new initiatives being considered for the management of (future) patients with Parkinson's disease? More generally, cerebral diseases affect almost one in three Belgians, and it appears that these brain disorders account for 35% of the total disability associated with all human diseases. Their cost would reach €18 billion per year in Belgium, a figure which has increased by 42% in six years. Against this background, the Belgian Brain Council (BBC) advocates for a "national brain plan". This plan provides for the development of a comprehensive observatory of research activities, the promotion of new approaches and technologies, the creation of a central register of ongoing disorders and clinical trials, or the active involvement of patient representatives. What do you think of such a project? Would you agree to collaborate in its implementation? Are you already working with them?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic660x.u45	Frédéric, the management of patients with chronic brain disease, and more specifically Parkinson's disease, requires a cross-cutting approach and specific management of the pathology. In the case of chronic diseases, the cross-cutting needs are: recognition of the immediate caregiver, the patient empowerment, access to case managers, psychosocial care, necessary multidisciplinary collaboration, etc. These are the objectives that we incorporated in the integrated care plan adopted at the interdepartmental conference on 15 October 2015. It goes without saying, however, that the needs of Parkinson patients go beyond the objectives set out in the integrated care plan. For example, Parkinson patients have access to treatment, the second component of management. I am thinking in particular of medicines reimbursed: Levodopa and dopamine antagonists. Specific surgery for the treatment of Parkinson is also planned, including pallidotomy and deep brain stimulation. As far as the latter is concerned, INAMI has developed a convention. Thirteen specialized centres are recognized by such a convention. It is mandatory to register the implantation of a deep brain stimulation device in the Registry neuromodulation incorporated into the Healthdata.be project within the ISP. As part of rehabilitation, Parkinson's patients benefit from a higher reimbursement of their physiotherapy care and certain specific benefits. These heavy pathologies are included in List E. Finally, I would like to point out that patients with locomotor and neurological disorders, in general, can be treated in a specialized centre for general functional rehabilitation for locomotor and neurological disorders. The functional rehabilitation offered in some centres improves health, autonomy and psychological well-being, so that social reintegration takes place in the best possible conditions. If the patient undergoes re-education, especially in a general or specific rehabilitation centre, he or she may sometimes continue and complete re-education in another centre, including the R30-R60 re-education centres. That's what exists. I know the Brain Council well. They have a plan. That is why we have created chronic disease status. We had a lot of plans but it wasn't integrated for all patients. Now, it's different, by our way of working on an integrated care plan, adopted in the interdepartmental conference by nine competent ministers - and you know that nine times it's not always easy to work. But we really pulled this file, because it's important to so many patients. It also allows us to move forward in the field of all chronic diseases, or which will be chronic later, such as certain cancers and diseases for which we will find medicines that will stabilize patients. Fortunately, acute and terminal diseases will be chronic. When I say fortunately, I mean that patients will still be alive, but they will obviously, as you say, need integrated care.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic660x.u46	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic660x.u47	Mr Senesael is no longer present.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic660x.u48	Madam President, Minister, the Federal Health Knowledge Centre has developed a method to keep the price of medicines as low as possible for consumers. This method would also strengthen the government's position vis-à-vis the pharmaceutical industry. This system was developed at the request of the BeNeLuxA, a cooperation on pharmaceutical policy between the three Benelux countries and Austria. But I'm sure you know that. A central unit for all participating countries would analyse all scientific publications, reports, product information, financial news and the like on medicines that are in the pipeline. This unit will look at questions like: is the new medicine really worth its money? Is it more effective than the drugs that are already on the market? Is it really revolutionary? And so on. In this respect, governments are often too often dependent on information from the pharmaceutical industry itself. pharma.be appears to be willing to cooperate with this new system, subject to certain conditions. My questions are as follows. How do you feel about the KCE's proposal? What do you think of the methods worked out? Is that what you're gonna do? Have you already consulted or will you be consulting with your colleagues from the Netherlands, Luxembourg and Austria?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic660x.u49	Madam President, Madam Minister, since I have an analogue question, I will not repeat what has already been said by the previous questioner. I too have a number of questions about the benefits of a common system for medicines in our country, the Netherlands, Luxembourg and Austria. My questions are as follows. The KCE proposes to establish a joint central unit or database. Are you in favour of this? If so, where will this unit be located and who will pay which part? In other words, what is Belgium's share in this joint system? Another proposal concerns joint price negotiations. Much has already been said about the kiwi model. Even Green speaks of the sluice-gate model. To what extent do you think this is compatible with the KCE proposal? Pharma.be does indeed agree with the new system, subject to certain conditions. For example, it wants a number of data to remain confidential. Where do you draw the line, knowing that maximum transparency is desirable?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic660x.u50	Mrs Jiroflée, Mrs Dedry, the opinion of the FAGG will be requested for the development of a horizon scanning system, as the FAGG has access to all the data information that is important in the development of this system. It can also inform with other sources thanks to the close cooperation of the FAGG with the EEA, the European Medicines Agency, because when it comes to the patent of the status of the orphan medicinal product, there is also cooperation on scientific advice, with or without health technology assessment. There is also a need for an evaluation of the demands for innovative medicinal products to be placed on the market. There is also the implementation of the National Innovation Office, for example when it comes to a European network of innovation offices. In all this, the FAGG plays an important role, also as a national contact point for the clinical trials. The horizon scanning system will also allow the FAGG to monitor new developments in the medical sector in a more structured way and to provide communication to patients, including with regard to unmedical needs. If there is no therapy for them yet, patients go looking and they end up there and then they see where, for example through clinical trials, steps can be taken. The study of the Knowledge Centre also came at the request of Benelux cooperation, which came at Belgian initiative. We have asked the Netherlands to join us, after which Luxembourg and now Austria have joined us. That's an example. Yesterday I was in Malta for just under 24 hours, for cooperation on medicines at European level. BeNeLuxA is the pioneer. At present the Scandinavian countries are also organizing themselves in the Nordic Alliance, but they are not as far ahead as we are. The day before yesterday, five southern countries also signed a declaration of intent, the Malta Declaration, in order to achieve cooperation. Yesterday we had bilateral talks with all the countries concerned to clarify how we work and how they might do it. Small nuclei are forming. However, the difficulty is that we all have different social systems. There are also great differences in what is refunded. In any case, we have asked the Knowledge Centre for that study. I can tell you that I am in favour of setting up a horizon scanning system. Belgium wants to play an active role in this area. We are not only a stakeholder, but also a initiator and even a pioneer. We want to keep pulling that cart. There are constant contacts between Belgium, the Netherlands, Luxembourg and Austria. These contacts are constantly taking place and that is starting to work very well. I also started explaining the system to the Nordic Alliance. In the meantime, we have also gone back. They too are taking steps forward, although they are not yet at our level of cooperation. Others are still in their infancy. I am also aware of pharma.be's reflections on the establishment of this system. Since this is an ongoing project, there is still a need for dialogue between the different partners. A number of important decisions have also to be taken. The conversations are still confidential and I cannot give you any additional information. However, the BeNeLuxA cooperation initiative is going really well. It is now true that I hope that something will happen at European level as well. Why did we take the initiative in the case of orphan diseases? Because it's been talked about for years. This had to be included at European level, but it did not. We have put that on the agenda, including at European level. You can see that we are being followed, but it has to go on now. That's why I went to Malta for less than 24 hours, although I'm actually as sick as a dog. Three flights and an air-conditioned environment, that's not good if you already feel sick. Anyway, one has to be able to give up a little bit to achieve the goal. Hannibal wasn't drawn on a pink cloud over the Alps either.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic660x.u51	Madam Minister, it is a good thing that you traveled on a plane and not on an elephant's back, because that would have been even less comfortable, I know from experience. Besides, I hear you're no good, and so, chapeau for your courage. I am particularly pleased to hear that Belgium is playing a leading role in this area. It is clear to everyone that there is an increasing trend towards specialized medicines, with the risk that the products on the market will become more and more expensive as they now appear. There is therefore a need to intervene. I follow this matter closely and thank you for your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic660x.u52	Madam Minister, I too would like to thank you for your reply. I think our lead role and everything that is happening is very good. We too will follow this closely. I am just a little concerned about the differences of opinion among stakeholders, about the methodology for the joint price negotiations. There the water between the different partners is still deep.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic660x.u53	Some manufacturers of medical devices are rather reluctant to re-use medical devices. There are several reasons for this. In any case, it was already agreed here that a working party would be set up, under your initiative, to do something about this. We have already received in committee the introduction of Mrs Muylle's bill on the use of medical devices. Some questions have already been asked, written and oral. We agreed with the representative of your cabinet that we would wait for the European directive on this matter. It was supposed to be ready in May. The subject will then be put back on the agenda in June. I understand if you will not be able to answer everything, but my question is how far you stand. What is your position on the reuse of medical devices? In particular, do you agree with the points in Mrs Muylle's bill? Or do you have a different opinion on that?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic660x.u54	Mrs Dedry, at the beginning of this year the working group on reprocessing was set up at the FAGG. His first task was to follow up the evolution of the directive on recasts, which was adopted by the European Parliament on 5 April last. The publication in the Official Journal of the European Union was normally for the first week of May, but the Directive has not yet been published. 20 days after the date of publication, the three-year period for the implementation of the Rect Directive shall start in each Member State. However, this does not mean that during that period Member States should be allowed to adopt national provisions which are contrary to the Rect Directive. We are now in possession of the text adopted and have already analysed it thoroughly. In this way we can draw up an implementation plan in Belgium. The main points included in Article 17 of the Recast Directive, i.e. only on re-use, are the following. Firstly, the re-use of single-use medical devices is only possible if authorised under the national legislation of the Member State and if the provisions of Article 17 are complied with. Secondly, the basic principle is that any person who re-use single-use medical devices to make them available on the European market is considered a manufacturer and is therefore subject to the different obligations imposed on such a market observer. This means that the same obligations apply to quality, safety and tutti quantitatives as to a manufacturer who simply markets a product. The demands are equally strict. It is a question of re-use, but safety and quality must also be guaranteed. In addition, re-use shall be carried out in accordance with the common specifications. Finally, the Recast Directive allows Member States to maintain or introduce stricter national provisions restricting or even prohibiting the use of single use medical devices in their territory. That is where it goes very far. The possible options for the Belgian legislator regarding re-use are therefore limited by the provisions of the Recast Directive. As I mentioned, a certain degree of flexibility is allowed, but at least the different rules and regulations must be respected. The development of a legal framework will start in early 2018, if the necessary stakeholder consultation is completed in the working group by that time. So the working group is working on it now. It's really about something complicated. It is also about a lot of products, there is a lot involved. I'm going to go into my party's point of view. I've been attending all kinds of conferences over the past few years. I don't think it was a subject at one of our conferences. I am Vice-President of my party and I think my chairman will follow me in my opinion that two things are important. They must be and remain high-quality products, even if they are reused. They also need to be safe from the patient. To this end, the legislative framework must clearly indicate the role and responsibility of all. The basic requirements in the new European drafts are, in this sense, a major step forward and will allow us to respond better to challenges. We also have contact with other countries to find out how they will implement European legislation, but as always there are early and late birds. Finally, we asked the working party to evaluate and analyse the legislative proposals in the light of the new European framework in order to assess what fits in and what does not.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic660x.u55	Madam Secretary, thank you for your clear answer. Rome wasn't built in a day. This will also take time. I will certainly follow up on the matter further.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic660x.u56	I've asked you several times about the ADHD medication. I have already asked a written question. I have received a lot of figures on this. In April, several newspapers reported the disturbing news that children taking the most commonly used drug against ADHD, called methylphenidate, are on average 4.7 centimeters less large and therefore have a growth delay. Your answer to my written question shows that in ten years time there was almost a doubling of the amounts reimbursed (and thus prescribed) amounts of methylfindate between 2005 and 2016. That too is disturbing. Methylphenidate is mainly taken by children. Will and can you take measures to limit their intake by minors? The reduction in growth is not a side effect to ignore. What measures will you take in the short and long term? Are there any alternative medicines that may be eligible for reimbursement as an alternative to the current most prescribed medicine? Are there any known advantages and disadvantages? What is your position on this medicine? Is its use and reimbursement still to be justified with this investigation in mind?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic660x.u57	Madam President, Mrs Dedry, from the moment I stepped in here, we are already dealing with this ADHD medication, but I was on the other side. The BCFI website has just published a report on the use of methylphenidate at ADHD and growth retardation. Growth delay is a known undesirable effect of methylphenidate. Growth retardation has already been reported with long-term treatment, but data on body height influence over adult age have not yet been available. Recently published in the media articles that draw attention to growth retardation in children with ADHD treated with methylphenidate to reduce body height at adult age. These claims in the media are based on the results of the follow-up study of the multimodal treatment study, a randomised controlled study of 1994 over a period of 14 months in which various medical or non-medical therapeutic strategies were evaluated in children between 7 and 10 years of age with ADHD. At the end of the randomised phase, the MTA study was continued as an observational study with a long-term follow-up. Results indicate a limited reduction in body height at adult age, from 2 to 2.5 centimeters in the groups treated with central stimulants. This reduction was more pronounced as the cumulative total dose was higher over those years. Methylphenidate remains a first choice for treatment in children with severe ADHD, but in children with mild to moderate ADHD it makes sense to first take specific measures within the areas where the problems occur. If this proves insufficient, methylphenidate can be started. Every year, attempts should be made to stop the medication. However, an annual re-evaluation is already contained in the current remuneration criteria. You know that this was actually freely available in 1999. That was an over-the-counter product. I mentioned that at the time. There were no figures, there was no record of how many boxes went over the counter. Afterwards it was included in the refund with the condition that there had to be a real diagnosis. There were also reimbursement criteria, which included an annual evaluation. To date, no alternative medicines are available for the treatment of these behavioural disorders. I can only clarify that as long as the companies involved in marketing such medication to the CTG do not apply for reimbursement, there can be no refund for other medicines. The Committee on Medicinal Products (CTG) in which experts from different universities, representatives of insurance institutions and representatives of the professional organizations of doctors and pharmacists are present has the task of examining the reimbursement dossier submitted by the company as soon as possible. However, we have no right of initiative in this matter. We cannot decide to examine a particular file, if there is no application, the CTG has no right to speak of it. The CTG will always base itself on the officially recognised indications mentioned in the scientific package leaflet of the medicinal product for the purpose of determining the methods of reimbursement of a proprietary medicinal product, as both efficacy and safety are examined most extensively. We certainly have a lot of attention here for various research in the field. If appropriate, the Committee will continue to analyse new available elements, which, after thorough examination of various available scientific elements, may or may not adjust the conditions for reimbursement of medicinal products based on methylphenidate in the second instance. Besides, it's not just about growth disorders. They have been identified by those long-term studies because the children must be able to reach their adult height first. However, there are also truly anorexic effects that work much faster. The children concerned cannot eat and have no appetite. They are on the verge of malnutrition. This can have far more serious consequences than two centimetres smaller than genetically planned. This is about malnutrition. You know that nutrition is necessary for the general activities to be carried out. I've always been and will be a cool lover of Rilatine. I realize that there is no alternative for some people, but when we look at consumption in our country, it is and remains far too high. We cannot explain why this is the case in some provinces. For example, we have a cluster in West Flanders. The incidence in a school is probably the same as in other schools, but there whole classes take Rilatine. I can't. It is prescribed, it is prescription medication and everyone has to take responsibility for it. I can't stress that enough.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic660x.u58	Madam President, Minister, at least we agree that there is a very big problem here in terms of prescribing behaviour. I can only repeat that all measures that can remedy this are absolutely necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic660x.u59	Minister, the generalization of electronic prescriptions is in our view an inevitable and beneficial development. However, the acceleration of the tempo of its implementation on January 1, 2018 is clearly problematic. In addition to your answers already given in committee, I would like to know more about the practical aspects, because these are questions on the ground. It seems that cases of force majeure may be subject to derogations, but what does that mean? What if the identity card is lost or stolen, for example? What for people who do not have a standardized identity card (without papers, children, tourists, foreign residents...)? How can pharmacists who fear network or power failures prevent them from delivering prescribed drugs? Will they, for example, be able to deliver and regularize afterwards? What about home visits, for urgent cases? Will the handwritten prescription be refused in the event of a technical problem, including, for example, for distracted patients, running out of a medication to be taken every day? When and how will physicians and pharmacists be informed to deal with all of these practical cases? Would it not be better first to inform them correctly by addressing all these concerns, instead of imposing such a close deadline by leaving them uncertain? Is this shift not likely to increase the risk of shortages, especially in the south of the country? Not yet computerized doctors are often seniors. At the end of their careers they don't have the courage to encode their files. They would even consider early retirement because they will not be able to follow. Have you considered this aspect, which goes far beyond the problem of training? Are you advocating a solution for doctors at the end of their career? Why did you decide to accelerate the requirement to switch to electronic prescription? Have you made a preliminary assessment of the current situation? For example, do you know how many doctors already use the electronic medical record and how many doctors are geographically distributed? That's a lot of questions, but they're important in detail to complete my knowledge of the issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic660x.u60	Ms.Caprasse, in 2018, the electronic prescription of drugs will become more widespread and will replace the paper prescription. The paper requirement, however, remains valid for emergency situations. This will depend primarily on the urgency with which the patient needs to obtain his or her medication and the fact that the prescriber is unable to write an electronic prescription at that time. This will also be possible for physicians who are pensioners and who still want to prescribe drugs. This is the implementation of an action point within the framework of the e-Health Plan 2015-2018, which was signed by the nine ministers responsible for health in our country, in which they commit themselves to making optimal use of e-Health opportunities. The plan includes 20 action points. Organizing health care with the least amount of paperwork possible is one of the main objectives. The aim of the e-Health Plan, however, is not to push prescribers towards mandatory computerization at the end of their careers. However, I observe in the press that some doctors under the age of 50 are heading towards the end of their careers. For older and non-computerised physicians, a solution is provided, allowing so-called sporadic prescribers to make electronic prescriptions in a secure manner. This will be done in the coming months. For home visiting physicians, making available will also make electronic prescriptions in a secure manner. The paper proof of the electronic prescription will also disappear. The reading of the barcode by the pharmacist will be replaced before 2018 by reading the eID card. Therefore, the prescriber should not walk around with a printer. Having an electronic ID card is not required to establish an electronic prescription. On the other hand, the doctor must have a NISS or NISSbis number and the patient's name. Currently, patients without NISS or NISSbis numbers are not yet considered for an electronic prescription. This is for example the case for newborns and undocumented people. This and a point of action for 2017 and practical instructions will be given to actors on the ground in time and time. 2017 is a year of transition that will address the identified problems and improve and optimize the operation of the electronic circuit in collaboration with the stakeholders concerned, paying attention to the circumstances in real time. Just like the electronic prescription, paper, which is now the fall back tool for the pharmacist in the event of a breakdown or technical problem, allows him to put the administrative part in order; a fall back procedure for the pharmacist is to be foreseen. We're moving on to a system based on reading eID cards. And the ongoing analyses will have to take these scenarios into account. In addition, the prescriber and pharmacist will continue to provide clear and useful information to patients so that they can take these medicines properly. For example, in the form of a medication scheme. But you also know that it must always be indicated on small boxes. Making electronic prescription mandatory requires legislative adaptations, which will soon begin preparations and discussions within the relevant committees. In this context, additional information and practical instructions will be provided to relevant land actors, competent authorities and professional associations, as was the case when considering the amendment on 1 January 2017. An INAMI leaflet for patients will soon be distributed via public pharmacists. I do not have information here, because I have not seen it in your question, about the number of prescriptions. But it is true that this number is exponential. For pharmacists, most prescriptions are done electronically. There are childhood diseases. It's always the case. But it works better and better. In some cases, there are problems with systems, access to the Internet, etc. However, it is an intense work and it is in the interest of the patient and the doctor to inform themselves. I understand the difficulty of older colleagues who do not see any interest in it, but it must remain a minority that tends to decrease. You should know that, since 1999, the Committee on Public Health has been debating digitisation in the health care sector. Premiums and incentives were granted to computerise the system. Eighteen years later, we're still talking about it. Some doctors still refuse to work with a computer. I respect their method and don't pretend it's worse. Not at all! However, I note that nurses will be 100% computerized in two years' time. Do you see the difference? This is, for example, the case of clinical biology. We still need to know what we're talking about. I heard a doctor tell a reporter that he doesn't want to take his 12 kilo computer in his suitcase. I didn't know there were computers of such weight! Maybe in the antiquities catalogue...
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic660x.u61	Minister, thank you very much for your answers. It seems to me healthy to assign a deadline to the interested ones, because it stimulates them and makes a little adrenaline rise. However, I remain skeptical. Will all problems be resolved by the beginning of 2018? I am less optimistic about this. According to you, some doctors say they're old at the age of 50. I think it's a little exaggerated. That many of them do not have the energy to start from scratch, I can understand that it is very difficult for them. They prioritize patient care and feel that they are going to be out of date. I think that this opinion should be respected. I hope that you will put in place a permanent follow-up of the situation with a view to correcting the shooting in the event of a problem on the ground. In addition, if there is a risk of shortage, I hope that you will advise in the right direction and that things will be done at best. Nevertheless, I remain very, very distrustful, because this is a real reversal of attitudes.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic660x.u62	Madam Secretary, the vast majority of hospitals have an NMR device. This would not have been achieved by only a limited number of hospitals, as a result of the programming laid down in the CRDs of October 2006 and April 2014. I do not know if that information is correct, but in the Flemish region there would be nine general hospitals that do not yet have such a device, five if the associated hospitals are not counted. In the Brussels-Capital Region and the Walloon Region there are much fewer. In the Brussels-Capital Region there are no hospitals that do not have such equipment and in the Walloon Region only one hospital does not currently have an NMR device. If I have understood correctly, the Advisory Committee on Welfare, Public Health and Family Provisions has stated that such a system is no longer sustainable, dated and can no longer be justified in the medical field. Some even see an infringement of Articles 10 and 11 of the Constitution, as this does not ensure equal treatment. The auditorate report of the Council of State would also point in this direction. That is why I would like to put the following questions to you. Are the numbers I mentioned correct? How many Flemish hospitals have no NMR scanner, how many Walloon and how many Brussels? What hospitals are they? What will you do to adjust the programming scheme? What difficulties do you experience in this regard?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic660x.u63	The numbers are next. In Flanders 45 out of 54 hospitals have at least one NMR. In total, it's about 65 devices. Of the nine hospitals that do not have an NMR, four work in association with other hospitals. The Sacred Heart Hospital in Mol works in association with the General Hospital Sint-Dimpna in Geel. The Saint Joseph Clinic in Bornem works in association with the General Hospital Holy Family in Reet. The Saint Joseph Clinic in Izegem works in association with AZ Delta in Roeselare. The Sint-Andries Hospital in Tielt and the Sint-Rembert Hospital in Torhout work in association with the AZ Zeno in Knokke-Heist and the AZ West in Veurne. The five Flemish hospitals that do not have an NMR are the Maas and Kempen Hospital in Maaseik, the Saint Vincent Hospital in Deinze, the AZ Oudenaarde, the AZ Lokeren and the Our Lady-Van-Lourdes Hospital in Waregem. In Brussels, all hospitals have one or more NMRs. Brussels has 19 devices for 12 general or university hospitals. In Wallonia, 28 out of 37 hospitals have at least one NMR. A total of 36 devices are involved. Of the nine hospitals that do not have an NMR, three have an association with other hospitals: the Centre de Santé de Fagne in Chimay, and the Centre Hospitalier Sambre et Meuse in Auvelais. The hospital with an association for the use of a mobile MNR is the Clinique de Nôtre Dame de Grace in Gosselies, which has an association with the Grand Hôpital de Charleroi et Gilly. As far as the Centre Hospitalier de l'l'Ardenne Vivalia is concerned, this hospital does have a programmed device, but so far no recognition. The five Walloon hospitals which do not have an NMR are: the Centre Hospitalier Tubize-Nivelles, the Centre Hospitalier de la Haute Senne, the Clinique Reine Astrid in Malmedy, the Hospital Sankt Nikolaus in Eupen and Clinique André Renard in Herstal. As I have said several times on previous parliamentary questions, I follow the principles laid down in my predecessor's protocol agreement on 24 February 2014. The first additional disc of 12 aircraft was released in the summer of 2014. We note that it took until the spring of 2016 before all these devices were awarded. So that didn't happen so fast on the premises. In the meantime, the Department of Medical Evaluation and Control of the RIZIV is preparing a report to answer, inter alia, the question of whether the budget neutrality provided for in the protocol agreement has been respected. It is only after this evaluation that a further extension of the programming process can be achieved. Meanwhile, I also asked the platform BELMIP for an opinion on the NMR programming. That advice will come in the month of June. Programming remains an important federal steering tool to better tailor supply to needs and control the healthcare budget. Therefore, I do not see how the programming of NMR devices would violate Articles 10 and 11 of the Constitution. I would also point out that the protocol agreement of 24 February 2014 was widely discussed by my predecessor with the profession of radiologists concerned and that they support the current policy direction. Finally, I am not aware of any auditory report in which the federal programming would have been called inappropriate governance. We didn't find any of that. If you mention that in your question, I would like you to give it to me. I'll give it to those who have to give advice. I also have to say that in the meantime a measure has been taken that was also included in the protocol agreement, namely to have an approval number given by the RIZIV for all those devices and that we actually saw that there were many more black devices, despite some regularizations in which the black devices were whitened. So we see that new black devices are still popping up. There's been a proliferation of scanners and NMRs. The proliferation of scanners has made switching to NMRs more difficult and therefore it is also a budgetaryly difficult issue, which has really meant that it must be budget-neutral. I think we will get there, but we need to think much more about the added value of a scanner. The number of scanner tests should go down. Then there can also be NMRs and that number can rise again. Networking will also have to be done for these heavy equipment. You should also know that in the meantime a specialization is developing in all these devices. And then it can't be that one will be available in every hospital of every kind of scanner. Networks will have to work together. We're working on that. In any case, if there are waiting lists or things that are difficult on the ground, it is because too many regulations are still being written.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic660x.u64	Madam Secretary, I will put it back in a moment, and I will have you send you the auditorate report on which it refers.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic660x.u65	Madam President, Madam Minister, the Non-Invasive Prenatal Test (NIPT) is an essential step forward in the medical field as it allows, through a simple blood test, the detection of Down syndrome in utero and the provision of a very precise set of information to future parents. While the cost of the test has recently been reduced from EUR 460 to EUR 390, it is still not reimbursed by INAMI and in most cases remains the responsibility of patients. This has the effect of making the test inaccessible to women who do not have the necessary financial means. In this regard, you answered in July 2015 the question of my colleague Eric Massin, whom you had instructed the Medical Technical Council to draft a refund proposal for this test. So my questions are as follows. What is the status of this rebate proposal? Will a list of criteria have to be met in order to benefit from this reimbursement? Will this test be more accessible in the near future, allowing more women to benefit from it?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic660x.u66	Thank you for your question, Mrs. Ben Hamou. First of all, you say that patients do not have the opportunity to screen. This is not true because the other test still exists.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic660x.u67	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic660x.u68	I understand: your question specifically concerns the NIPT test. I have always said that I want to reimburse the NIPT test for all pregnant women who wish to do so and to include this refund in the health benefits nomenclature. I have also released the necessary resources for reimbursement and have forwarded a proposal to the competent bodies of INAMI to provide for this reimbursement in the coming months. I look forward to the final proposals adopted by the Medical Technical Council and the INAMI Insurance Committee. So it will be very soon.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic660x.u69	That's good. That's positive. For me, it's too late, but for women who want to benefit from it, it will be paid back very soon.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic660x.u70	For your next baby, it'll be in order.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic660x.u71	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic660x.u72	Madam Secretary, this question has been going on for several years. In your answer to my last question, there seemed to be light at the end of the tunnel and you said that the studies on the reimbursement of dietician and psychologist in the case of obesity and obesity would be delivered. The report of the Observatory would have already been completed and only needs to be validated. I allow myself to ask a follow-up question on this. Can we get the report? What are the results, in summary? There was a second study of insurance institutions through the InterMutualist Agency. They would have completed a study on bariatrie and the treatment of obesity. You replied that there was a wait for a next opportunity to submit that report to the insurance committee. What's the status? What are the results of that report?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic660x.u73	Ms Van Camp, at the plenary session of 23 March 2017, the Chronic Disease Observatory approved the report on obesity surgery proposed by its members. It's public by now. Seven recommendations have been made: the improvement of the initial charge, the updating of the indications on obesity surgery, the adaptation of the nomenclature, the creation of a national register of obesity surgery, the structuring of the sector, the organisation of a rehabilitation of the surgical patients and the improvement of long-term follow-up. The Inter-Mutualist Agency has not yet published the results of its national research. We have not yet reached a decision on this issue. We, too, await this report. We can send you the closing note of the Observatory electronically.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic660x.u74	Very good! Then we'll have a report in. I look forward to sending that publication electronically.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic660x.u75	Madam President, Madam Minister, this is yet another follow-up question on Natulan. Last time, you said that the discussion had been delayed because of the budget discussion, but that the dossier would be discussed in the near future. What about the file? Is the refund coming up?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic660x.u76	Madam President, Mrs Van Camp, as I have told you, the reimbursement was already planned. However, the Committee on Medicinal Products has had too much work done with the budget. She'll be rebooting the file soon. That's what she reported. We shall then proceed to the evaluation and knowledge, after which we will take a decision on this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic660x.u77	Madam President, Minister, I will follow up on the matter further.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic660x.u78	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Senesael's 17955 on sleeping aid was postponed. Debates of the European Parliament 17960 by Mrs Lalieux on the Saint-Lucas Hospital lapses, as we have not heard from Mrs Lalieux. Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Hufkens' 17974 will be converted into a written question. Question No 5, by Mr De Gucht Mrs Jadin's 17977 on immunotherapy is converted into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Senesael on hygiene standards in hospitals was postponed. Interpellation No. Mrs Onkelinx's 209 lapses due to the absence of the author. Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Muylle's 18013 will be converted into a written question. Apparently, that was already passed on.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic660x.u79	Madam Minister, in a judgment of 16 March 2017 published in the Belgian Monitor of 3 April 2017, the Constitutional Court annulled article 11 of your law of 10 July 2016 on the exercise of psychotherapy. In accordance with Article 9 § 1 of the Special Law of 6 January on the Court of Arbitration, the annulment judgments of the Court of Arbitration have absolute authority of res judicata from the time they are published in the Belgian Moniteur. The decision to annul article 11 of the psychotherapy law therefore has absolute authority of res judicata since 3 April 2017. It should be noted that the Court had already suspended this article by a judgment delivered on 22 December. When asked in committee, you replied that your lawyer would consider possible steps to comply with the decision. This time, the Court states that section 11 of the Act was annulled because it does not provide for a transitional regime for persons who, during the period prior to the entry into force of the Act, were practising psychotherapy without satisfying the newly established conditions. The Court sees this as a violation of Articles 10 and 11 of the Constitution, since the difference in treatment is not justified in a reasonable manner and undermines the principle of legal certainty and legitimate expectations.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic660x.u80	In recital B75, the Constitutional Court ruled that "persons who, prior to the entry into force of the contested law, practiced psychotherapy without satisfying the requirements of that law may continue to practice this practice, pending the legislator's taking the necessary transitional measures to remedy the unconstitutionality established by the Court." Madam Minister, having voted against this legislation for reasons already set out and on which I will not come back today, I am pleased that the Court recognizes that they can continue to do their job. But the situation in which you have plunged them is unacceptable. As a result, minister, can you let me know if her services have already conducted an analysis of this decision? If so, can you tell me whether a corrective bill will soon be introduced, taking into account the reasons for unconstitutionality raised by the Constitutional Court and providing for a transitional regime for psychotherapists in order to ensure their legal certainty?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic660x.u81	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, on 29 March I already answered Mrs Gerkens' question No 17428 on this decision of the Constitutional Court and Article 11 of the Act. In the meantime, my services have analyzed the opinion. But it is still too early to decide on the next steps, as we are still working with stakeholders on the exact scope of this judgment. As far as I am concerned, I continue to work so that the Federal Council can start as soon as possible. Indeed, as you know, the rest of the law is still in force. In any event, it is May 10, and the same question as that of March 29 is being asked to me today. It's your right to ask questions, but I don't like to repeat myself. You must know that you were probably contacted by the same people as Mrs. Gerkens. That is how two similar questions are asked to me two months apart. In doing so, I cannot say anything more, except that we are setting up the Federal Council and that it is still time for consultation with the stakeholders.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic660x.u82	I had no bad intention in asking you the question. It's a misunderstanding. I just wanted to be reassured that psychotherapists can continue to work as before without being attacked or adopting a stance contrary to the law, since things are waiting.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic660x.u83	Madam Secretary, the West Flemish Environment Federation (WMF) has recently presented a report on the intensive livestock farming and the health risks that living in an animal husbandry area may entail. West Flanders is one of the absolute top of intensive agricultural production. Already, on average, every 450 metres there is a pig farm and there are 11.3 million chickens in the province. Within West Flanders there are some concentrated regions where activities are increasingly concentrated on fewer farms. Those are the most obnoxious companies. Within West Flanders there are also remarkable concentration movements. Activities focus on fewer and fewer farms within certain sub-regions. In Veurne, for example, between 2011 and 2015, there was a chicken holding which doubled to more than 800 000 chickens. The region of Tielt increased its already staggering concentration of pigs and chickens by less than a million. And also Oostkamp and the region of Langemark each tend to be a million head of cattle. This staggering concentration is causing more and more resistance to new stables. The health argument is increasingly being used. The WMF report is based on more than 100 scientific publications and provides an overview of a large part of the health-threatening aspects of livestock farming. There is an increasing awareness of the health effects of ammonia, a gas that escapes from livestock farming and the fertilization of the fields. It mainly works on the airways and binds with the emissions of traffic to secondary fine dust in the cities. Due to the less good condition of the West Flemish soils, there is a risk that bad bacteria will exchange genes with the bacteria from the soil, thereby building up further resistance. This in turn influences the spraying against fungi, which are starting to become immune to treatment. However, the main conclusion of the report is that there is no population survey on the health effects or that such a study is not published. "There are plenty of reasons to believe that there are disturbing evolutions in the resistance and dissemination routes of the organisms. They should encourage the government to conduct large-scale research, inform its population and introduce the precautionary principle," according to the WMF. However, the price pressure forces the livestock farmer to choose the path of scaling up which jeopardises the health of the farmer and his neighbors. Current environmental requirements do not seem sufficient to ensure the health of the population according to WMF data. Madam Minister, first of all, is there any reason why there is no population survey on the health effects or why such a study is not published? Secondly, do you intend to invest in research into health risks, specific to intensive agriculture, to residents and neighbors of livestock farms? Thirdly, will you take initiatives in line with WMF's report?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic660x.u84	Reducing the environmental impact of livestock farming and measuring the environmental impact is actually a competence of the Regions. But should it be included in the National Environment Health Action Plan, the National Action Plan on Environment/Health, where environmental and health ministers of the Länder and the federal level work together, I will certainly pay due attention to it. Because of my competence, I have to confine myself to the question of what the Regions and Communities are doing on this issue and whether they are carrying out humane biomonitoring, which allows us to measure the health effects. I am also prepared to obtain more information by addressing the High Health Council, at the request of colleagues from one or more state governments, to examine the question of the possible health consequences of intensive livestock farming, provided that the Council has the necessary time to do so. This is really a Flemish matter. I can only ask the High Health Council for an opinion if I am taken by the Minister for the Environment or the Minister for Health of the Flemish Government. I'm willing to do that, but I can't do it on my own. They must take the initiative. If there is a problem, it has to be reported to me from the Länder.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic660x.u85	Madam Secretary, I'll be sure to check. I remember that your willingness is great to jump on the wagon to investigate, if that's what you're being asked to do. You also say that you have no knowledge of any investigations that would be completed by now.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic660x.u86	Debates of the European Parliament 18053 by Mr Werner Jansen is a question for Minister Borsus.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic660x.u87	Madam Secretary, this is a short question for clarification. In a written question about the Christmas period, I asked what was going on with the checks on alcohol offences in the Kempen. In your reply you referred to controls in Turnhout, Maaseik and Hasselt. Turnhout belongs to the Kempen, but not Maaseik and Hasselt. That is why I would like to ask you whether your answer correctly indicates that the checks in the Kempen were limited to the checks indicated in Turnhout and that no checks were carried out on other Christmas markets in the Kempen in the last year? It is not a suggestive question, because the offences were very limited. I am simply asking this question for clarification.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic660x.u88	Mrs Van Camp, in your written question you refer to the Kempen, which is regarded as a geographical agricultural region which occupies a large part of the provinces of Antwerp and Limburg. On the basis of a list of the municipalities, which you added to your oral question, the Kempen only covers three quarters of the province of Antwerp. So there's a difference. In preparing the answer to your written question, the tobacco and alcohol control service was based on the geographical agricultural region, which covers the provinces of Antwerp and Limburg. What's in a word? With regard to what you now consider to be the Kempen in your oral question, I can answer that, in addition to the alcohol checks at the Christmas market in Turnhout in 2012, 2013, 2015 and 2016, alcohol checks were also carried out at the Kapellen Christmas market in 2014 and 2015. Three infringements were found in Turnhout and none in Kapellen. In the past, the tobacco and alcohol control service, with its limited staffing capacity, has given priority to monitoring Christmas markets in central cities with a higher number of secondary schools. With the recruitment of twelve new auditors, more attention can also be paid to monitoring Christmas markets in rural areas. In the case of Christmas markets, it is the municipalities that must give permission to place a juniper stand or drink stand. Each municipality must take responsibility for this. If there are only juniper stalls and drinking stalls, of course there will be problems. One should not put the cat in the milk. One must see what one allows at the Christmas market. That's how we do it in our congregation. There's a difference between a buttermilk stand and a juniper stand.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic660x.u89	Madam Minister, I will certainly not fail to be clearer in my further question and give the list of municipalities.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic660x.u90	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Fonck's 18087 is postponed. Madam Secretary, do we still have time for a question?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic660x.u91	One more question, then. I just want to say that I've been sitting here for four hours, with a fever, and I'm really not feeling well.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic660x.u92	Shall we finish then?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic660x.u93	No, let us deal with that question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic660x.u94	Madam Minister, I would first like to say that this question was suddenly referred to the committee of Minister Borsus last Monday. That was weird. This afternoon I suddenly got them back, which is why I'm not really prepared and will keep it short. Belgium has a reputation in the field of medicines. Not only are many pharmaceutical companies based in our country, but we also have a very great tradition in clinical research. Recently, we have adapted our legislation to comply with European directives and to continue to perform so that we can maintain our lead position. The EEA, the European Medicines Agency, is now based in London. With the Brexit, many countries have already shown interest in attracting the EEA. I understand that, according to Minister Bourgeois, Belgium has a lot of assets in its hands. In the meantime, the various governments have apparently been together in the Consultation Committee and the Brussels Government has applied to bring the EEA to Brussels. However, we are not the only country. Ireland, Sweden, Italy, Austria, Hungary and Malta have already officially applied, but there are other hijackers on the coast. I would therefore like to hear from you what actions the government and yourself are taking to promote our country as an EEA site in Europe?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic660x.u95	Mr Janssens, I understand that the referral of your question to another committee was a mistake on the part of the services, which was quickly corrected. The Brexit has a lot of consequences. It's strange, but the first ones to be surprised by it are the British themselves. Britain's exit from the European Union has, of course, consequences for the European agencies established on British territory. For example, the remaining European Member States consider that the European Medicines Agency and the European Banking Authority, EBA, currently based in London, should move to one of the other Member States. There are 22 candidates and, as you said, our country is also a candidate. The final decision on the move of the EEA is taken by the European Council. The June Council configuration proposes the procedure and also the criteria to be met by the new host country. A number of criteria were discussed during the bilateral meetings. We heard another candidate country every 20 minutes yesterday. One criterion is that there must be a very good national agency. With us that is the FAGG, but not in every country such a powerful body is present. For example, 20% of EEA tasks are carried out by the UK National Agency. So it's important that there is. There must also be enough ICT, because the data flows between the EEA and the Member States are strong. There must be accommodation. The Italians have offered the Pirelli Tower. We have, according to good Belgian practice, three possible locations, including Brussels, Louvain-la-Neuve and another place. The decision itself should follow in October of this year. I fear that the decision will ultimately be based not only on the criteria, but also on a political decision. Under the direction of Foreign Affairs, a working group was set up in which all stakeholders are represented, including my Department of Health and the Region's The working group is responsible for the substantive preparation of the Belgian candidacy. For example, a brochure was prepared by the FPS Foreign Affairs Office, in which our Belgian candidacy is defended and in which our assets are clearly highlighted. There are several countries with a strong candidacy. What should be the main concern and the main objective of European leaders is to ensure the continuity of the work of the EEA. That's in the best interests of the patients. More specifically, it concerns the European work of the British Medicine and Healthcare Products Regulatory Agency. For this, a strong and performant national pharmaceutical agency is a sine qua non. With the Belgian Federal Agency for Medicines and Health Products we have an additional asset in our hands. The FAGG is leading Europe in several areas, for example in phase 1 vaccines and unmedical needs. The promotion of our country is the responsibility of the Foreign Minister. In view of the many applications and the political playing field, the federal government is campaigning on various fronts. I myself have had many bilateral contacts, some seven in Malta yesterday. Last week my Irish colleague asked for a meeting. Yesterday Greece, Portugal, Italy and Spain did so. Last week, the European Commissioner for Health, Andriukaitis, carried out a country visit. I explained our candidacy on that occasion. There has also been contact with Luxembourg at government level. It goes without saying, may the best win. In our country, everyone, including the regions and the BFSA, makes the effort to defend our position as effectively as possible. The fact that the European Commission is in Brussels and can offer good international schools and accommodation is a plus. After all, nine hundred staff, especially scientists, will work there. For them, of course, it is also a shock. For the property at the Canary Wharf, which the agency rented, there was a contract until 2039, without a cancellation clause. I would just like to point out that this can be a very hungover. Many things need to be changed for those concerned. That is why yesterday we called for moving, wherever the agency ends up, smoothly and quickly. Once it's decided where the EEA is going, it all has to go quickly. There may not be more than three years left before we remove the institution from Britain. Everyone also agrees that when Britain leaves the European Union, it cannot keep its appetites without the burdens. After all, the British would like to keep the agency in England. However, that is not possible. We defend ourselves as best we can. That's all we can do. Of course, there are other strong hijackers on the coast. Everyone thinks their country is the most suitable. For example, the Greeks claim that they have gastronomy and the sea. Maybe that's a parameter for the EEA. I'm saying we're in bad weather. Compared to England, however, this is a bit better for us. We also have a sea, which is not exactly where we would like to house the EEA. Some countries are throwing a lot of money at it. The rental of the Pirelli Tower is not one of my options or yours.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic660x.u96	Madam Secretary, jobs, jobs, jobs, that is indeed a priority. I heard this was going to be 600 to 900 jobs. That's not unimportant. I assume that you will not only play a coordinating role in the dossier, but also a leading role. I wish you every success in this.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-10-54-commissie-ic660x.u97	Debates of the European Parliament Question No 18, by Mr Hedebouw Question No 18, by Mr Hedebouw Mr Van Hees (PPE). - (NL) Mr President, I should like to begin by congratulating Mr Van Hees on his excellent report. Debates of the European Parliament Question No 18, by Mr Hedebouw Mr Van Hees' 18294 was deleted. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Vercammen's 18130 was converted into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Cassart-Mailleux's 18330 will be converted into a written question. Madam Secretary, I thank you for coming to committee despite your state of health. Our backlog has been completely eliminated.
