ParlaMint-BE_2017-08-09-54-commissie-ic720x.u1	Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, good morning to everyone. Good morning, everyone, and thank you for being here. The case of contaminated eggs has been on the news for several days. We therefore convened this meeting at an unusual time. Indeed, it is currently the parliamentary holidays. But food security is a daily concern and a major issue for all our citizens. I therefore contacted the Speaker of the Chamber, Mr Bracke, this Sunday, 6 August, to request the organisation of this meeting. We quickly reached agreement on the convening of the Economic Committees, which is also responsible for agriculture and consumer protection, and the Committee on Public Health, which has, among other things, the responsibility for food safety and the supervision of the AFSCA. It is therefore a joint committee that is meeting today. I would like to thank the Minister and the Minister for having made themselves available quite quickly, as well as the leaders of the AFSCA, Mr Herman Diricks and Mr Jean-Marie Dochy here. I would also like to thank the colleagues present. A journalist asked me if I wasn't afraid of having an empty room at this time. "Did you pick up the troops?" I replied first that my role was not to row the troops and then that I had no doubt that all the political groups would be represented for this really important debate. I would also like to thank the services that have mobilized themselves for the cause, perhaps for the good cause today, by telling you that a full account of our discussions will be carried out quickly despite this so-called "holiday" period. In a first phase, this will be available in the language of the speaker, but later also as a bilingual document. We will have a document very quickly. I would like to apologize to the chairman of the Committee on Public Health, Mrs Gerkens. She is currently abroad. Nathalie Muylle and I will co-chair this committee. On the agenda, I would like to point out that this is an exchange of views between the government and Parliament. The government will provide information on this case of contaminated eggs. This morning we received a document: the AFSCA report. It will be distributed in the coming minutes, as soon as it is photocopied. Unfortunately, we did not receive it earlier. Some Members have also tabled oral questions. They are on the agenda, because I assume that the content of the questions will be part of our exchange of views. At the end of our discussion, Members have the right to keep the questions, to have them removed or to be converted into written questions. I know that some colleagues wish to speak on the order of business. My wish is to get to the content quickly: to hear the information from the government and to exchange views. I know that some colleagues would like to hear from others, including several groups - including mine - who have asked for Mr Borsus' hearing. At the end of our discussions, we will set aside a time for discussion on the order of business and the follow-up to be given to this morning's committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-08-09-54-commissie-ic720x.u2	Mr President, I shall speak exclusively on the order of business: I regret the absence of Mr Borsus. When I contacted you last weekend to discuss with you the organization of the work of our committee, as well as the Speaker of the House, I explicitly requested the presence of Mr Borsus. Indeed, it was he who was managing the crisis in its early days, it was he who held the information - I suppose in any case - and it was he who said that he had received a report on 25 July, which he had asked for on 24 July. At the time, Minister Ducrame, whom I greet and whom I congratulate at the same time, was not yet in office. I regret that absence. I understand the organisation of work, that at the end of our session we will discuss the other people who will have to be heard. But let me regret that the absence of Mr Borsus prevents a debate in full knowledge of all the information. Of course, I am counting on the government, but we will have to wait to hear Mr Borsus' response to the questions I wanted to ask him. I will return to this point at the end of our work.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-08-09-54-commissie-ic720x.u3	Mr President, it is important today to hear from the government and the AFSCA, but I will join Mr Nollet. Indeed, we are absolutely convinced - the order of business just now will be a very important moment - that we must not only hear Mr Borsus, who was at first the competent minister in this crisis and who probably had other things in mind at that time, but also, Mr President, other speakers such as independent veterinarians, such as independent laboratories which are now questioning the control of the industry over poultry controls. The urgency for citizens today is transparency, it is to hear complete, fair, clear and true information. But, as I say at the outset, this does not mean the end of work for this summer. This is only the beginning of the work in order to know the end of this crisis. Not only the Belgian citizens are demanding the truth, but also the international. Think of what Germany and Holland say today about the Belgian government's management of the crisis.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-08-09-54-commissie-ic720x.u4	Mr President, I agree with the two previous speakers. It is, of course, deeply regrettable that Mr Borsus is not here. I'll be brief and don't repeat the rest. However, I have a second comment. We are representatives of the people and we hear from you that we are now taking copies of the report of the Federal Agency for the Safety of the Food Chain, which is at the heart of our questions. We have heard that the ministers received this yesterday afternoon. I am therefore very disappointed that as Members of Parliament, representatives of the people, we have to learn that we are now taking copies of that report which is at the heart of the great fuss here today about whether our eggs are still safe. I can't understand this. I do not know whether that report will suddenly be on the benches of the House. However, I cannot begin to read and listen at the same time. So if we're talking about getting together several times, then we're off to a good start. After all, today we come together on the basis of a report that we do not have, the report of the BFSA, the report that is the basis of our meeting.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-08-09-54-commissie-ic720x.u5	Mr Friart, I give you the floor on the order of business. I ask you to be brief, just as your colleagues were.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-08-09-54-commissie-ic720x.u6	Mr President, my speech relates to the request for the participation of Minister Borsus.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-08-09-54-commissie-ic720x.u7	We'll discuss it later.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-08-09-54-commissie-ic720x.u8	That's the point. Mr. Borsus was notified only on the 24th. He organized a meeting on the 25th. He said it on a television show. On the 26th, he met with the AFSCA. On the 27th, he resigned and Mr. Ducarme took over. I believe that institutional continuity must be respected. I would say to Mr Nollet, since he is very good at this, that if he had had to go back to Namur over the last three years to explain his disastrous management of photovoltaics, he would have spent more time in Namur than in Brussels!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-08-09-54-commissie-ic720x.u9	We'll try to be in the subject. I think our fellow citizens are waiting for a worthy debate on this important issue. Let's try to be in that frame. I want to avoid polemics before I start.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-08-09-54-commissie-ic720x.u10	Mr President, as far as I am concerned, I am concerned about the report. Today, I have come to hear the ministers, their statements, their explanations, the timetable as set out, and the conduct of operations in relation to the AFSCA for which I have many questions. I think I have to have some time to say that earlier. If we take the order of business at the end, very well, but I am sorry that I cannot have this report from the AFSCA, which will lead to several meetings following this committee; I would like to make it clear to you already, because I want clarity and transparency on this whole issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-08-09-54-commissie-ic720x.u11	My colleague Muylle and I understand that there are other demands on how to organise the work. We take note of that. Personally, I would have preferred this meeting to take place on Tuesday rather than Wednesday. But a consensus has been reached for it to be held today. The document is being photocopied for distribution. I recognize that it would have been better to receive him earlier. We are going – and this is the main purpose of this meeting – to hear, first of all, from the government, to have complete information in order to make all the transparency. The groups will then be able to express themselves and will then exchange questions, answers and replies, as appropriate in an exchange of views. Without delay, I give the floor, first of all, to Mr Ducarme to share with us the content of this report from the AFSCA and his report as Minister of Agriculture since 28 July.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-08-09-54-commissie-ic720x.u12	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to say that I will start an intensive course in Dutch very soon. So I'm committed to making quick progress. Today, however, I will only speak in French to be very precise. You know that this is a sensitive debate. I want to communicate in full transparency. That is why I forwarded the AFSCA report to the President on my arrival so that it could be made available to all parliamentarians. During my parliamentary career, I do not think I have seen reports distributed so quickly. I'll call you back. I asked for it on Sunday. We received it not on Tuesday at 2 p.m., but a little later, given the situation that had to be handled yesterday. I will return to the measures that the government, in consultation with my colleague Maggie De Block, Kris Peeters and the Prime Minister, has had to take, given this counter-expertise which has highlighted a threshold above European standards. To tell you the whole truth, additional information came into the AFSCA report this morning. It was therefore of course not possible to give it to you earlier, otherwise it would have been done. I remember several debates in which parliamentarians asked for reports. In this case, the report is distributed to all parliamentarians. It will also be available to the press. Beyond the measures we wish to take to protect consumer health, we have also committed ourselves to transparency. This report therefore returns all the acts, initiatives and data recorded by the AFSCA since 2 June. You will see that, in the face of events, a column takes over all the actions of the AFSCA. It is clear, Mr Nollet, that we are not talking about the period after I took office. We are talking about the period from 2 June. You will, of course, receive all the information concerning the decisions taken by the AFSCA, when its appropriate minister was Mr Borsus. If you will allow me, Mr President, I would like to recall the few important steps that we had to take yesterday. There will probably be questions from parliamentarians about this. A counter-expertise was requested by an operator who had received a non-compliant test. The latter revealed a rate higher than the European level, which is set at 0.72%. The test revealed a rate of 0.92%. It was necessary to take all the necessary measures quickly, even if – the consumer must retain it – this company had been blocked since 18 July already. This counter-expertise undermines the results of this laboratory. The latter produced results on six companies. Three were still blocked. But we can't take any chances. Of course, we have to check both samples. Such a gap is difficult to explain. Mr Diricks will come back to this on the occasion of the questions you will certainly be asking. It was therefore necessary to take measures to protect the consumer: the blocking of all laying hens whose egg analyses were carried out by the same laboratory contradicted by the counter-expertise; the recall, immediately, of all the eggs of the companies tested by this laboratory; the verification of the results of this counter-expertise which I have already mentioned; the strengthening of the control and monitoring by the AFSCA of the whole laying hens and reproduction industry; the publication of the batch numbers of all the eggs concerned by the recall; the tracing, by the AFSCA, of the eggs of these companies; since this morning, the provision of a green number to which consumers can address their questions. Now, let's talk about the AFSCA report. I wanted to summarize a number of elements from 2 June. In order to be transparent, you had to have this report. The first signal of fipronil was given to AFSCA on 2 June when an egg breaker carried out a pesticide analysis in its eggs sampled on 9 May as part of the self-checking procedure. This is already an answer to some of the questions that have been asked. Mr. Nollet said on Twitter that the facts were known on May 15, and he was right to ask this question, but this analysis was brought to the attention of the AFSCA on June 2. The notification arrived at the AFSCA on 2 June, which is not previously notified. While listing certain elements related to the report, I have asked myself to provide, through a few incises, various analyses leading to questions or judgments. We have seen in recent days that self-control is quite critical, but we recognize that if we have been able to detect the presence of fipronil in eggs in Belgium, it is thanks to the self-control of this operator who has communicated the results to AFSCA. On 3 June, the AFSCA carried out the monitoring of the holding of laying hens, which we will call "A". I have spoken to you about transparency and you will see in the report that some farms are not named. I want to explain it to myself. The office of the Minister of Justice has asked me to ensure that I comply with the prosecutor's request and not to mention the names of the operators and certain firms on which suspicions are based today. I want to understand that. We are, of course, faced with fraud. Fraudsters must be severely punished by justice, because in order to be personally enriched, they have not hesitated to expose the health of consumers. We must work with the prosecution to give it everything that is useful to meet this common goal. All eggs in firm A were directly blocked. The AFSCA informs us in the report that it informed the operator that the eggs on its holding could no longer be distributed, used and marketed. In accordance with the procedure, the AFSCA immediately sampled three of the operator's stables. These samples were then sent to a Dutch laboratory. The AFSCA will tell us, if you wish, how the choice of this laboratory was made. According to the report, on June 6, the AFSCA is hearing the operator, mainly in order to identify the source of the contamination. At this time, two sources are possible: feed or treatment for red lice. Now, the investigation begins. Several leads are presented. On 7 June, AFSCA officially seized eggs from laying hens in a packing station, which had been blocked since 3 June. However, it must be noted that egg blockages and blockages have already been carried out at this time. The following may give rise to questions, but answers can also be given to this issue. On 8 June, contrary to the results of the analysis of the German laboratory which led to the information of the AFSCA, the three samples to which I referred were declared compliant by the Dutch laboratory, i.e. below the threshold of the maximum residue limit (MRL): 0.005 mg/kg. This is why the report tells us that an investigation was initiated by the AFSCA on June 9 to understand the difference between the results of two laboratories. On 12 June, the AFSCA report tells us that the two different laboratories did not use the same analytical profile, i.e. clearly determine the molecules that are being sought. That explains the problem. On 14 June, AFSCA received the latest analysis results. Eggs which are detatable and the results of which are considered to be compliant, i.e. under the MRL, are automatically released while the other non-compliant part has been destroyed. It should be pointed out that the threshold of these eggs did not exceed the European safety threshold, the famous acute reference dose ARFD which would automatically have involved a recall of eggs to consumers. The production of eggs from parts of the non-compliant holding may be resumed only when the results have been declared to be in conformity by a final test. The AFSCA report tells us that the Food Agency responded immediately after the initial notification. The necessary measures were taken to block egg production, trace and block eggs that had left the farm. Contaminated eggs and egg products made from these eggs have been removed from the market and destroyed. Only one stable was released when analyses showed that laying eggs were safe for human consumption. On that date, the source of contamination, i.e. feeding or cleaning spraying, is still unknown or determined. On the other hand, the AFSCA report indicates that it has determined that the contamination is via feeding or treatment, as I have just indicated. As long as we know that there is a track on the feed or a track in relation to red lice processing, we know – AFSCA knows and indicates in its report – that there is a very clear link with a Dutch operator. The AFSCA, following this clear link with the Netherlands, will transfer the file to the National Investigation Unit (UNE) of the AFSCA as of 15 June. On 19 June, the AFSCA sends to the Dutch Food Safety Agency two formal requests for information and questions relating to the Dutch poultry service company which we will name CF and which carried out the treatment against red lice in the henhouse of the farmer named A, and to the food producer. There is, however, information about international affairs at that time, important questions. And it is true that the minister at the time is still not informed. It will not be later, even during searches. According to my information, but Mr Diricks, you will certainly be able to answer this question, the minister is informed after the European bodies notified on the 20th. Of course, it's a question to me. I think that in relation to that, Mr. Diricks, you will have some information to share with us. On June 22, AFSCA controls a firm producing the component used in red lice treatment. This product is also repackaged in Dega-16 – you have heard of it – by the Dutch company CF. This product was used by a Dutch firm for the processing of the holding called A. AFSCA also sampled different types of products. On Monday 26 June, AFSCA reminded the Dutch Food Safety Agency of its request for information on 19 June. So we have a first reminder from the Netherlands. On Tuesday, June 27, the AFSCA carried out the control of the firm named P, which repackaged the product of the firm we will name V, in smaller units and under the name Dega-16. A sampling of the product provided by V was performed. On 28 June, the AFSCA report tells us that it received information from the Dutch Food Safety Agency concerning controls carried out on food suppliers based in the Netherlands. But still no information in relation to the firm CF, which could have allowed us to identify much faster the list of customers of the Dutch service provider. On June 29, AFSCA received the results of the samples taken from the company we named V, the manufacturer of the basic product, and from company P that repackages this product in Dega-16. All results were considered to be consistent. It is therefore still not established, at that time of the investigation, that fipronil is mixed with Dega-16. On 4 July, an additional investigation into the holding of laying hens A was launched to confirm the treatment against red lice as a potential cause of contamination. Material samples and wall samples were made. On 5 July, the report indicates that a more in-depth investigation into company P was initiated with a request from customs for data on any imports made by this firm. On 6 July, in the absence of answers to the requests of 19, 26 and 28 June, the AFSCA sent an official request to the Netherlands this time, via the European system AAC-FF for cooperation against fraud, in order to obtain information and the list of customers of the Dutch company CF to which I referred. A check takes place on the same day in the holding of laying hens – which we will name P. This farm is part of a research programme on the problem of red lice in the laying hens sector. This exploitation was not considered suspicious at that time. As a result, AFSCA investigated through sampling and hearings. I would like to point out this point: the AFSCA also takes a number of sampling initiatives from this period to test whether or not fipronil is present. We arrive on Thursday 13 July. It is only almost a month after a formal request for information about the Dutch company that AFSCA finally obtains information - not all! It obtains a double notification from the Netherlands: in mid-March, a package with fipronil in the personal name of the director of the company that we named P, producer and distributor of the Dega-16, is seized at Schiphol airport in Amsterdam. This package was intended for a Dutch address. The Food Security Agency (FSA) has controlled the CF service company. In view of the results, a criminal investigation has been opened and is in the hands of the Dutch prosecutor. This means that the Dutch SAA can no longer provide us with the information we have been asking for for a month. As a result, the Dutch SAA will never provide the information requested by the CBSAA on its own a month earlier. I'll go back to the suite. On the same day, the father of a person active in the Belgian poultry service company named E, contacted the national investigation unit of the AFSCA and provided information on the potential problems encountered by this company specializing in the treatment of red lice. The AFSCA received the first results of the samples from the walls of Operation A. They were found to be non-compliant. This points unambiguously to the treatment of red lice as the source of fipronil contamination. The Agency then heard the Director of Enterprise E, who denied any involvement and knowledge of the use of fipronil and seized documents relating to the use of fipronil. However, a first partial list of holdings processed by Enterprise E with the Dega-16 could be drawn up. Dega-16 samples are taken. At that time, we have two channels: one on the part of the Dutch firm and the other - of which it is not known whether it is linked to the first at that time - linked to the denunciation of this company by the father of the head of the company. On 14 July, a contact was made with the Belgian courts in order to obtain a mandate to visit P. At this stage of the investigation, while justice is required and suspicions of fraud at the international level with a possible impact on health are becoming increasingly evident, it is felt that the problem is not strictly related to Belgium. On the same day, the director of the company met with his lawyer at the headquarters of the AFSCA. The director of company V had provided additional information on the processing of holdings with the Dega-16 and mentioned that on 13 July he himself sent samples of those holdings, which were treated in a laboratory for fipronil analysis. On the same day, AFSCA received the results of analyses of the samples taken from the B laying hens. These were found to be non-compliant. So there was a fipronil application in this operator's laying hens. This is the second holding where non-compliant eggs have been found. The investigation shows that this operation had no connection with the Dutch firm CF, but with the other firm P, via another intermediary. At this stage of the case, the AFSCA determines a sector, which appears to it to be a Belgian sector. It does not have information about the Dutch firm CF. At this stage, therefore, AFSCA will not communicate via the RASFF (Food and Feed Safety Alerts), the European scoreboard. Mr Diricks, I think it will be useful if you provide us with some additional information on what motivated you not to share this information with Europe earlier. At that time, there is no interaction with other countries. In any event, you did not receive any information from the Netherlands at that time that would allow you to conclude these interactions. On Monday, July 17, AFSCA received the results of samples of V Company clients collected on July 12. They are found to be non-compliant with fipronil concentration values ranging from 0.056 to 0.420 mg/kg. As a result, AFSCA re-checked Operation B with the operator's hearing. Company B eggs produced after the date of treatment for red lice were blocked. On 18 July, AFSCA drafted and forwarded a request for a visitation warrant to the judge. AFSCA has monitored the situation of packing company K, which buys eggs from laying hens holding B. Eggs from holding B are therefore withdrawn from the market. On 19 July, the action was finally cancelled because of the non-availability of the local police and the Federal Judicial Police to carry out the visit. After contact with the prosecutor's office, it was decided to work with a search warrant from an investigating judge. The initial report, together with the necessary information, shall be transmitted immediately to the Public Prosecutor's Office. July 20 is an important date. A search of the firm P and a hearing of the director are taking place. Thousands of documents were seized. I want to come back for a moment to what I have already spoken about, what - as you have seen in the AFSCA report - the Agency is expressing a lot. Indeed, I think that is a full and complete part of the problem. It is therefore only after the prosecutor's injunction, after more than a month, that the first request for a list of holdings processed by the Dutch company CF, which is requested internally, will be transmitted by the Dutch SAA. The AFSCA report tells us this and I stop for a moment: it happened a month without any information from the Dutch ASA. What does that mean? This means that we have not been able to access the list of clients of the Dutch firm. This means that we could not, that the Agency could not determine earlier, with precision, the suspect perimeter which it was able to determine subsequently and which concerns these 86 holdings. That means that to do the tests, we lost a month. This is not possible! When a country like the Netherlands, one of the largest exporters of eggs in the world, does not transmit this kind of information, it is a real problem! But that is not all and you see it in the report. The AFSCA has made a number of contacts and has been given - it is by chance said, Mr Diricks - information internal to the Agency, a report from the Dutch ASA transmitted to its Dutch Minister which states - and you see in the AFSCA report - that fipronil is present in Dutch eggs as of the end of November 2016. There was no official communication from the Netherlands in relation to this. I wrote to my Dutch colleague asking him for an explanation of the lack of transfer of information during the month we referred to. I also asked him to confirm the information contained in the note I have just mentioned, indicating that the presence of fipronil at egg level had been observed in the Netherlands since mid-November 2016. I was able to discuss this lack of information on the part of the Dutch Agency with the German Minister of Agriculture, Mr Schmidt, as well as with the European Commissioner, who seemed to me to already have this information. What does all this mean? This means that if a number of countries, now affected by fipronil, namely Belgium, France, the United Kingdom and Sweden, had obtained this information through their respective agencies, the vigilance towards fipronil would, of course, have been greatly increased. We didn't have that information. We therefore had to base the observation on the self-control of 2 June. In this connection, in the coming days I will have a frank and direct telephone exchange with my Dutch colleague to invite him to join the current European mobilisation, which is based both on cooperation and on the most fluid exchange of information possible. On July 21, the documents seized from firm P were processed and analyzed. This treatment will continue over the weekend. On 24 July, the AFSCA report indicates, on the basis of an initial analysis of the documents seized from firm P, an initial provisional list of operators who had received the suspect product Dega-16. This list includes poultry holdings and service companies that process poultry holdings. From 25 July to 7 August, the in-depth processing of document data and other P information continued. In addition, additional auditions and sampling analyses were carried out in cooperation with the Public Prosecutor's Office. You may note that once it was found that the contamination came from Dutch companies active in the disinfection of laying hens, the AFSCA continued to carry out an investigation, following these leads, as indicated in the report. As these companies are located in the Netherlands, as the Agency points out, the support of the Food Agency of that country was immediately requested. However, while our investigators were facing fraud with an impact on public health, this support was very difficult to obtain. Having already been very long in my presentation, I will be brief on the aspect of communication. Should information on previous tests be provided? As a parliamentarian, I would have asked this question and you are going to ask it to me because it is justified. After taking office, I had the opportunity in Libramont to have an exchange of views on the matter with Mr Herman Diricks. We took stock very quickly of the situation in my office and it is clear that we were hoping for results more quickly. We thought the results would come on Thursday or Friday. As this is not the case, I asked to communicate all the results even if they were not complete. Today, two results are still outstanding out of 86. It is clear that all measures taken to protect the health of consumers, as well as transparency, must be combined. And I want to commit to both. If we don't work on both, there's a doubt. It is in this sense that we are here today, in the sense that we want to make all the transparency and answer as fully as possible, Mr President, Madam President, to the questions of parliamentarians, with my colleague Mrs De Block and the officials of the AFSCA. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-08-09-54-commissie-ic720x.u13	Madam President, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in order to maintain a good balance in the presentation of the government today, I will speak mainly in Dutch. The safety of our food is of course of the utmost importance for public health. Therefore, in previous years, processes have been initiated and control mechanisms implemented through the Food Agency to monitor every incident very closely. The responsibility for the safety of the food chain and the management of the BFSA falls within the competence of the Minister of Agriculture, now colleague Ducarme. It is also the BFSA, which is responsible for the operational follow-up. Following the protocol between the Minister for Agriculture and the Minister for Health, Mr Ducarme has to inform me about matters of public health concern. It goes without saying that, as soon as I know, I will follow such dossiers very closely to take the necessary action if necessary. My cabinet was informed about the dossier on 24 July last, the day on which the then competent minister, especially Minister Borsus, was informed by the BFSA. Quite correctly, he informed me the same day. In other words, Mr Borsus has correctly complied with the protocol. The information exchanged at that time showed that at no time had the standard for fipronil of 0.72 mg per kg of egg been exceeded. On the contrary, all values remained well below that standard. There have then been other contacts. There was a second contact on 31 July with the Ducarme cabinet, which gave us additional information. Although, according to all measurements, there was no danger to public health, the issue had to be closely monitored. That is why our cabinets have been in contact with each other since then continuously and daily from morning until late at night. On 7 August there was a briefing by the BFSA on the cabinet of Minister Ducarme in the presence of my cabinet. At that time, no egg was found with a value above the standard of 0.72 mg per kg of egg. So I also stated at that time that the standard had not been exceeded at all. The same day there was also a communication from the agency with the well-known analysis data. On August 8, the day after, we were informed about the counter-expertise, which was announced yesterday. Fortunately, the agency was able to confirm that the eggs tested were still blocked. Although the agency informed us that there was therefore no formal need for a recall under European law, we, Minister Ducarme and myself, in consultation with other relevant ministers who were in the country, such as the Minister for Consumer Affairs and, of course, the Prime Minister, decided to ask for additional measures, from additional caution. The issue will, of course, have to be monitored very closely in the following days, weeks and months. I would like to comment briefly on the standards in force. In the last few days, there has been a lot of confusion in various statements about this. Anyone who has made a mistake about the standards in recent days is in good company, because even a leading toxicologist had to go on television twice to explain it very clearly in the latest broadcast, saying that he had done a lot of research and had seen the light in the darkness. I hope that here too the light comes into the darkness. It's a complex matter. Some standards are expressed in kilograms of body weight, while others are expressed in kilograms of product, in this case eggs. Moreover, European standards vary according to whether eggs or other animal products are concerned. There are analytical standards to determine beyond doubt that a product contains a particular substance, the famous 0.005. There are also toxicological standards. When the toxicological standard is exceeded, some poor health effects cannot be ruled out altogether. All these standards have in common that they are very strict, so that maximum care can be shown for health reasons. There is a maximum residue level, which is 0.005 milligrams per kilogram of egg under the procedure. That is the value above which it is certain, i.e. with sufficient evidence, that there is fipronil in the egg, so that the egg is deemed not to conform. However, that is not an indication of a danger to public health at the time. Such an egg will never enter the food chain, because it will be blocked and then destroyed. That's how it's happened all the time. The agency has done this; that is something that can be said. That value was established in the framework of the procedure by the European Commission on the basis of the model of the European Food Authority EFSA, uniform for all Member States, and also communicated to them on 31 July via RASFF. I quote: "0,005 milligrams per kilogram, being the lower limit of analytical determination." In the same communication, the European Commission set the toxicological limit at 0.72 milligrams per kilogram of egg. It is also the same in all Member States. That is the value above which it can no longer be excluded that there might be negative health effects. I quote the communication of the European Commission: 'It cannot be excluded that acute adverse effects could occur'. This standard is based by the European Commission on a child of 8.7 kilograms who would eat two eggs one day. In fact, that standard for an adult amounts to about 1 kilogram of eggs a day. I think there will be questions about the following later. We have drawn up a schedule to clarify what we are talking about. There have been quite a few misunderstandings about that. What are the possible consequences of fipronil on public health? The World Health Organisation considers fipronil to be moderately toxic to humans. It can cause damage to the kidneys, liver or thyroid gland in large amounts. Swallowing and other exposure to the chemical can lead to different symptoms. The type and severity of the symptoms vary depending on the amount of the chemical involved and the nature of the exposure: has it been swallowed, touched, nebulized. By far the majority of literature deals with exposure to the pure product by spraying or ingestion. In these cases one speaks of intoxication as a result. A exceedance of the acute reference dose is a reason to take measures to prevent such exceedance from continuing. A breach of a limit value means that, on the basis of current scientific knowledge, a risk cannot be ruled out for the consumer. This does not necessarily mean that there are actual health effects. I believe, however, that caution is needed. A wide margin is applied to translate the data from animal studies into humans and thus to ensure safety. Very few studies have been carried out in this area. Studies in people who have poisoned themselves with fipronil during a suicide attempt show that acute poisoning symptoms are only observed at very high doses. At a high dose, the acute symptoms are nausea, abdominal and headache. It can also cause neurological symptoms in humans such as dizziness, sweating and sleepiness. In principle, these complaints quickly disappear. In conclusion, therefore, I can say that strict standards are necessary and that really problematic dosages about which people have actually been drinking the product are of a completely different order. It is, however, quite right that strict standards should be applied and that the limit should be set where health effects can no longer be completely ruled out. On the basis of this precautionary principle, we took additional measures yesterday. On the basis of today's data, no values have been measured that exceed the toxicological limit value for eggs that have entered the market. After all, the egg in question with the increased values never entered the market. The standards are the same as abroad because there are misunderstandings there too. They are also strict enough to prevent public health problems. The measurements we have at our disposal have, of course, only begun when the problem was brought to the attention of the House. You have been given the chronology on the subject by my colleague. The question I am asking is whether there have been problems in the past without us knowing. We can't know this. We are talking about the period before the first alarm has been struck by auto-checking. That will always be a mystery, because I fear that these eggs are no longer available for consumption or for anything else. That question will remain valid. I'm sure you'll have questions. The Members of this House are therefore now speaking.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-08-09-54-commissie-ic720x.u14	After this information, we will move on to the interventions of the political groups. Who's asking for the floor? Mrs Gantois, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-08-09-54-commissie-ic720x.u15	Mr President, I would like to thank the Ministers for their explanation. Madam President, Mr President-in-Office, Minister, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the poultry sector had finally been able to breathe a little relief since halfway through last month, when all the measures against avian influenza were lifted. Meanwhile, there is immeasurable damage, financial but also psychological and family damage, caused by this fact. It is a fact that we must take very seriously. Public health must be at the forefront. However, let us beware of falling into hysteria and scare-making. We have a number of findings and questions. As a country, we should be glad that this kind of event does not slip through the loopholes of the network. That proves that the control system and the auto-control system are actually working. The sector controls itself and does so well. Furthermore, BEMEFA, the trade association for compound feed manufacturers, is constantly monitoring pesticides. They do 150 tests of samples per year for 500 pesticides. Year after year, for three years now, this results in a negative result. The fact that the sector controls itself so well also opens up prospects for the future where we have to think about using blockchain technology in which a digital passport is awarded to every product. The consumer can then actually read for himself what route his product has followed. Apart from this future music, the first concern is now the consumer, but also the producer, the farmer. Both expect clarity. No matter how they turn it or turn it around, that clarity has not been very strong lately. One may wonder whether the harm to the market could not have been more limited with other communications, with different actions by different national authorities. As far as farmers are concerned, the question now is what legal channels they can take. In our view, they must of course follow all the prescribed precautions. When things are discovered that cannot be discovered, they must, of course, inform the BFSA. They can complain to the company in question, because only then can a bourgeois party be filed if a criminal investigation is carried out. They must also consider what their own insurance can do. We will again urgently submit to the Minister for Consumer Affairs the extension of the legislation on class actions. Class actions or group claims can already be brought against a company by consumers, but group claims cannot yet be brought by companies against companies. By extending the law, companies can unite and jointly bring an action against the company that has harmed them. The damage was caused by fraud, by malicious practices. In this respect, I believe that a group claim is more justified than ever. The question that remains open is who will pay it and how much compensation will be paid. It therefore seems logical to me that the public prosecutor started an investigation to find out who could compensate for the damage suffered. Of course, one can address the companies that are responsible, but the question arises as to what will remain in that pot, how much will be available to provide adequate compensation for everyone. After all, a chicken can only be feathered once. We still have a few questions and comments, regardless of the timeline and the standards and values that have already been given in this sitting. Has the BFSA made any mistakes? That question is open. We also wonder whether Europe has been informed because of the suspicion of fraud or on the basis of the results of the tests. Were the procedures followed? If they've been followed, will the procedures be satisfactory? Fipronil is not included in the checks by default. Should we remedy that? Imports of that product into Belgium date back to 2014. How are the consequences assessed? How come this has gone unnoticed for so long? Are there any users of that product within Belgium other than that one company, or did only that particular Dutch company use that product? What about the use of that product in other European countries, including the Netherlands itself? If it is said that public health is in danger, what does that mean? Madam Minister, you have already largely answered that question. Can a farmer, I think, not notice the behaviour of his chickens that they are under the influence of this substance? In other words, can a farmer notice that there is something wrong in his stable by using this product? One might also wonder whether there are gaps in the legislation. Apparently, Member States use different thresholds. That is then at European level. When different thresholds are used, this also means that companies are blocked on the basis of different analyses, from different results. That actually increases unfair competition. It means that one country can be blocked on the basis of one value and not in another. Is that right? Can we do something about that? I have a number of questions concerning the consumer. Is all danger gone now? Consumers can now find the source of their eggs via a code and find out if they are suitable for consumption. What about food in which eggs or egg extracts are processed? What about roast chickens? They do not appear to constitute a threat to public health. It is very important to communicate this clearly. It also prevents this branch of the sector from getting into trouble. That's very important. What measures will you take to restore consumer confidence in the sector? The image damage is very large, both at home and abroad. The sector had a very good reputation and it needs to be restored. How will you restore that credibility abroad?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-08-09-54-commissie-ic720x.u16	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, what a change of tone in a few days! We have gone from "everything is under control, everything is fine, fipronil rates are extremely low in the eggs analysed, no panic" to revelations on extremely worrying rates raised by counter-expertise, to "we are extremely concerned, we are taking new measures, we are communicating batch numbers of eggs to bring back, we are creating a green number". Over the days, the crisis becomes more and more acute. Today, on Wednesday, August 9, we still do not know with certainty when the first suspicion of contamination was communicated to the AFSCA. The report we have just received on our benches indicates that the first case was detected on 2 June. We can therefore ask ourselves: would we have been informed without the German accusations, without the consumer associations, without the opposition's reactions? Would consumers have been informed? We do not know with certainty today whether the controls have revealed dangerous levels of fipronil in the controlled eggs and how large they are. Two months after the first positive checks, there may still be households with contaminated eggs in their fridge! Two months of uncertainty and total confusion. On acceptable and safe levels for humans, experts contradict each other. But there is a certainty: the product is prohibited. There are therefore two debates: on the one hand, a banned product has been used and, on the other, what are the risks of this illegal use to the health of consumers? This weekend, everything was fine, the investigations did not reveal anything alarming! Today, we do not know how to explain the results of a counter-expertise! We are once again the target of the international press, German, Dutch and French. Our country is pointed out for its incomprehensible management of this new food scandal. When a German minister says that the Belgian government has not done its job and that a minister who has had to destroy millions of eggs says that he has not received a phone call from his colleague in time and time, there is a better understanding of certain titles in the international press that speak of a "headless hen management". Excuse me for the expression! Excuse me for the play of words, but he's speaking in front of this total confusion. I would now like to come back to some more specific and substantiated questions relating to the report which I read out quite quickly this morning. Minister, Minister, I first have a question about the deadlines. Apparently, in AFSCA, there is a clear procedure that establishes that when there is an exceedance of the standard – and here there is an exceedance of the fipronil level standard – a whole series of measures must be taken. One of these measures applies when an illegal product is used. We agree that fipronil is an illegal product if I refer to the report you sent us. You have told us that the use of fipronil as a veterinary medicinal product in animals intended for human consumption is prohibited. We're fine in that case. Therefore, you have a procedure to follow which is the withdrawal and recall of products but also the obligation to make a pro justitia and to notify the other Member States of the European Union, via the RASFF system, an early warning system set up by Article 50 of the European Regulation 178/2002. A very strict procedure exists and must be followed. In view of this procedure, a number of questions arise, inter alia, as to the time limits between the time when the problem was revealed, i.e. 2 June, and the time when the measures were taken, i.e. at the end of July, i.e. 49 days. Today, it's even two months later. I'd like you to explain these things to us. Compared to detection, it appears that the product was first used more intensively in the Netherlands. It would be a Belgian firm that first noticed traces of fipronil following a routine check. Why did this firm detect a problem before the Dutch firms? How could this product be used for three months without being checked, if it is good for three months? What if the Belgian breeder had not done this check? Why, where this product has been used in Belgium, is the concentration less intense than in the Netherlands? According to AFSCA, this would be due to different types of livestock. Could you explain to us what these differences are? As far as the use of this product is concerned, according to the press, according to the lawyer of the Belgian company Poultry Vision who designed the product then marketed by the Dutch company Chick Friends, the product would be legal if it is used in hens emptied of animals. Is that correct? Or would this same use in an empty henhouse be illegal? As regards the procedure and the information exchanged, the Dutch authorities were reportedly informed of the problem by AFSCA on 19 June. I have heard that this information has fallen today, according to the AFSCA report and what the ministers have explained to us today, the AFSCA has by chance found itself in possession of notes, according to which the food agency of the Netherlands would have already been aware of the use of fipronil from the end of 2016. If this information is proven, it is a serious breach on the part of the Netherlands, but it does not in any way remove Belgian responsibilities. We, too, must react very quickly and not wallow in silence like other countries. As soon as cases are known, it is essential, even without knowing the name of the exploitation – it is the law that asks for it – to warn the European authorities. It is therefore important not to drag on in this matter. I'm going back to this couch with the Dutch authorities. AFSCA has been aware of this problem since June 19. However, this information would not have been communicated via the RASFF system, which will only be used on 31 July. Why not use this ultra-fast system of information from our European partners earlier? In fact, the German and Swedish authorities, whose farms also seem to be affected, could then have been warned. Can RASFF only be used to communicate proven cases and not risks? Would you like to clarify the difference in this matter? How does the secrecy of the investigation prevent third countries from being informed of the existence of a risk, especially since the case contains obvious cross-border elements? I also note in your report, which is worrying, that you refer to the information given to the sector and you say that "communication, in particular to the consumer, is severely hampered by the restrictions imposed in the framework of the survey. This is really worrying and problematic in terms of public health, because I believe that the precautionary principle must prevail and that we must be able to inform consumers of the risks they face. I have a question about time limits and procedure. What happened between June 2 and July 20 - a 49-day period? You have presented us with a chronology of the facts since June 2. We know that the samples were sent to a Dutch laboratory, because Belgium does not have a laboratory approved to carry out such analyses. If I read the press correctly, Minister Ducrame told us very recently that a Belgian laboratory would soon be approved. Has this Belgian deficiency extended the time limits? How can it be explained? Is this not a mission that the Scientific Institute of Public Health could undertake? I have a question about the contradictions that may appear in the press or in the words of the AFSCA. Questions arise as to the overruns of the rates that would have been observed only on 20 July. According to the AFSCA, no action was possible before that date. This notion seems to contradict the AFSCA's statements that the presence of fipronil, at any rate, is still prohibited in the food chain. Of two things one: either fipronil is completely prohibited and, whatever the level, all eggs containing it must be banned from consumption. In this case, how was it necessary to wait for confirmation of rate overruns to take action if the presence was proven? Either a certain rate is acceptable, and there is no reason to wait for the eggs to disappear completely and return them to the market, and the withdrawal of supermarkets during the weekend following July 20 was not necessary. If this is preventive, why not recall potentially contaminated eggs before that date? I'm bouncing on what Minister De Block said. You talked about the producers in question. It would be interesting to ask the producers involved since when they use this product, to know how long we have been consuming these contaminated products. I conclude with the responsibilities and information provided to the government. Dates are mentioned in this report. However, I do not think it is likely that the ministers concerned have been informed since the beginning, unless things have changed. Under the previous government, the heads of administrations, the DG Animals, Plants and Food (DG4) of the FPS Public Health and the AFSCA met at least once a week with the cabinets of the Ministers of Health (at the time, Ms Laurette Onkelinx) and Agriculture (at the time, Ms Sabine Laruelle) to keep them informed of such matters. Could you tell us whether these meetings are still taking place, whether weekly meetings are still taking place? I think these are important topics that deserve to keep this kind of meeting going. This whole debate on a new food scandal will require us to examine in depth our production methods, our farms, intensive livestock farms, and to ask ourselves how to really support and promote short circuits. It's about the future of our society. With regard to consumer protection, support for local producers, healthy products for better health, animal welfare, I think it is important not to stick to words but to put into action a real political will. I think we are only at the beginning of our work. Several questions arise. It is important to be able to find answers, to know what did not work in this file. It is about the health of our citizens, what we eat and what we eat in the future. Measures must be taken in that regard.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-08-09-54-commissie-ic720x.u17	Mr President, I would like to thank the Minister and the Minister for the various explanations they gave us this morning. Mr. Ducrame, you took office for these matters on 28 July. I am astonished by your control of the case today and I welcome the transparency of various information you have shown this morning. I also welcome the additional information provided by Minister De Block. That commission was to take place. The information we received was important and the clarity and transparency of the government appeared here. We're talking about public health, which is a priority for us and the government. We have never questioned the importance of public health at the heart of this problem. Caution in dealing with such a case is also important. Vigilance of the authorities, system of control, functioning, work of the AFSCA, when I hear some parliamentarians and some reflections, I have the impression that everything is being questioned! I would like to stress the quality and relevance of the work that has been done. The precautionary principle has always been applied. Why would the AFSCA not apply this principle? This is part of his mission and this work is done on a daily basis. It is clear that consumer concern, clarity and transparency are part of our will. Consumer protection is very important, but there is also a need to focus on the economic sector. This sector in crisis and the families who depend on it must be protected and solutions found. Mr Ducrame has told us about the obvious problem with regard to the Netherlands and the lack of communication which seems scandalous to me. I cannot understand that the AFSCA does not receive an answer to the questions asked in the Netherlands. The crux of the problem lies in this deficiency. For me, this is a lack of responsibility on the part of the Member States. This crisis shows us that more Europe is needed. Why do different threshold values exist in some Member States? There is a responsibility of the Member States in this lack of communication between the Netherlands and Belgium. I think that is unacceptable. On the other hand, an investigation is under way. We must detach ourselves, by virtue of the principle of the separation of powers. The prosecutor's office has to do its job. I have heard various questions about consumers, traceability, transparency, the need to reassure and restore confidence. It will obviously be important to do so. The sector, the consumer, the AFSCA, the government will all have a role to play in these different missions. It must also be said that the Ministers' explanations served as a reminder of the various stages. The chronology is very clear, without flaw. If we are here, it is because, of course, Parliament has the right to be informed; this has just been done. Perhaps it would be interesting for some parliamentarians to visit the field to see how a henhouse works. The AFSCA is here and doing its job in a remarkable way, with the objective of protecting the consumer. It would be good to know what is happening on the ground rather than to come and sow the trouble and confusion here.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-08-09-54-commissie-ic720x.u18	Madam President, I would like to thank both ministers for their presence. Welcome, Minister Ducarme, to our committee. I think you won't soon forget your maiden speech as Minister. At least we don't! Ladies and gentlemen, I suspect that in the last few days many people, including myself, have listened and watched the news reports as they were stunned. After all, there was no news message without a new fact popping up about the possible presence of fipronil in our eggs. A news item on the subject had not yet been completed or there was already discussion about the facts. There was a discussion over the last few days about the date on which the BFSA was aware. There was discussion about the standard used. There was a discussion about the lack of communication. There was a discussion about the danger to public health. And let's be honest - yesterday the news hit like a bomb, namely that the results of the counter-expertise were much higher than originally. They were even higher than the accepted standard. Colleagues, it goes without saying that this evolution of news items is based on the confidence of the citizen in our eggs, in the BFSA, public health and the egg industry tout court. That is why it is good that we come together today and there is a meeting at which both responsible ministers, Ducarme and De Block, and also the experts of the BFSA are present. CD&V requires absolute openness and transparency. We expect very clear answers to all the questions that will be asked here today and perhaps later. For us, public health and food safety are at the forefront. If one buys an egg as a consumer, there must be no doubt about the safety of health in the consumption of that egg. The BFSA plays a crucial role in the control and monitoring of our food safety. In this egg crisis, too, they are the first point of contact for all our questions and concerns. Until yesterday afternoon, according to the BFSA, there was no problem. The standards were not exceeded. But suddenly we were told that one of the companies, which was blocked on 18 July, had a counter-analysis whose results were much worse. Then came the report from the BFSA that in principle no eggs with a higher concentration are in the store shelves. Colleagues, I really didn't like this communication. I thought it was a communication like a headless chicken, a clumsy communication. This, of course, increases uncertainty. Along with a lot of other people, I have a lot of questions. How can the difference between the initial analysis and the counter analysis be explained? Can you trust the labs that run the tests? When will the blocked companies be informed? That's a lot of questions. I believe yesterday afternoon the chaos in communication was complete. As a consumer, I was wondering, and I really don't understand whether I can still consume the eggs that I bought two or three weeks ago and which are in the refrigerator. Can I buy some more eggs at the supermarket? There was total uncertainty. As a politician, I was wondering whether our current control systems have worked well and whether anyone who had to take responsibility has actually taken on them. Should we not, as a Parliament, take measures to further safeguard public health? I was a little more reassured when we heard that the relevant ministers had immediately proposed a number of measures to respond. So we are satisfied that we are sitting together with the relevant ministers and the BFSA today and therefore no ping-pong can be played. The public does not need ping-pong, or games about our food safety. We want to give the consumer and our citizens clarity and security. As I said earlier, the BFSA has a very important task in controlling our food safety. It's also our first point of contact. As I said, there was a great deal of confusion and displeasure about communication, including myself. The information we have received so far shows that the BFSA received a first notification of a possible problem in early June. There were therefore many questions about why the BFSA did not communicate earlier. I also understand that for the BFSA it is sometimes a bit on the egg when it comes to communication. After all, the Agency must also strike a balance. The BFSA must ensure that there is not too much communication so that no unnecessary panic is sown but it must also ensure that there is no atmosphere of suspicion and unrest by just not communicating. I have the feeling that this is the feeling that there is now: there has been silence for too long and there is therefore a lot of uncertainty and uncertainty. That is why it is important that today's answers are given and that we are given absolute clarity. We must not forget the companies affected. Finally, they are the victims of the illegal practices of a sub-contracting company. After the avian flu this sector gets hit again. The extent of the economic consequences is not yet clear. However, an initial estimate we received yesterday through the Boerenbond press release shows that the minimum amount is about EUR 10 million. That's huge already. I want to be very clear on behalf of CD&V. We want the affected companies to be compensated. They must not suffer again from fraudulent practices. That is why we are calling first of all for the damage to be recovered from the fraudsters. But this will undoubtedly take a long time and it may also be insufficient. That is why we are already asking the two ministers responsible to investigate slopes, for example compensation from the Sanitary Fund, as was the case at the time in the dioxin crisis. We ask that this be investigated. However, we are also open to all other possible slopes. It is not only a problem for Belgium, it is also a problem for other European countries. Europe must therefore once again be called upon to ensure that the companies that have suffered damage are adequately compensated. Madam Minister, Minister, you gave us a timeline and a report. Thank you for that. It was last minute, I would have liked to have gotten it a little faster, but we understand that this was very difficult. This has already given a first look and has answered a number of questions that I originally had. When I look at that timeline, I immediately have a number of reservations and questions. The first thorny point is still the starting point of that timeline. There is still discussion whether it is 15 May or 2 June. This timeline starts on June 2. On May 15th, the first autocheck took place. It is quite striking that it has still lasted 14 days, that the results of an autocheck by the owner of a company are only sent to the BFSA after 14 days. Is that only at national level or are there also local entities of the BFSA? Were they not aware of this until 2 June, or were they already aware of it? I would have liked some clarification on that. A second item that strikes me throughout the timeline is that it took quite a long time before the two ministers were informed. The timeline starts on 2 June, but ministers were not informed until 24 July, between which there is a serious period of time. In the meantime, however, the BFSA has already taken many actions. For example, eggs were seized, contact was already made with the Netherlands and official questions were asked, while ministers still don't know anything about it. I wonder what the motivation is and why the BFSA did not call the ministers more quickly or at least informed the ministers so that they could follow the situation closely. A third point that I find hallucinating is that on 12 June it is stated that different laboratories do not use the same analytical profiles. Isn't there a protocol on that? How on earth is it possible when laboratories use different test systems to compare the results of those tests? I would have liked to have a word to explain about that. A fourth observation that I can draw from the timeline is that information from the Netherlands must be awaited for a very long time. Minister Ducarme has already explained this very well. Many questions were asked to the Netherlands, but our ministers were still not informed. The fact that we have to wait for the answer from the Netherlands is a pain, but in the meantime our ministers didn't know anything about it either. The support from the Netherlands could have been better. However, I think it is a good thing that the court did act quickly. On 19 July the parquet was notified and on 20 July a search took place. That's a good point, isn't it? That can certainly be mentioned. We can see that the Netherlands did not cooperate well. In the Netherlands, fipronil had been found to be present in the eggs for a long time, since November 2016. When did the Netherlands inform Europe about this? Has the Netherlands contacted the fellow agriculture ministers? What actions has the Netherlands taken? These questions are open and we do not yet have an answer to them. Another observation is that the ministers were informed on 24 July, long after the first facts. I think we could have done that sooner. Since then, there have been several consultations, but no additional measures have been taken, because the information was that there was actually no problem. In the report, which we have received, I read about the information given to consumers and the sector from that moment on, the following quote -: "The consumer was informed via statements on the website and answers to the press." Personally, I find that quite inadequate. I think very few people have visited the website of the BFSA to find information. That could have been much more proactive and simpler. In the end, the consumer has only two questions: can I still buy eggs safely and can I still eat the eggs I bought. This issue has been unclear since 24 July. On the information to the sector, the report states: "The information to the consumer has been greatly complicated by restrictions imposed in the context of the investigation." The investigation did not start until July 19th, if I understand correctly, but there had already been a lot ahead of it. Why is the BFSA sticking behind the judicial investigation, which was only launched on 19 July? It could have been able to communicate to the sector and to consumers much more quickly, couldn't it? A lot of time has been lost. Moreover, I have the impression that the BFSA is hiding behind the judicial investigation. You say in the report that restrictions have been imposed. Then who made those restrictions? I suspect that if there is a judicial investigation, one should be careful, but if there are problems with food safety, with public health, then consumers must be informed. So I don't like that "stitching game." The communication really was much better. The timeline already gives some indications and clarifies a number of things, but I still have a few more questions. We now know how things went before today, but what is to happen now? Are there gonna be the extra checks? What actions will you take? What can we expect? Yesterday it was another crucial day with the press release that the counter-expertise indicated much worse results. What struck me is that there was again no communication from the BFSA, even though several journalists have tried to get more text and explanation about this and there remain many questions about it. A more active communication attitude of the BFSA would have been better. There are already a number of questions about the checks on fipronil. The issue came to light for the first time through an auto-check. So auto-checking worked, and that's good. But how is it that we note two so strongly different results? The general question then is what analysis one can still believe. Is there going to be a third analysis and what if it also measures abnormal values? Who will decide which analysis is correct and which is not? How do we explain the large differences between the expertise and the counter-expertise? That brings me to the problem of laboratories. If both laboratories are recognized, how can they record different measurements? Who decides which laboratories are to be called upon? Do they have to have recognition? According to press releases, only Dutch laboratories would carry out such tests. Why aren't Belgian laboratories doing those tests? I read in the newspaper that this would be due to the administrative burden involved in obtaining recognition. If that is the case, do something about it, so that Belgian laboratories can also carry out those checks. There is clearly a great need for approved laboratories to carry out such analyses. Many affected companies have informed me that they sometimes have to wait up to ten days for the results of a steel extraction. It is a financial hangover for them, if they have to wait so long to release their eggs on the basis of the results. In other countries, checks only take a day and a half. Why do they have to take so long with us? Madam Secretary, I urge you to take note of that problem. The companies affected are already having a hard enough time. Please do not let them wait unnecessarily for the results of the analyses. The crisis affects not only our country, but also other countries. Of course, there is poor cooperation with the Netherlands, but why hasn't the BFSA contacted the European Commission faster? It did not give a first signal until July 20th. Wouldn't it have been better to communicate faster? Why is Belgium particularly being hit by Germany? Have there been any contacts with that country in the meantime? Why is the Netherlands not being attacked? If we look at the whole history, I believe that there is still a bigger problem in the Netherlands. I would like to be clear about the past contacts and how cooperation with the other European Member States will continue. Finally, I would like to turn to the compensation of the companies. I just mentioned that. I think that we absolutely need to restore confidence in the poultry sector. These are very difficult days for the companies involved. If they are the victims of fraudulent practices, then the damage must be compensated. Let's not think about it too long. What contacts have you already made as Minister of Agriculture in order to provide a rapid compensation mechanism for the affected sectors? I shall then come to my final question. We're concentrating on the eggs now. Of course, there are many derived products of eggs. How are the controls going over there? Is there a problem there too? I would also like to have some clarity about this. In any case, I would like to thank you all for being here. We have already got a little more clarity, but of course there are still a lot of questions. We absolutely must avoid any further damage to confidence in the poultry sector. The consumer must again be able to consume an egg in full confidence. I believe that we must make every effort to do so. We therefore call for clarity and certainty.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-08-09-54-commissie-ic720x.u19	Minister Ducarme, I can only agree with those colleagues who say that you have literally flown in and that you have had to fasten into this dossier in the very short term. You have certainly shown your expertise in this today, for which you are grateful. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that it is our role as Members of Parliament to control. I am very pleased that the committee is meeting today, although it is a holiday period. It is about public health, it is about a lot of questions that consumers have in our society, because a lot of news has come in recent weeks. Very often people do not know what blood lice is or what fipronil is, nor what that means and what those thresholds are. Toxicologists themselves had a problem with it at some point. One has to ask oneself what this does to a consumer who bakes an egg, who bakes a pancake, who does derived products like a little mayonnaise on the fries. What consequences does this have for public health, which is always on one side for us? The chaos that has been there over the past period and many of the questions that have been asked today make it essential to create some clarity. You've both agreed to that. We've got a very clear timeline, with what happened at what time. It is essential to create clarity and transparency. Our Health Minister has also explained very clearly what the difference is in the values. There is, on the one hand, a threshold for detection but, on the other hand, there are also thresholds from which it becomes effectively harmful to public health. It is important to use these figures and those values very well. After all, yesterday we literally fell off our seat when we found that an analysis and a counter-analysis produced such an incredible difference in values. That makes us frown the eyebrows and makes us come to this committee with a lot of questions. The most important lesson I take from what I hear from you today, Mr Ducarme, especially from your timeline, is the timing of communication from the Netherlands to us. The BFSA has clearly asked explicit questions to their counterparts in the Netherlands at various times. They didn't get any information back then. They've had to ask for information repeatedly. That makes me even more angry when we read that from the end of 2016 the Netherlands was already aware of the problem of fipronil and its use in the Dutch poultry sector and on laying farms in particular. If we go back in time, then the fact that at that time we were not tested for fipronil is what worries me most. It was already noted in 2016 that there could be a problem. The investigation therefore continues, but we will not be informed at that time. More, many months later, if we have a specific check on fipronil on 15 May and this leads to the necessary findings on 2 June and questions are asked by the BFSA to the Netherlands, then we wait for weeks with the provision of information. You may wonder why this did not happen from the Netherlands. Why did this lack of information be given? I dare to ask why the Netherlands deliberately withheld information after they were informed of any problems in 2016 and were sure of problems in 2017. I believe that this not only causes us to frown in modern Europe, but also raises a very serious problem of cooperation in Europe between our two countries. What is more, I have just heard my colleague ask why Belgium waited until 20 July to inform Europe. We read in a document that the Minister informs the House of Representatives that Belgium would not have done so until 27 July. In a file like this, it is essential to use the right data and to know very clearly at what stage what happened. Why didn't the Dutch government initially inform us about the potential problem that was coming? Why was more than a month waiting for information to be provided that was explicitly requested by our country? Why was the Dutch Parliament wrongly informed? Why is the Netherlands doing this? I think we should focus on this, ladies and gentlemen, if we are to learn lessons for the future from the problems that have taken hold in recent weeks. A second question that I have not heard today and which I have not yet received an answer to is why they had fipronil tested on 15 May. That is not a standard procedure in our country. On 15 May the test was carried out, while in our country, officially at the BFSA, we had no indication at that time that fipronil had to be tested and yet a subcontractor, a processing company, ordered to test it. That actually means that there were some suspicions that there would be fipronil in it, because that is not tested by default. Why isn't that standard tested for? Why is this standard tested in the Netherlands? How long has that been standard in the procedure in the Netherlands, or has it been started since 2016, when the suspicion also came out in the Netherlands? Is that why they started testing for fipronil in the Netherlands or did they already do this standard in the tests before? These are two crucial questions that we must continue to address, in order to see how we can avoid this type of procedure between countries in the future. I call that not only the opening of the umbrella, but also the deliberate opposition between two countries, and that is actually unacceptable. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, very important things need to be done now. Firstly, clarity must be created. You have done so today for a great deal, but there are still a lot of questions. The case needs to be examined further, and we must learn from it in particular. However, confidence must also be restored. Consumer confidence must be restored. After all, he has very legitimate questions such as what is left to eat and what is not? What do we get on our plate? Is it safe, is it healthy, is it nutritious? Where do our products come from? Is it own production or import? What happens to the export of our products? These are all consumer questions. We must restore consumer confidence in the very short term. This also means providing information on public health. Madam Secretary, you've already done that. You have clearly explained the effects on public health. Like you, I do not want to minimize things, but I think it is necessary to put things in a proportionate perspective. In addition, we must have confidence in the BFSA again. Today the BFSA is under attack and I understand that. This is not due to an unprofessional way of working or a lack of decisive action, but to a lack of communication. Minister, you say that you will take an intensive course in Dutch and I think it is highly advisable that the BFSA should be able to engage in crisis communication in 2017, in which we live in a perception society and in which information via social media, such as Twitter, sometimes reaches consumers faster than the Agency expects. Many consumers are worried, sitting with questions and then going to figure it out for themselves and figure out what could have happened. This is an important lesson for the BFSA on crisis communication. I therefore propose that the BFSA communicates accurately, quickly and transparently in the future. As an example, I mention yesterday's story. There seem to be a lot of problems, but yesterday, when we, as consumers and lay people, learned that a counter-expertise produced totally different values. I understand there are no immediate results. The substances to be tested must be put on a culture and this takes time. So I understand that after a few hours, it is not possible to report the value of the counter-examination. However, the procedure must be explained. It is important to explain to the consumer how this can be done and how it is handled. So that's an important communication lesson. We also think it is important to regain confidence in the sector. In addition to consumers and public health, the sector is once again a major victim of the tragedy that is taking place. It is important that we give the outside world the signal that our food is safe and that we can be proud of our sector. If we had heard more quickly what was going on, the whole sector would not have been affected by what some parvenuists in the sector have done for their own sake and the profit they have been striving for in terms of public health and the sector. Actually, that's outrageous. That is why I think it is important to support the sector and ensure that confidence is restored. I am afraid, ladies and gentlemen, that we often do not know what is on our plate. We are so proud of Belgian products and Belgian food on our plate. We must continue to monitor at all times and ensure that we remain confident. Of the food we would import from other countries, within Europe or far beyond, we do not know how it was produced. Is there any attention to animal welfare? Which products are in the food or not? How are the animals treated? Those are questions that we are asking ourselves. These are matters, given the price policy and the price war in the sector, which often means that the price of a product must be as low as possible against which the sector must fight. This will be one of your most important axes, Minister: to ensure that, in addition to providing clarity and transparency, consideration is given as soon as possible to how the sector can be supported.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-08-09-54-commissie-ic720x.u20	Minister, Minister, first of all, I am even more confused than when I came in. Second, I still don't know if I can eat my eggs in the fridge tonight. The intention was, of course, that if we, as representatives of the people, were to leave this House, we would be able to reassure people about what they should or should not eat. We are talking about public health and food safety. If they are compromised, then Belgium has a major and important problem. Vacation or not, it doesn't matter. We must act very quickly, very alertly and very clearly. Care is often essential in this matter. There can never be any deviation from that. What about our food safety? The only question is whether we can eat those eggs. Everything else follows from that. What has not yet been sufficiently emphasised is the operation of the Federal Agency for the Safety of the Food Chain, which must at all times reassure us and all the people in Belgium. The food we eat must be safe in a developed country like Belgium. I see reports that it is the fault or largely the fault of our neighbors in the Netherlands. But that's not how we're gonna start. We are not all going to say that it is the Netherlands. I am addressing the operation of the BFSA and I am glad that the director is here because we have not heard it yet. It would have been good if he had been discussed in the beginning. We have not been able to read the report in detail, but I have already reported it. The operation of the BFSA. We get an explanation of timelines, timelines that start on May 9th, which I do not hear until now on the European holiday, not on May 15th. Then we here as Members of Parliament are bombed with how well that the BFSA did work because that day, that other day. But if people work well, we're not here. If one works well, then the population is not in the dark. It's very serious. The worst is that a public service does not immediately inform its minister whenever there is the slightest danger to food safety. Almost as much as I don't know what emotion to put on that is that the Minister of Agriculture I am actually listening to but he isn't listening right now... I want to congratulate you on the beginning of your ministry but I didn't actually see you angry at the BFSA. I don't understand. In which company wouldn't such a mess of communication have an immediate impact on the top of that company? I want to hear that explained. I can't get to that. The previous speakers have all talked about the problem of communication. It's with that BFSA that all those communication blunders are. The more I heard the spokesperson of the BFSA in the last three days, the more I thought to myself that she could keep quiet because it only made things worse and increased the confusion. A minister who is not furious about the fact that he is not informed in good time, I do not understand. A minister, who is not furious because of the fact that we first inform Europe and only then the Minister, I do not understand. A minister here says he's angry with the Netherlands because they didn't answer the questions of the BFSA soon enough, I don't understand. If the BFSA had informed its minister in good time, namely immediately after 2 June, the Belgian minister could have contacted his Dutch colleague-minister. Explain to me, Mr Director, why you think that a Dutch minister does not want to answer questions from a Belgian minister. With all the information that came in and the judicial investigation that was started, it was not yet considered necessary to inform the minister. I'm going to be your spokesman, Minister, against the BFSA, because I think this is very serious and I think a lot of misery could be avoided. I got a report from the Court of Auditors. I've got it on me. It dates from February 2017. In that report it is very clear that the Court of Auditors, not the first body to make recommendations to the BFSA because there is a major problem with the system of car checks. After all, there would be gaps in the control of companies. This system would not work properly. In February, the BFSA will receive these recommendations. We're August now. What happened to that? I heard an honest manager took the trouble to inform the BFSA on 9 May. This made the ball roll. However, it could have been perfect that the manager had kept his mouth shut. According to the Court of Auditors, the car control system isn't working out very well. I would like to know what has been done with these recommendations from the Court of Auditors. It is about a heavy report of February 2017 of 73 pages long. For those who do not want to read much, there is a summary of 4 pages. In addition to the report of the Court of Auditors, there is a report from the Supreme Health Council, not even the first the best instance. In 2016, the Supreme Health Council conducted an investigation into fipronil in the context of a question from the government. I quote what has literally been included in that study, because we have to be very careful with sentences and explanations: "The High Health Council says that fipronil is likely to have a negative effect on the hormone system. Fetal life and childhood are critical exposure periods. What has happened to the recommendations of the Supreme Health Council, because people are still saying that fipronil is forbidden, but that sometimes there is another figure of 0,0005 milligrams per kilogram, who still understands it, should explain it to me in the food. I have serious questions about those two reports. I want to know what has been done with these recommendations. Apart from auto-checking, there is something wrong with the fact that people keep saying that little fipronil is not bad. I don't know if that's true, and certainly not for children. The worst part was that I'm still in my second section on the operation of the Federal Food Agency and the government that I've heard over the last few days that fipronil is not controlled because it's forbidden. Hello! If the police say that they do not control speeding offences because they are prohibited, then Belgium is turned upside down, and so is the Minister. Who dares say such a thing? More confusion. So there is a huge structural problem with the operation. There is certainly a lot of good people working there, but at the summit, which must coordinate, things happen that cannot and are very bad for guaranteeing our food safety, for peace in Belgium and for the credibility of Belgium. Let us be clear: we are making a mockery of ourselves. We in Europe are very silly at the moment. If we now say that it is the fault of the Netherlands that we are making such a fool of ourselves, then I think we are still making quite a fool of ourselves. I also hear the BFSA proclaim that the results of the first laboratory tests do not match the results of the counter-expertise. The Minister calls that strange, but says it will be investigated. None of that is reassuring. Communication must be fast, efficient and correct. So I do not know if I am alone with that, but I have serious problems with the summit of the Federal Agency for the Safety of the Food Chain, that it seems to the Minister that it has waited six weeks before informing the Minister about the start of a judicial investigation, which is not nothing. After all, the step to the court is made on the basis of serious suspicions that there is a great deal of unfamiliarity. Now I come to my third point, communication. What a mess! We have experienced it ourselves as Members of Parliament over the last few days. Only through the press could we find information and we had to pull everything together ourselves. For three days now, I have been wondering why there is no call number to which citizens can call. At my house, citizens came to me asking if they could still eat the eggs in their fridge. What took you so long? A big point about communication, which also shockes me, is the standards. What amount of fipronil may or may not be present in the eggs? I don't get it. If it's forbidden, can't eggs contain fipronil? I get to hear and read here on a magazine that there can be 0.005 milligrams in it. In the context of this procedure, the value above which sufficient evidence can be established with certainty that there is fipronil in the egg and therefore it is not in conformity." The same magazine that I get handed over here says that 0.009 represents an acute risk, but when I listen to the director of the food agency, I always hear the figure 0.72. If you think that by confusing figures we will find ourselves stupid and stop asking questions, then the opposite is true. Whoever can explain it properly, does it in human language. I still don't know what value it's worth. The standard of 0.72, which the Federal Agency for the Safety of the Food Chain mentions, to what extent does this correspond to the values in the Netherlands and Germany? Who still understands that?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-08-09-54-commissie-ic720x.u21	Mrs Lambrecht, Madam Secretary wishes to interrupt you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-08-09-54-commissie-ic720x.u22	Mrs Lambrecht, I understand that you do quite theatrically when your colleague is filming your entire speech here. Then you don't have to call your door. However, I would like to say that you did not listen. You really do mix things up. You say you're confused. Well, that's how you sound, too, very loud, by the way. We all have normal hearing. So it's okay for you to talk a little less loud. I am concerned about public health and therefore also about the ears of the people here in the Chamber. You are talking about the permitted quantity in one egg per kilogram. That's 0.05 indeed. When we talk about 0.72, we are talking about the threshold, the acute reference dose. This means that if you take less than 0.09 per kilogram per day, there are no significant health effects. If you do not understand those three sentences in a row, I do conclude that you are confused.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-08-09-54-commissie-ic720x.u23	Mrs. De Block, that you feel called to interrupt my speech, suggests that you are energizing yourself about my incomprehension. But honestly, you just used an English term. Of course I understand that, but I want to be able to explain it to the people. I'll try to talk quieter, but I'm very angry about the events of the last few days. I did not attack you personally, let us be clear, absolutely not. I have a great deal of sympathy for you. I find your pronunciation as if I couldn't read, a little derogatory. If I couldn't read, I wouldn't be sitting on this chair, I would be sitting on that chair completely aside. I am not attacking you; as the only one so far, I have underlined that I am very angry at the BFSA, because the agency must protect you and the other minister. The BFSA is a public authority. The fact that I am not clear about the norm does not mean that I would not be smart, because the toxicologist we have heard over the last few days does not fully understand the issue. I don't deny I'm confused. By the way, the confusion that is now prevailing among the public is also detrimental to the chicken farms which mean very well. You must see that everything is done well and that people are drawn into such a spiral. And that downward spiral hasn't stopped today. I'm looking at the timeline. You should try to understand that. I can't get angry, but we start on 9 May and on 24 July the BFSA informs the ministers. I can tell you one thing, gentlemen of the BFSA, if I were your minister, I wouldn't be able to laugh at that. I can't believe they're not more angry with you. I come to a fourth point, our international agreements. There is an agreement that Europe should be informed as soon as possible, as soon as something is discovered. However, it takes weeks for that to happen. I don't get it at all. I therefore propose that the issue be better understood and made smarter, so that there will be hearings with toxicologists, representatives of the Court of Auditors and the Supreme Health Council in the coming week, so that they can reassure us all. First of all, I should like to address the President. Mr President, I have heard at least a hundred questions here. How will one proceed? Will we reply chronologically to that? How will we be properly informed? How is it that the use of fipronil in the Flemish poultry sector has not been discovered before? I hear it was well known in the Netherlands a lot earlier. Who's responsible for this? What are the consequences for this negligence and dysfunction? How many checks on fipronil have been carried out over the past two years? By who? What were the results? What did they do with it? Why were the ministers not informed in good time by the BFSA of such important contamination, with all the risks this entails for the population and the sector? How can a consumer know that his purchased egg is safe in any store, but also at restaurant and in derived products? After all, one cannot always walk to the refrigerator to look at the number on the box. Is it true that the companies have to auto-check their eggs for fipronil? Wouldn't that control be better done by the BFSA in the future? Wouldn't it be better to work with high-quality Belgian labs? If regulations are too complicated, they must be adapted. We will support such a proposal in Parliament if it benefits food safety. It was not checked for fipronil, because it is a prohibited product. What other prohibited insecticides that may be used in poultry farming are not controlled, or are they? Can I get a list of the products that are and will not be checked, Minister? Are the control services abroad testing the same or other products as we do in Belgium? Is there a list of products sensitive to the food chain? Why didn't we immediately start last weekend with a phone number for delivered citizens? I also wonder what citizens who called that number this morning received in response. If we don't know, how would the people on the phone know? As early as February, the Court of Auditors warned that auto-control should be better dealt with. Why was all these recommendations not taken into account, let alone the Minister's information? Who was aware of the discovery of fipronil in early June? Was that just the dish or others? Why did the government not request and receive a report until two months later? If prohibited products and problems are detected, reports must be made immediately. How will we deal with the recommendations of the High Health Council, which clearly state that fipronil is very harmful to our hormones, primarily for foetuses and children, and secondly also for adults? What is the roadmap in the crisis now? How will you react, or will there be an ad hoc response every day? When will we hear the experts and the toxicologists? I hope that will happen in the next week.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-08-09-54-commissie-ic720x.u24	Minister, Minister, what happened and how the crisis was managed by the authorities, not only in the Netherlands but also in Belgium, raises many questions and many problems. Let me first ask you about the scale of the crisis. Your timeline, the one we've received here, starts on June 2. But how long has fipronil been used in Belgium? Since when are the eggs we eat here in Belgium contaminated? You can't answer that question at this point, unless I'm wrong. If I ask this question, it is because I have before me a copy of the invoice of this Romanian company which sold 3,000 litres of fipronil to a Belgian company. The invoice date is May 8, 2016. Potentially, since then, the product may be used in our industrial productions and in the various industrial hens. It's good to say on the radio that "all eggs from the entire suspected perimeter have been blocked." No! This was true on 21 July, but this is not true given the potential risk incurred by the Belgian consumer since, perhaps, 8 May 2016. So we're dealing with a very small part of the problem. The hidden part of the iceberg is probably much larger. All I'm talking about is fipronil. Other substances could be a problem. Madam and Mr Ministers, I would like Belgian consumers to know how long fipronil has been used in our industrial operations. Are other companies, other than those mentioned in the report, concerned? And I understand the reserve. Is the perimeter limited to those already listed? I doubt you can reassure us on this point. I don't understand. When the AFSCA receives the information on June 2, based on the expertise carried out in mid-May, it performs confirmatory tests. The first results of non-compliance are obtained on June 9. First confirmation. We don't wait until July 20 for confirmation; we already have it on June 9. Second confirmation, June 14. Table No. 4 is also non-compliant. I'm continuing in your own line of time. On 21 June, two other samples were also non-compliant. So between June 2 and June 21, in 20 days, you have three confirmations that there is a problem. But what more do you need? What more do you need to say that "this problem that someone has informed but is confirmed by analyses that I myself have done is a potentially more serious problem and not just a problem related to that one firm"? What, at that time, as early as June 9th or 14th (second confirmation), does not allow you to expand the spectrum? Mr. Ducrame, you weren't there yet. I'm looking at you because you're the appropriate minister, of course, but behind you, it's the government and the AFSCA. Obviously, according to your remarks, the AFSCA did not inform your predecessor that on 24 July and Mrs De Block confirmed this date for her also via the use of the protocol. Now, let me tell you that I don't understand. When you have three confirmations in the space of twenty days, why at that time do you not inform colleagues at European level? Why don't you inform the government, the minister responsible? Why don't you inform citizens too, because throughout this period they continue to supply and eat eggs or egg derivatives? Why is this time wasted, even if it is only the visible face of the iceberg, I repeat, since potentially since May 2016, if we look at the invoices, we are, in Belgium, eating contaminated eggs? Why, in this phase do you not launch an alarm signal when you have information and confirmations? What is the confirmation? You're going to tell me, "Yes, but it didn't go beyond the threshold of toxicity." That's true, but, Madam Minister of Health, I understood the difference. Thank you for your note. Nevertheless, you will agree to say that when you pass the threshold of 0.005 mg/kg, you are beyond the standard for sending the presence signal. By presence. I'm not saying any more! I'm not saying there's a huge risk. I say that there is a signal that is sent and that the supervisory authority at that time must broaden its scope of investigation and must inform the ministers, must inform the citizens and must inform the other industrial farms also because they continue to use fipronil! I think the system has failed. I'm sorry, but I can't follow the MR colleagues who say self-regulation and self-control are enough. I'm not saying they weren't helpful, Mrs. Cassart. Let's be precise! It wasn't AFSCA that discovered the problem. It was a company that reported it to the AFSCA. It's part of self-control. It is still a problem to discover that our market has been potentially infected since May 2016 via a company that gives information about it. What are your own controls over this? I'm worried. But I'm gonna let Mr. Ducrame make a phone call. That must be very important.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-08-09-54-commissie-ic720x.u25	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-08-09-54-commissie-ic720x.u26	Thank you. I'm worried, because according to the information that comes to us - but I use the conditional - the AFSCA would not control fipronil, because it is a prohibited substance. Because she's illegal, she's not being tested. Substances that are listed and for which there are thresholds and maximums are tested. If you're below, it's okay, if you're above, it's a problem. When there's a dose, it's checked. But when it's illegal, it wouldn't be examined. What about other prohibited substances? I wanted to ask you these questions to check with you the historical extent and geographical extent of the problem. I come to the transmission of information. The ministers were very specific. The government received the information on the 24th. I guess it's about the cabinet, and the AFSCA won't say anything other than what the ministers said. It's not just personal information to the minister. The firm was not notified until the 24th. I take note of this information. Mr Ducarme, my question is direct. We know each other. I assume that, when you take office, you receive the report that your predecessor ordered on the 24th and received on the 25th. I assume that you received it at the very moment and that you dealt with the problem on the 28th or 29th, when you took up your duties. At that time, the problem was known, including by the government. I do not understand that between the time the minister is notified and the first prohibitions and communications, the government does not act any more. I'll go back to your first tweet. Mr Ducrame, you are entering the office, you have a lot of work to do and I will not hold you to it. Your first tweet is very reassuring, it dates from Thursday, around 4:00 p.m. and you say that the AFSCA correctly manages the crisis. Five days later, it is no longer exactly the same language, and today you confirm it by saying that there was clearly a problem in the way the information did not flow quickly enough or quickly enough or correctly. As soon as a substance is banned and its existence and use is detected on the territory, you and your colleagues at European level must be informed. Of course, the Netherlands bears a responsibility and you have demonstrated this, but this does not exempt Belgium from its own examination of conscience in relation to the shortcomings of its system. It's too easy to point a finger at the Netherlands and close your eyes to what has been dysfunctional in us and is still going on today. AFSCA is trying to get in touch with the Netherlands on 19 June because the first confirmations of the tests are problematic. Why, at this time, is the AFSCA limited to contacting the Netherlands? Why does it not inform other European countries or to the automatic system at European level when it is known that standards are exceeded? I quote again the Minister of Health: "Not necessarily a risk of toxicity but a breach of the reporting standard". Why not give information at that time? Mr Ducrame, I understand the criticism of your German colleague. If you were in its place and you learned that one country actually knows the situation and informs another, without informing you that you are in the same market and that the eggs can also be contaminated at home, you would probably be very angry about this lack of information! As far as the Netherlands is concerned, I have read the letter from the Minister of Health, your colleague, to the President of the Second Chamber of the Netherlands. At no point in this letter of 3 August does he mention the situation of November 2016. So it's challenging! If what Mr Ducrame has said is true, it is challenging, but it must be dealt with in the Netherlands. On the other hand, he speaks well of the date of June 19 and he also refers to the fact that, for them, as soon as the standard of reporting of 0.005 mg/kg is exceeded, an intervention is necessary. However, Belgium considers that there is no problem! We refer to the other standard and intervene if the threshold of 0.79 mg/kg is exceeded! First of all, I don't think that's the right way to react. This raises questions of system differences between the Netherlands and Belgium. But according to the observation of the very first information you receive, which is shown in the table, we are 1.2 ppm. So we are well above the health toxicity threshold. This is first information; it must be confirmed; we agree! But at that time, the signal is not only to see the existence of fipronil on our territory - if the government is not informed about it, the AFSCA has this information - but to warn, because we go beyond the threshold of toxicity and then we confirm that there is no toxicity because we are below the threshold of toxicity until the counter-expertise comes into play. Now I can't find the word, but "it's the pompom"!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-08-09-54-commissie-ic720x.u27	Mr Nollet, your speech gives the impression that nothing is done when the test results indicate that it is not in conformity and later below the European level of toxicity. When AFSCA detects non-compliant samples, the operation is blocked! The way you talk about it gives the impression that, as long as you're not above 0.72 mg/kg, you're not going to do anything. These farms are obviously blocked! That is why a number of operators are asking for a counter-expertise. In doing so, they enable the holding to be unlocked, which would otherwise have been blocked as long as the results have been declared non-compliant.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-08-09-54-commissie-ic720x.u28	Mr Minister, would I dare say that 'all that would be missing', that this farm is not closed? What I accuse the Belgian authorities is that from the moment they find that a farm is a problem - which is confirmed by three tests in 20 days - they do not widen the spectrum of control! The AFSCA, with its controller cap, should check whether this confirmed problem does not exist as elsewhere. Indeed, we do not yet have confirmation at the time, but this is potentially the use of fipronil. You yourself, in your capacity as minister, didn't you say, when you discovered the file, that it was abnormal to have stayed on control and then shut down that one business? Didn't you think that common sense meant checking elsewhere? Tell me sincerely!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-08-09-54-commissie-ic720x.u29	You must know that a monitoring has been launched.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-08-09-54-commissie-ic720x.u30	There! And when? August 8th!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-08-09-54-commissie-ic720x.u31	No, no!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-08-09-54-commissie-ic720x.u32	Monitoring elsewhere is complementary.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-08-09-54-commissie-ic720x.u33	A monitoring exercise had already begun. What do we do with it? I think you'll confirm it was the 31st or the 1st. With AFSCA, we are working to strengthen controls over the entire laying and breeding hens industry. The measure we took yesterday aims to strengthen monitoring and thus also control the whole sector.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-08-09-54-commissie-ic720x.u34	Minister, if I heard you correctly, are you talking about a monitoring on July 31? The problem that I am highlighting arises during the month of June. When we have three confirmations in June, the last one falling on 21 June, we must not wait until 31 July - if that is the right date because your remarks were not very audible - but I understand your caution in this matter. My request is this: from the moment you receive three confirmations, is it not at that time that you have to launch the monitoring, namely the broadening of the spectrum of evaluation? But you'll answer me. I come back to the argument initially used to justify the lack of communication, namely "the secrecy of the investigation". Today, we are talking about precise non-communication as to the name of the company. I understand it and I respect it, you've heard it in my speech. A few days ago, we were talking about a global investigation secret, preventing communication. But you intervened and made that change. And here I am, I agree with you and I share what you have said on the radio. I can also repeat on this point your very clear statement: "The secrecy of the instruction is not an argument. Consumer protection must prevail." When you say that, I follow you, minister, but admit that this is not what was done before that speech! And that is the problem! As an argument, this poses a real problem, especially since the prosecutor's office, if I have read your picture correctly, is informed only around the 17th, 18th or 19th of July – I no longer have the date in mind. The Public Prosecutor's Office cannot, therefore, direct you not to communicate when it does not have the information. But before that, when you have confirmations, you must at least inform the potentially affected farmers who could have checked at home. But, no, it's silence, because we protect the system first. Let me say that this is not always the attitude that AFSCA has adopted in certain cases, certainly less industrial and more artisanal. From this point of view, I understand farmers and FUGEA in particular who say "double standards". I cannot accept it, I cannot follow it either, but I agree that this is not the heart of today's debate. And at AFSCA, what makes you change your attitude in communication? Why suddenly on August 7 or 8, the problem of the secrecy of the investigation no longer exists? Because the minister intervened. And he was right to do it. That's my assumption, of course. I come to the control system that I have already discussed before, like some colleagues who have spoken on the Court of Auditors. I would like to know what follow-up was carried out by the government – by your predecessor, Mr Ducrame – on the basis of the Court of Auditors' report. In the context of the supplementary work, I shall return to the fact that we can be given a precise report on what has been set up following this report by the Court of Auditors. I would like AFSCA to answer to us about the credibility of control since without the intervention of a company, we would never have known anything. One more word about the counter-expertise. It was not the AFSCA that requested it, it was the operator. Here, too, I wonder. When in the Netherlands the results appeared more worrying than in Belgium, did you ever imagine, at the AFSCA level, that a counter-expertise could be useful? Now that a counter-expertise contradicts what you said, you are asking for an analysis of the counter-expertise! Logical since it contradicts what has been said! Why, at no time, did you not think that it would be useful to ask yourself for a counter-expertise? In my view, there is a flaw in the control system. When the Netherlands published their results, I suppose you stopped! I have a question for you, Mr. Ducrame. If I understood your communications from yesterday, you're limiting the counter-expertise to the six batches in the lab. I understand that for the rest, it was more blurry. So I ask you to be specific about that. Is it agreed that the counter-expertise will concern all farms and not only the six batches tested by the laboratory that give a contrary result?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-08-09-54-commissie-ic720x.u35	As I said, I think quite clearly, six farms have been tested by a laboratory. This laboratory is contradicted by the counter-expertise requested by an operator. This is where we have exceeded the European threshold of 0.92. What is our reaction? There will be a check based on the two samples retained. Pending this verification, there is, of course, doubt as to the other results produced by this laboratory, which tested only 6 out of 86 farms. So, of course, it is not a question of calling into question all the analyses but only those contradicted by the counter-expertise, so those which affect the six farms that we have decided to block and for which we have taken the measures that you know.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-08-09-54-commissie-ic720x.u36	So I understand that there will be no counter-expertise on the other farms than the six involved? That's special! When the results suit you, you do not ask for counter-expertise but when the results do not suit you, you do a counter-expertise and an analysis of it. Frankly!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-08-09-54-commissie-ic720x.u37	Mr Nollet, as far as the counter-expertise is concerned, it is the operator who asks for the counter-expertise.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-08-09-54-commissie-ic720x.u38	Therefore, the AFSCA can never ask for a counter-expertise? To say she has doubts about the outcome?- Is that what you're saying? When the Netherlands says that there is a more important problem than we see in us, should we not say that there is somewhere there... And even randomly, Mr. Ducrame, if I can give you a pole, do it randomly, choose a dozen farms from among those that have been tested elsewhere, and redo a counter-expertise! I see that it is when there is a problem with a expected outcome that a counter-expertise is achieved and not when one wants to ensure the absence of a public health problem. We'll come back. There's still a problem with guardianship, Mrs. De Block. As Minister of Public Health, don't you think it's more than urgent to reverse the responsibilities and take over responsibility for AFSCA? Isn't this the right time to ask the government? At the time the system was put in place, Magda Aelvoet was the competent minister, as Minister of Health. Then in 2007, a minister (of agriculture) demanded that this tutelage be received. Wouldn't it be normal for you to reverse the roles? There must be a memorandum of understanding with the Minister of Agriculture, but the responsibility for guardianship rests with Public Health and the citizen for the protection of the citizen. I would be remiss if I did not mention the responsibility of the Michel government, which decided to reduce the allocation to the AFSCA by 18%, which effectively limits its ability to act. About 10% less checks are performed. It is not without reason that problems arise! I spoke about the standard, but things are clear: the product is banned, that's all. Hold it! There is no need to talk about 0.006 or 0.008! It's forbidden! Its presence is detected from 0.005. I don't think I'm wrong, minister. It's very simple. As soon as we exceed this rate, we find ourselves in illegality and we have to intervene! We didn't, and I'm sorry. With regard to compensation – some colleagues have said and I agree with them – it is extremely important that farms which do not have any responsibility in this area should be compensated. I would like to know what contacts you have made or are going to make with regional governments to put it in place very quickly. Last night again, very late, on the phone, I had the testimony of a farmer who explained to me that – it's very particular and it might interest the AFSCA – in his situation, he was out of business at the beginning of April, so long before June 2nd, by a firm that is not the firm AAA, BBB – I know how to put the names behind the firms but I won't say them – but another firm. She unmarketed it and sprayed it on April 20th. The eggs of this holding have been blocked since 28 July: 30,000 eggs per day. Three weeks without income. On the other hand, you have to buy food for the chickens, of course. On the other hand, you have to pay the rent or other expenses, of course. Don't drag around to set up a system of compensation and support for these people who have been exploited by the industry behind, without mentioning a name since we can't do it at this stage – and I respect that will of the company! Don't hang out! It is not normal for them to be the first victims alongside the citizens. For the good information, the test of this company lost in arcanes somewhere between Belgium and the Netherlands and so, we came back, a few days ago, looking for eggs because we had lost the results of the first test. It also delays the moment when it has the information, but this is for the AFSCA and it is for it to manage. I think she knows the situation. In any case, I hope that she knows these situations and that she will be able to remedy them very quickly. I know, Mr. President, I've been a long time, but you're aware that we're at the heart of a problem system. It's not an epiphenomena. This is not the situation of a company. It's a problem. It's a failed control system. It's a system that needs to be able to change. It is the AFSCA software that needs to change in order to change the model of agricultural production and consumption. We need to move from an agrochemical system to an agro-ecological system.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-08-09-54-commissie-ic720x.u39	Thank you very much, Mr. Nollet. You know that I am a president who lets colleagues talk and let them express what they want to express. I think you're less on this file than on nuclear. However, I have a request from a few colleagues to take a small technical or even health break of five minutes. I therefore propose a five-minute break.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-08-09-54-commissie-ic720x.u40	Colleagues, if the minister is available, we will be able to resume our work. After this little break, I ask you to recentre yourself to listen to Mr. de Lamotte's speech.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-08-09-54-commissie-ic720x.u41	Mr President, Minister, Minister, this issue concerns us all; it concerns every citizen. The egg is a basic ingredient, which is found in every refrigerator in Belgium and, I imagine, in the world. It is the basis of our diet. Trust in this production is broken. Not all producers are concerned. Organic producers on the market do important work on the quality of their production. Unfortunately, some producers use prohibited processes or products. Minister, Minister, in your presentation, you mentioned this product, Fipronil, which for us is a prohibited product. As it is a prohibited product, there is no reference to standards, traces, capacity, resistance or otherwise to this toxicity. It's a prohibited product. It was used. So there's fraud. Words must be said, things must be clear. In your speech, minister, minister, you refer to fipronil as moderately or weakly dangerous, depending on the quantity. I feel like you're taking things lightly, that you're saying, "It's okay." Yes, it's serious. It's illegal. It's an illegal product. It's not about using it. As far as we are concerned, if it has been used, it is a fraud. Today, you must, and the AFSCA must, make the verification of the products used clear and transparent. Have the products controlled by AFSCA been properly verified? Does the PSAB carry out controls on illegal products? That's a question I'm asking you. Is it not just checking those who are on the market and who are legal? Have any other illegal products escaped controls? According to your assertions and Mr. Ducarme's explanation, the problematic samples date back to May 9. Although on June 2, the first results fall, the AFSCA is aware. What then is the precautionary principle and how to apply it? In preparing for this meeting, I went back to the recommendations of the Dioxin Committee. When there is a control in a facility, veterinarians must be attentive to a number of things. Recommendation 3.2 of this Committee of 1999 states that "it is appropriate to extend this obligation of control – I am talking about approved veterinarians – to all abnormal findings that may affect food safety". I imagine that veterinarians also go to places where plant health care and treatment products are stored. The Order of Veterinarians must be associated with this essential regulatory development. Has this been done on this issue of verification of prohibited products? I come to the question of future controls. Have you already anticipated further controls, including on egg products manufactured by caterers or large industry. What controls have been carried out? With which laboratories? I would like to know the list of approved laboratories that carry out the checks for you. I want to know whether, as the Dioxin Commission mentioned in 1999, the Federal Agency has its own reference laboratory. Is this Belgian reference laboratory for carrying out the checks effective? Is it approved, how and by whom? In this regard, we have heard of all laboratories, particularly abroad. I have doubts about the presentation made by Mrs and Mr President-in-Office of the Council and I would like to refer to them. I have doubts, Madam Minister, because today, in committee, this is the first of your interventions since the beginning of this crisis. I did not hear you as Minister of Public Health being particularly active on the issue, given the food safety that our fellow citizens are asking for for their egg consumption in the context that concerns us. I have problems with this situation and I would like to hear from you about this precautionary principle in terms of food safety. Secondly, in relation to the problem of AFSCA, we are confronted with the communication policy referred to in Mr Ducrame's note which did not present it as such. I am concerned about the readability of this communication vis-à-vis the consumer citizen. Things aren't clear. No later than today, on live sites, you change batch numbers. This communication appears a little confused. I therefore wish I had more information. Are there clear communication processes to reassure you about what's really happening? Like my colleague, I am a little worried about this fipronil problem because the invoices for the interventions date back to 2016. How long have consumers been potentially confronted with this insecticide? No one can answer that question at the moment, which is why I am asking you. Could the AFSCA have been notified earlier? I now come to the obligation of veterinarians to monitor the entire production. How can we explain a period of two and now three months, since the date of May 9 was quoted, between the first notification and the time that the AFSCA has sufficient information to take action? Could the precautionary principle not have been applied earlier and should withdrawal measures not have been applied as early as June? I would remind you that, even if the principle of secrecy of the investigation exists and the prosecutor's office gives you a number of comments, we can read this in recommendations 3.3 of the "Dioxin" commission: "Contacts with the prosecutor's office and the judiciary will be subject to a specific procedure for the drafting of pro justitia by the competent inspectors and for their follow-up." I am concerned about the follow-up to these pro justitia, particularly with regard to banned products. In the last few days, you've published a number of chiffes. That is the least we can do to clarify this situation. But would the AFSCA have communicated about the problem if the Netherlands and Germany had not done so? So, would there actually have been this communication? A doubt comes to mind. Are there no other contamination situations that have remained secret? Are there no other situations that have remained unknown to the public with regard to the safety of the food chain? It's really about all the information. When I hear the timetable set out by Mr Ducarme, I note that Europe was notified on 20 July and the Belgian ministers on 24 July. Do we find this logical? If I had been a minister, I would have appreciated only moderately if the European communication had preceded the communication to the Belgian Government. I wonder about these situations. That's for communication. I want clarity and transparency to be pursued in any case, and I will be intransigent about it. A number of issues arise, particularly in relation to producers on the market, who question their own production. Compared also to federated entities and regions. In general, will you improve the exchange of information with the regional authorities and organisations involved in agriculture? At the moment, I hear nothing, except recriminations, in any case on the French-speaking side of the country. Second question. Minister, I would have liked more explanation on the clarification of the thresholds cited. Under these thresholds, what are the measures to be taken for eggs, whether for consumption or egg products? In this sense, what are the AFSCA's injunctions to distributors? Is a communication made to them and can we know it? How is the monitoring programme organised, particularly with regard to the poultry holdings concerned? Are these all holdings or only those of chickens, laying stock or broilers? Are there any nuances? What is the time frame for obtaining the results of all sampling? For now, it's slow. Are farms blocked pending results? Who is responsible for the costs of the analysis? How many Belgian laboratories are approved for this analysis? How was the selection made? Can we have a complete list of approved laboratories? What is the cost of this analysis? Is there any knowledge of the use of this product in broiler farms? Has the notification of Belgium at European level provoked reactions in other Member States, with a possible risk of an embargo on Belgian eggs? This is important because the external market is also concerned, as is the image of Belgium. What is the distribution of frozen farms in Flanders and Wallonia? Between chicken and laying farms? Between conventional and organic farms? How many farms are actually blocked in our country? Can it be said that the eggs proposed in the trade are healthy, even if the monitoring is not complete? As far as producers are concerned, what about the eggs delivered to the egg merchant but which are currently blocked at home? Who pays the bill for eggs that have to be destroyed? What decision will the AFSCA take if residues are found in the silts? What thresholds will be taken into account? We are now in the midst of a period of application, Minister, you know that. It is imperative to know quickly whether there are no environmental or health risks to be spread. Then comes the question of compensation-indemnification of producers. What fund will be activated? Will the Federal Health Fund be activated? If so, within what time frame? It is the producers who contribute to this fund. What procedures will be put in place? How will organisations and breeders be informed? Will any losses be borne since there is clearly a fraud or a communication problem? These are the comments I wanted to make in relation to the producers on the clarification of this situation. I now turn to the problem of anticipation in relation to meat. I've already talked about it. I would indeed have hoped that we could continue our work. I will come with that, Mr President, in the order of business, but I raise the problem now. We feel on the side of the AFSCA decisions that are made with a calendar (9 May - 2 June) and then communications to the government on 24 July - distant date - and a non-information of the consumer. That's not acceptable! It is not acceptable to be so late. What really happened? Why so much time? Is it not time, after fifteen years of operation, to launch an audit of the AFSCA, to see how things are going? Especially since the feeling is very different with regard to industrial and artisanal holdings. The manner in which inspections are carried out must be analysed, as well as the manner in which they are made public, the penalties which may arise from inspections. I ask that an audit be organised with parliamentary oversight. There are committees in this Parliament that control other bodies. There is, for example, Committee P. A controller that is not controlled, it is not normal.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-08-09-54-commissie-ic720x.u42	Thank you, Mr de Lamotte; I have noted your proposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-08-09-54-commissie-ic720x.u43	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to thank you for organizing this committee, which is important to compensate for the time it took to become aware of the problem that brings us all together. It deals with health and food safety, consumer rights and related precautionary principles. We are concerned about the way the analyses were conducted. Today, the question we are asking ourselves is: what eggs can we still eat if we do not have a hen at the bottom of the garden? We are concerned when we hear that the Netherlands is the largest exporter of eggs. I have been very attentive to what Mr Nollet, my colleague Ecolo, has said on this subject. What are we going to do to control companies other than those mentioned in the report? I think it's really important. We cannot limit ourselves to the few undertakings included in the report. A lot has been said. I'm going to go straight to a few questions. It is obvious that, like many of my colleagues, we would have liked to have heard Mr Borsus. He was heavily occupied by his transfer to the Walloon government. It is a pity that, as soon as he became aware of the file, he did not officially communicate to the public. I would like some clarification of the reports. We received a copy today. Is this a summary of a report that was forwarded by the AFSCA on July 25 to Mr. Borsus? Or is it a condensed version of the two reports, with the one that Mr Ducrame received yesterday? Article 7 of the Act of 4 February 2000 establishing the AFSCA provides that the Advisory Committee of the AFSCA shall involve all the partners of the AFSCA, namely representatives of consumer organisations, professional associations, animal protection companies and representatives of the services concerned. Can the AFSCA Advisory Committee meet at the request of the appropriate minister, for example in the event of a crisis? Has this committee met since the beginning of June? If so, what were the conclusions? If not, why did the Minister not convene this advisory committee? I have a few questions to ask both Mrs De Block and Mr Ducrame. What conclusions do you draw from the AFSCA's detailed report? Did Minister Borsus inform you of the scandal during your transfer of authority, Mr. Ducrame? You have stated in the press that every effort will be made to ensure that the tests are carried out in Belgium. Could you be more specific on this point? What are you looking at in practice so as not to depend on the expertise of foreign laboratories anymore? How does the federal government intend to restore Belgium's credibility to neighbouring countries? I am thinking in particular of Germany. How do you intend to ensure both the health of consumers and the sustainability of the activities of our farmers, and in particular of small poultry producers who already pay and will still pay the price of the negligence of the authorities? Did the Netherlands sell eggs in Belgium? Since it is a large exporter, what is known about the import of eggs from the Netherlands? Will compensation for producers who have not used fipronil but who are undoubtedly affected by the crisis and consumer distrust be provided? Why is fipronil not systematically controlled? How can we be sure that consumers can be reassured? Here are some questions. I obviously reserve myself for questions about the AFSCA when it has been explained. In conclusion, Mr. and Mrs. Ministers, we ask you for the greatest possible transparency and daily reactivity to ensure that our people are reassured and to combat fraud in the name of the lure of gain. Thank you and I look forward to further discussion.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-08-09-54-commissie-ic720x.u44	Madam President, Minister for Agriculture, you are very much in the Netherlands. That could be a swinging door, a door that'll be back soon. I think that take is a little faint, too. After all, the fact that others make mistakes is one thing, but that the system is not conclusive with us is another matter. You don't always have to point out the blackbird. I say that it might be a swing door because I read in the note from the food agency that an initial question was asked to the Netherlands on 19 June and that a formal question was asked to the Netherlands on 6 July. There too, therefore, some time has elapsed, namely three weeks. In addition, ministers were not informed until 24 July. That could have happened sooner, because then the previous Minister for Agriculture, Mr Borsus, could have asked his Dutch colleague a question and then perhaps an answer would have been followed sooner. I would also like to make a few comments about chicken meat and derived products. The question is: what's the first, the chicken or the egg? Well, in this case, first there is the chicken, from which the egg comes. When certain products are identified in the egg, I suppose those products are also in the chicken. I believe I have heard that the test of those chickens has not yet begun or may have just begun. I find that somewhat odd. I know that there is a distinction between laying hens and chickens for slaughter, but the laying hens also somehow enter the food chain, even if it is in the animal feed circuit. So I'm a little surprised that the investigation into the chickens is just beginning. I am also thinking of the many derived products. At the time of the dioxin crisis, it was not just about eggs and chickens, but in the long run, almost everything was removed from the shelves, up to the blood sausage, I think I remember. Then there's the question why there wasn't a check for fipronil. At first glance, the staggering answer was that it was a prohibited product. Of course one should not check if there is protein in an egg, that is usually in it. However, I would like to know why you do not check. After all, you must check for other prohibited products. There must be an explanation why they do not check. There must be a certain amount of explanation. When it is said that this product was discovered in the Netherlands in November 2016, this means that it is likely to be used in that sector. So it could very well be that this is something that has been going on for years and that we do not know. If it's not tested, we can't know. The explanation cannot be that we do not test for fipronil because it is a prohibited product. That can't be the explanation. There must be a scientific explanation why that particular product is not tested. I suppose that explanation exists. I also have some questions at the labs. Of course, we'll be dealing with different test results. This can be attributed to all kinds of things. It is enough to take other eggs from the same fate to effectively obtain other values. In those laboratories I notice on page 2 of that note from the BFSA that they say that different analytical profiles are used. Yes, when using different analytical profiles, it is also quite normal to have different results. It would be rather surprising that different analytical profiles give the same results. That would be really amazing. I also notice that it is said that a Dutch lab has been called upon. In the meantime, at the request of the BFSA, there are also a number of labs in Belgium that have developed capacity. Shouldn't we be proactive? Again, they don't test it but in the Netherlands they already know since 2016 that they apparently use it in the sector. It is strange that people do not test it when it is apparently something that is used in the sector. I would also like to mention the damage suffered by farmers. Mr Ducarme, you are a Minister of Agriculture, but of course you do not have many powers anymore. The powers of agriculture lie with the Regions. That is why I would like to know whether there are actually regional differences in this damage. I notice that the Fédération Wallonne de l'Agriculture is now talking about several hundred thousand euros of damage while I see that yesterday the Flemish Farmers' Federation talked about at least 10 million euros. I believe that farmers who suffer damage must be compensated. They're also victims in this case. However, farmers may turn to the regions for possible errors that have occurred at the federal level. I would have liked to know if there are regional differences. Can you give us any explanation on that? I also have a question for Mr Diricks. I notice that Test-Achats now also says that one of the problems is that the resources of the BFSA were heavily saved. According to Test-Achats, the Agency actually lacks resources. The budget decreased by 11% between 2011 and 2016. The government donation decreased by 18% during that period. Test-Purchasing further says that this is actually due to the fact that fewer tests are carried out. Is this information from Test-Achats correct? Are there actually fewer tests for that reason? I would also like to return to the dioxin crisis and the creation of the BFSA. I remember there were two intentions at the time. They wanted to combine a number of technical competences and skills into an agency. They also wanted to eliminate the chaotic communication at the time. Did you get rid of that? I hear Professor Tytgat say it took him a lot of time and work to see the light in the darkness. It is surprising that someone at his level has to put so much time into that. Something must have gone wrong with that communication, right? I also read today that there has been a mistake in the communication of the codes. Apparently, this has gone wrong, too. This morning is in De Standaard, as I know still a quality newspaper, whatever some other groups may think of it, an article with the beautiful head "FAVOR" doesn't like peeping eyes. This is a very interesting article. I can see that they have waited a very long time, namely until 24 July, before the Minister has been informed. I do not want to put this question to the food agency alone, because the Minister is functionally responsible for it. Is there a procedure? When does the food agency have to inform the minister? Is there some kind of protocol about that? Are there any appointments? They'd be pretty formal, but maybe they're informal. Communication is very important in this case. The Minister for Agriculture still has the important competence over the food agency. I believe that, for several reasons, this competence would be better placed in the public health field. Now it is a competence of Agriculture, which means that part of the communication is done through the Minister of Agriculture. It is about communication that people, consumers, farmers are waiting for. Today, of course, this communication is via interviews on radio and TV, but we have a Minister of Agriculture who cannot give an interview in Dutch. You are finishing this with the usual joke, which we have heard since 1830, Mr Ducarme, namely that you will take an intensive course in Dutch. Make it a hyper-intensive course. I think it's gonna be necessary. The communication problem is real. Communication takes place through interviews on radio and TV as soon as the Minister is involved, via the Minister. That is also one of the reasons why Mrs De Block should be better placed with this dossier. Then one person will communicate on the aspects of the food agency and at the same time on the health aspects. You did a very good job, Mrs. De Block. I have understood your explanation of the different standards very well. In order to improve communication, only one royal decision and two signatures are needed for this, from Mr Ducarme and the King, the food agency would go better to Mrs De Block.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-08-09-54-commissie-ic720x.u45	First of all, I congratulate you, Minister, on your appointment. I can imagine that you would have imagined the beginning of your term of office differently. I feel sorry for you. Anyway, I have a few sets of questions. The first series deals with the functioning of the food agency. Like many colleagues, I would like to know why communication has been delayed for so long, especially in view of the interesting timeline, which you have explained in detail. I note that it was already found on 9 June that some samples were not in conformity. At that time, the European alert system should have been set in motion. Mr Nollet and I speak of 2 June, but even if we were to follow your timeline, the system should have been put into effect on 9 June. In addition, the blackbird is transferred to the Netherlands. If I were the director of the food agency and had to identify a lack of information from the Netherlands, I would ask my overseeing minister to step up his efforts more quickly. Worse still, if the Netherlands has failed, then this deserves to be followed up and then we must have all the information we need. This only confirms my previous point, namely that if the food agency had made a notification at the beginning of June, the European Member States would have been alerted much more quickly and they would have been more aware of the problem. If the Netherlands had played hide-and-seek, it wouldn't have gotten away with that now. Then we would have known. The fact that the Netherlands would be the culprit is a non-argument, because the BFSA could have set the European alert system in motion much faster. I also add to the question of some of my colleagues about the impact that the savings have had on the BFSA at about 18 percent over five years. I asked Minister Borsus in committee if this did not jeopardise the functioning of the BFSA. At that time he formally assured me that this was not the case and that the BFSA could achieve the same objectives by less means, precisely because it had expanded car checks. He ran the car checks very fiercely. Now the report of the Court of Auditors in March and also Test-Achats strongly criticises the lack of control over autocontrol. Minister Borsus said at the time that he saw no problem, but if the Court of Auditors' report and recommendations are placed alongside the past events, then I think you will conclude that the savings lead to current mismanagement. What's your vision on that? I also share the surprise of a number of colleagues about the usefulness of the BFSA, when the director in "Ter Zake" states that there is no standard check for fipronil, as it is prohibited. I didn't understand that statement at all. A second block of questions concerns the potential health hazard. Over the past few weeks and months, we have heard various opposing views. Because of the toxicological explanation and the confusion over the different standards, it took some time to understand it properly. We have now understood it correctly and from the Belgian point of view health would not be in danger. However, there is a very recent German study, dated 30 July, of the Bundesinstitut für Risikobewertung, which apparently shows that there is a danger to children's health. So I'm totally convinced I'm not, because the experts don't all say the same thing. With regard to the vision, I would also like to mention the following. In Minister Borsus' 2015-2017 action plan, he says that the BFSA has two objectives. The first objective is to guarantee food safety, and the second is to improve the image of the food sector. Well, by having to achieve both objectives by one agency, that agency is forest ranger and poacher at the same time. I understand very well that this is normal, good and explanatory: the Minister of Agriculture defends his sector, with its economic interests, and ensures that the image gets a boost and is improved. That is the job of a Minister of Agriculture, and there is nothing wrong with that. However, the Minister cannot serve two gentlemen at once. Controls on food safety must be placed separately with a neutral body. I have great sympathy with the farmers who have suffered damage and claim compensation. The latter must certainly be investigated, because these farmers are not guilty. There is fraud going on, fraud must be detected and fraudsters punished. However, as far as I am concerned, it is absolutely essential for the Agency to set up the public health glasses in the first place. That is why I agree with my fellow Members who are in favour of housing the Agency under Public Health. Thirdly, I come to the political responsibility. Minister De Block, you stated that you were informed on 24 July and you specifically said that the protocol was being followed. If that has gone entirely according to the protocol, then I think you have been informed very late, and perhaps we should correct that protocol. The political leaders, as the timeline also shows, did not come out until 6 August or later. I have a habit of always keeping it short and concise, so I'm getting to my last point already. Minister Ducarme, in the policy paper of early 2017 of then Minister Borsus, wrote that there was an evaluation of the food agency and that there would be an accompanying structure. There is also better cooperation between the agricultural and health services. It is therefore very logical that I should ask today about the state of affairs. How far along are you with that? It seems to me now to be a moment and a perfect moment to give us more explanation and to work on it. Then I have one more question for Minister De Block. I do not think that there are many Members here who were in the front row in the dioxin crisis of the 1990s. That goes for you, Madam Secretary, and for me too, because I was then Deputy Chief of Cabinet at Magda Aelvoet. We have, indeed, resolutely chosen for very clear reasons to place the agency in Health. This was the result of an evaluation that we made of the dioxin crisis, following two poorly functioning services in our administration. As a result of mad cow disease, Europe has done the same. Everything in terms of food safety is covered by Health and absolutely not by Agriculture. I therefore agree with the request made by a few colleagues for an audit. Mrs De Block, it has happened several times under this government, you have already announced a few and you are working on it. You do it at the general practitioners' wards, you do it at the district health centers. If they deserve an audit, I believe that at least the BFSA needs a thorough and comprehensive audit.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-08-09-54-commissie-ic720x.u46	Colleagues, if there is no more request for intervention, I will allow myself a few comments. First of all, I would like to associate myself with the general statement made by my colleague, Fabienne Winckel, who, like other colleagues, has asked a number of relevant questions. I will not go back to the aspects of communication, overruns, etc. The large presence of colleagues and the media attests that food security is really a crucial social issue and that the egg is part of our daily diet, either in direct consumption or via derivatives. Minister of Agriculture, according to the statistics of the SPF Economy of 2015 - I did not find the figures for 2016 - our country would produce some two billion eggs per year for about 10 million laying hens. This means that the egg is important in our daily consumption and that it represents a very important market. Of course, we export in part, but we also import. At the end of this round of intervention by colleagues, I note that our meeting raises more questions than answers at this stage. Of course, the debate is not over. We'll listen to the answers and then the replicas. But as much communication has been weak until last Sunday, so much since then, a plethora of information continues to rain, the last not later than this morning. I really think this debate was very useful, indispensable, vacation or not! Food security does not stop during the months of July and August. I would like to make two points and, first of all, to talk about farmers. A few colleagues did. I'm an elected rural man. I have many contacts in the agricultural world. They are being questioned by consumer citizens. They feel fingered, sometimes feel guilty about the current crisis, while in reality the mistakes have not been committed by the producers, by the breeders. It must also be said that we need to decriminalise our producers with regard to this crisis. Moreover, all the crises we have experienced in this area, the mad cow crisis, the crisis of dioxin, chlorinated chicken or horse meat in lasagna, did not come from the producers. They came from the food industry. The producers were not responsible for what had happened. However, frauds exist, manipulations take place with the aim of lucrativeness. As the minister has said, some, in order to enrich themselves, do not hesitate to put the health of consumers at risk. It's obviously very serious. If legal proceedings are ongoing, they must continue to the end and provide clarity on this element. Another element pointed out by Mr Nollet is the feeling of double standards among farmers. I'm not saying it's a reality. Farmers talk a lot about it. They note a certain degree of hardness towards small producers and a more conciliatory attitude towards the industry. Is the Director of AFSCA aware of this? How can he respond to this criticism? The mission of the AFSCA is essential. The forum was created after the dioxin crisis. Our citizens are increasingly demanding on the quality of the products they consume; diseases are developing on the causes that can be questioned. The public authorities must make every effort to meet this requirement. We need to be vigilant all the time. I agree with Mrs Ljinen when she says that we are not at the end of this debate. But lessons will have to be learned from this new food crisis and how to improve the processes of prevention, knowledge, control, traceability of products, improvement of working methods and communication. The trust of the citizen stems from the reliability of the control processes put in place and from clear and unwavering communication. The debate has shown that questions arise in this regard.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-08-09-54-commissie-ic720x.u47	Mr. President, I had not understood that we had already made a full tour. I would just like to mention a few things. It feels like there are two parts in the file. There is food safety, consumer protection, the punishment of fraudsters and farmers' compensation. A lot of questions related to it. There is another aspect that we feel well in different places and that is more political. We are calling for the presence of Minister Borsus. We have seen that his successor has perfect control of the case in a few days and has been very precise and transparent. He ensured the continuity of the state by succeeding a minister. He took over the files. For me, that's enough. On the other hand, there is one element that is fundamental to me, obviously it is the minister's information. I run a whole series of things. I also have directors. When I see the time taken to warn the minister, I would have a director who does this to me, if he does not have a good explanation, I will settle his account. That is really the specific question I would like to ask the director of AFSCA. By having had the information and with a whole series of people who have intervened or information that have been made at different levels, including the prosecutor's office and at European level, why have you waited all this time to warn the minister?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-08-09-54-commissie-ic720x.u48	Mr Piedboeuf, you are right to insist on the issue of compensation because the Boerenbond estimates the damage to be EUR 10 million. This is a small supplementary question before giving the floor to the government. Of course, there are regional and federal powers, but what are breeders entitled to expect in terms of compensation for each other? How? Is there already a concertation on this matter?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-08-09-54-commissie-ic720x.u49	Mr President, I will try to answer as broadly as possible to allow Mrs De Block, but also the Director of AFSCA, to answer the multitude of technical questions. I will allow myself to give you a more political answer. I agree with you, Mr President, on some of the points you have raised, as I agree with what Mr de Lamotte said. It is clear that we are dealing with this issue on a daily basis in the Belgians. It is also for this reason that the case is so sensitive, and why we need to be so vigilant. There are still a lot of questions. I would just like to go back to the meaning of my approach. I have requested a detailed report from the AFSCA on all the actions taken since 2 June, the data recorded and the initiatives taken. AFSCA gave it to me. [[I gave it to you.]] In this context, you have access today to a whole range of information which, I think, will be useful for you to understand that some critical elements can be highlighted. Some questions arise. I think every organism is perfect. You will naturally continue to cross-check the information contained in the AFSCA note. I think you could have noticed that the work was done and that the precautions were taken. I'm not here to get into some kind of confrontation. Mrs. Winckel, you indicate that nothing has been done. I would simply refer you to the report, at the very beginning, on 3 June, to see that eggs are already blocked. Already in June, the investigation begins. I can understand some criticisms, but I refer you to all the initiatives and actions that have been taken.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-08-09-54-commissie-ic720x.u50	Mr President, as I was personally questioned, I did not say that nothing had been done; I simply said that not everything had been done.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-08-09-54-commissie-ic720x.u51	It was a nuance that had escaped me. The Director of the Agency is present and he will answer you in full transparency on a number of elements, such as information to the Minister, and on the problem of communication in Europe. An explanation given to me will also be given to you regarding the interaction of the file at the international level. Questions were asked about laboratories and rates. I thank Mr Nollet for the exchange we had on this subject, which allowed us to recall that beyond the residual maximum limit (MRL) of 0.005, when a finding was made that a sample was above this limit, it was declared non-compliant, the holding was blocked and the eggs removed. Of course, fipronil is an illegal product. As soon as a trace exceeds the residual maximum limit, the eggs are blocked. There are two thresholds, the MRL and the European critical threshold, more related to the toxicity of fipronil. Some of you have also asked questions about the transmission of information. I was informed of the problem very quickly after I took office by the firm which informed me of all the useful elements and from the beginning of the week we met with the firm to take stock. We have been in constant contact since that day and, as I have already said, we were hoping for the results more quickly. We were waiting, as the laboratory had indicated, for all the results towards the end of the week. That was not the case. That is why I have indicated the need to communicate the overall results. Mr Nollet, thank you for pointing that out. It was an important element, in my view, in terms of transparency. I believe that we must move forward in this crisis - because it is a crisis - on two feet: transparency on the one hand and protection of consumer health on the other. I also see that a number of questions have been asked by various colleagues, which go beyond the crisis we are facing today. Mr de Lamotte spoke of an audit of the functioning of the AFSCA and he would like to continue to hold meetings in this regard. As you know, I respect parliamentary law. You know me. But there's a crisis to deal with. I would therefore like to react to your initiatives, but I naturally expect the AFSCA to remain at the front with regard to the demands that need to be met, in relation to the new measures and in relation to the follow-up to this crisis which is not going to end overnight; we understand that. We have also understood and allow me in all parliamentary courtesy to call you to... The international press is present here. You have Belgian parliamentarians who say that "Belgium is below everything"! This is not a Belgian problem; it is a European problem! It is not easy to manage when you have a number of documents related to a neighbouring country's lack of cooperation; not sharing important information with us is an element of tension. I think I have demonstrated this and it is not a question of exonerating ourselves from the progress that we could continue to make. It is simply a question of highlighting certain realities. Yes, in the coming days we will have contacts with the Dutch colleague in order to obtain precise answers. As one speaker said, we need more Europe in terms of health control. So, with German and French colleagues, we will have to work and strengthen cooperation with Dutch colleagues, as we have already done with Germany by appointing a liaison officer who works directly with the German administration. We need to get on with this. Today, many countries face this reality. You've all, in part, taken it up. The European Commissioner is aware of this. Initiatives will have to be taken at European level. We are not alone in having questions to ask in this context and clarifications will have to be obtained from the Dutch colleague. One element is essential, Mr. President. Most colleagues, the majority and the opposition, have said so, particularly Mrs Dierick; we are attentive to what the Boerenbond has said, but also to several Walloon herders: the sector is concerned and we must respond to this concern. We had a meeting with the sector last week. We'll have another meeting tomorrow. Of course, it is a matter of not condemning the whole sector. Not all should pay for a few fraudsters who have enriched themselves by exposing the health of Belgians. We will have all the necessary contacts, in particular with Mr Collin - I will have him personally online shortly - as well as with my other colleagues. We realize that if we are to meet at European level on this issue, we must continue to work in a spirit of consultation in the face of a situation that will not disappear overnight. Here are a few collected elements. My will was not to be too long. I would also like to tell you that really with Maggie, we are working together. Mr. de Lamotte, you were talking about it, but we're really working together, like we're working with Kris Peeters. He is in charge of consumer protection. So it's teamwork. Since taking office, I can count on the support of a team that has been welded because we don't have a choice. We must naturally be united in the face of the events we are facing. I know that, compared to all the technical questions that you may have, Herman Diricks will really be making sure to give you as many concrete answers as possible today, let's say, to the multitude of questions that you are asking yourself. Let's be good. I have shared enough the parliamentary benches to realize that it is sometimes frustrating to set out a number of questions and then realize that we are only responding to one party. I agree with the cabinet and with our administration to complete the questions that you still have, whether in writing or on the occasion of another committee, and to return to you so that this will to be transparent is not just an intention, I think you have understood. It is essential. I therefore wish to take it to the end of this process. Therefore, Mr. Chair, Madam Chair, we will continue to provide a number of answers in this context if parliamentarians still feel they have questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-08-09-54-commissie-ic720x.u52	Thank you, Minister. I will give the floor to Mr Diricks, but before that, Madam Minister, you have a few more points to add.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-08-09-54-commissie-ic720x.u53	Mr President, Madam President, I will be able to be brief, because many questions were on the same subject. I have already answered a number of questions. I can only base myself on scientific evidence and studies. That is not evident when it comes to the intake of fipronil, because it is actually supposed not to take it. That's why there's so few studies on that. I come to the standards and the threshold. Mr Vuye, it was not that simple. Professor Tytgat also made it clear yesterday that he had to study on that. However, it is also important that he said yesterday that we in Belgium have as high standards as the other countries of the European Union. They're tough and the right ones. A request was made for the 0.005. They asked what would happen to those eggs. It has already been said several times, those eggs are blocked, which are removed. They cannot end up in the food chain. That precautionary measure has ensured that the fate of the counter-expertise egg in question never entered the food chain. Then I come to the acute reference dose of 0.72 milligrams per kilogram of egg. We really want to stay below that because otherwise we cannot guarantee that there is no effect on health. For children, this corresponds to the following. We have calculated that a child of 8.7 kilograms can eat 2 eggs a day. If you want to know how much a child can weigh at a certain age, you should do the age times 2 plus 8. If you know that a child of 1 year weighs 10 kilograms, I would like to know which children from 8 to 9 months are served 2 eggs a day. That is still allowed, but I do not think that a good and balanced infant nutrition is. We must, of course, introduce caution into children and pregnant women. It's all about food and booze. Pregnant women certainly have to pay attention, and that is no different in this case. There have been questions about custody. Mr. Nollet, you asked, "Is it not for you to take over the guardianship?" Mrs Dedry, you have already said and written about this. Honestly, the cooperation is going very well now. The Minister for Agriculture is now the Minister responsible and I am kept informed simultaneously through the protocol. That's what happened. The only thing that has happened is that the previous Minister of Agriculture Borsus was informed very late, but he informed me himself the day, so the protocol has been respected in that respect. Frankly, I think we can have this discussion another time, with all the advantages and disadvantages. Now it is first things first: we must ensure that there is no danger to public health in the following weeks, months and years. To this end, we shall take the necessary precautions and comprehensive measures. I can say the following about the health effects. In the scientific literature one finds mainly health effects when exposed or intake of the pure product. I have already said............................................................................................................................................................................................. It is said here that I say that the substance is moderately toxic, but I am not saying that. I would not say that, I would say that I do not know, but the WHO says that it is a moderately toxic product and that it should therefore be ensured that there is no excess of that acute reference dose. We are therefore taking steps to avoid this possibility of being exceeded and, if possible, to stop it. I also said what the symptoms are at much higher doses and acute poisoning symptoms. In neurological terms, these are mainly dizziness, nausea and so on, possible kidney poisoning or liver failure, but so far we have no knowledge of people who have become seriously ill or died of it. I hope, of course, that we will not acquire that knowledge. They're strict standards. Therefore, there is no question of a truly problematic exposure. However, we will remain very cautious and will continue to apply these strict standards. I think it is important for us to be able to assure the public that the eggs that are now on the market and which are not part of the tickets that have been recalled can be consumed. If you ask me if you can still eat eggs that you bought two months ago, I would not be so worried about fipronil but for other reasons. I myself once saw some people with very strange symptoms of salmonella. Eggs over two months of age are better disposed of. I have no scientific basis for this, but this is my general practitioner experience for 25 years. How's it going now? I believe that our cooperation with the BFSA will be very intensive in the coming weeks and months. We will have to put together all the new measurements to see if things are moving in the right direction. We now know which companies are involved. Those practices will no doubt have stopped by now. If research shows that this was the only filière, then I believe this will disappear from our diet. Mr Nollet, you are right to ask how long this has been going on. I hope that the legal investigation will exclude this. If it is already going on for a long time, the facts will still be difficult to harden because those eggs are already gone. I therefore believe that we should count on the ongoing judicial investigation, including the question of invoices and what has happened to farmers, who also have invoices. The farmers themselves are also the victims of fraud. The poultry farmers wanted to disinfect their stables in good faith against red lice and they are now victims of the fact that they did not know that such a harmful substance was used. They are also punished by the fact that they cannot deliver now, which simply means a disaster for those people. It is therefore right that the fraudsters who are playing with people's health and also with the reputation of poultry farmers should be treated strictly.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-08-09-54-commissie-ic720x.u54	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Mr Diricks, I give you the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-08-09-54-commissie-ic720x.u55	Thank you. I am glad that as a BFSA we are given the opportunity to give some explanations. I will keep my statement as structured as possible. A lot of questions have been asked, and I hope you will forgive me if I miss one or two. If you would remind me of this, I will also answer the outstanding questions. To begin with, I would like to explain two essential aspects of the operation of the BFSA, before addressing the technical questions. These essential aspects relate to the question of why what matters are or are not included in our monitoring programme. With the answer to these questions you will understand that there are certainly good reasons why certain substances are being searched for in certain matrices. When the Agency draws up a control programme, it tries to identify the substances in which products are to be searched on the basis of a risk analysis. That work happens every year and it doesn't happen in a corner. This work is carried out in all transparency with all actors in the food chain. The Agency takes the initiative annually to draw up a new control programme using many external sources of information, including RASFF, reports from other Member States on any fraud they may have seen there. We use all these elements to create a control program of the BFSA. In a next step, we will discuss this monitoring programme with all stakeholders, with the FPS Public Health, with the sectors, with the advisory committee, which has just been referred to. We publish our control program in extenso on our website. Anyone who wants to know what we're checking for can look it up on our website. Why do I care? That is because our dynamic control programme in the inspection programme allows us to take into account all the information we get from other countries. Let me give you a small example. Through the RASFF reports we found in a given year that there was an overrun or quite a lot of overruns in the currency of a particular North African country. We're adjusting our control program and we're actually seeing it. There is a problem with certain pesticides. In this way, it is a living system, in which we try year after year to always take into account all the information that is passed on to us. That is, of course, the basis on which we work. It's not because a product isn't allowed, that we're not looking for it. It is because if we have made a risk analysis and there is no element from all the information we collect neither from the sector, nor from other public authorities, nor from RASFF, we do not carry out controls. Do we check on prohibited substances? We do control prohibited substances and you can find out for yourself which dangerous prohibited substances we are looking for. So it deserves at least a nuance when one claims that our control programme would not control the banned substances. We are always trying, with the resources we have, to apply the control programme to the best possible extent. Moreover, it is a matter of urgency, and I shall perhaps repeat it several times, the European legislation, which stipulates that the control programme must be risk-based. We have to make it risk-based, because we do not have infinite resources, and we could look for everything in all the matrices. There were also a lot of questions about the labs. That is the second part of my general explanation. The laboratories with which the agency operates have been initially recognised by the Agency, but every year, according to European regulations, we have to outsource all the analyses we outsource with a public contract. I realize that this is a reasonable burden for some laboratories, but we have no choice. Each monitoring program of the analyses is synthesized. We are looking at what we can do in our own laboratories and we have them. We then look at what we want to do in external laboratories and impose on them the range of parameters and matrices to be followed, in which research must be carried out and for which they can cooperate with us. They then submit a tender and ultimately, on the basis of an objective comparison between quality and the price of the laboratories, all the analyses to be carried out are indeed outsourced. There was a question about the reference laboratories. The Agency has designated a national reference laboratory for each domain. Our Luxembourg colleagues even call on our reference laboratories to work cost-effectively. The fact that we are working with European procurement also means that other European laboratories can participate in our monitoring programme. We can't even refuse them. Explicitly, we cannot say that we only take Belgian laboratories. That would not be wise either, because one cannot expect that in a country like Belgium all the knowledge is available to look for all possible substances in all possible matrices. We will therefore have to call on foreign laboratories for a number of things. That is because we apply the rules strictly to public procurement. We are not only transparent in the area of the control programme, we are also transparent in the area of controls, which we are effectively carrying out. On our website and in our annual report you can check for yourself which substances we are looking for in which products. If anyone has a suggestion that we can include in our risk assessment, we will certainly not, but we can be sure that the monitoring programme is compiled with the utmost care on the basis of the input of experts, on the basis of the scientific committee. We are not just talking about this. We also call on the Scientific Committee to evaluate at regular intervals coherent wholes of our monitoring programme and to see whether this needs to be adapted. As far as the control programme and the laboratories are concerned, I therefore believe that we have all the elements in our hands to conclude that it is rationally compiled and that we have laboratories available for each matrix of parameter combinations either internally or abroad. It is also important for us that we have two laboratories for each type of analysis. People have often talked about counter-expertise here. I would like to point out that, as a government, we are legally obliged to take a sample in duplicate. The sample shall be taken in duplicate and separated. One shall be kept at the disposal of the operator, one shall be analysed by the Agency. If the operator asks for a second analysis as a right to defence, he can also have that counter-steel sampled. That is what happened in this case. One does not do counter-analysis to prove that his product is not compliant, but one does counter-analysis in order to possibly contradict an initial, non-compliant analysis. We've been looking for labs that could help us. Like I said, we can't test all the matrices and parameter combinations. If we are faced with a problem of a new matrix in which we need to look for a particular substance, then we need to look at which laboratories can help us. Depending on the developments in a dossier, we evaluate whether we need new, different and better methods of analysis. But, of course, we have to start somewhere. With a new matrix combination, we always look at where we can have the controls carried out. In some cases, the technical knowledge about this is abroad, and fortunately, because it is impossible to keep up with all that knowledge in our own country. As far as the timeline is concerned, I believe that honesty must be shown. The agency was notified on 2 June. We are asked why we did not inform the Minister. Well, I have just received the figures of the notifications under the compulsory declaration in Belgium. Sometimes that is forgotten, but our country is the strictest in the supervision of operators, who have to communicate their non-compliant results to the government. An operator might not be able to report it and classify it vertically, but the people in our control service are very strict about that regulation. We are particularly strict when the notification is not followed, just because there are quite a lot of analyses in these sectors and in those companies. In 2016 there were 910 notifications and in 2015 there were 799 notifications. So I want to, but if I have to deliver them all to the Minister, then the Minister will need a lot of time to deal with them. The same applies to RASFF messages. We have had to process 258 RASFF messages and we have had to send 129 RASFF messages ourselves. I believe that this is such a volume of activity that one has to set a limit somewhere to what information is being passed on in the organization and to the level of the minister. With regard to the different analysis results, I believe that our technical staff have all looked at each other and wondered what was going on here. We are trying to find out, but we must not forget that we have already had to manage a number of incidents and crises. These are things that can always happen. I imagine that pressure is being put on and that a mistake has already been made. Those are the things that happen. The only major problem is that we had agreements on the lead time which, in some cases, took twice as long as we originally suspected. I hear some say that we should not refer to the Dutch government. To be honest, this hurts me a little. My heart even bleeds a little because I've always had good contacts. Suppose they shared the information about the possible use of fipronil. That fipronil would be included in our control programme at that time, because we are capturing all the information that is shared between the Member States about fraud and trying to include it in our control programme. If our fellow Members had said on 19 June that they had picked up the same signal and had advised us to look at it thoroughly, we could have acted in a much quicker way. I don't want to shuffle them off at all, but those are just determinations I have to make. If our people had known on 19 June that a problem had already been identified in the Netherlands, we would have been able to deal with it much more quickly. As far as auto-checking is concerned, there is a great deal of criticism about this. I think it is forgotten that auto-control is an application of European legislation. The hygiene package actually came about after the dioxin crisis because there had to be a proper distribution between the responsibility of the government and the operator. The regulation is very clear. The operator must ensure that he has a system that ensures that his products are safe. The government has to see to that. We're doing the same thing. You just mentioned audits. I think we get about 10 to 12 audits a year. The European Commission is coming by, third countries to which we want to export products, checking how our control system works. I would like to admit that there is sometimes a mission of the European DG Santé where a number of points of improvement are indicated but by the band... Compare our audit reports, which are, by the way, publicly available on the European Commission's website with others. On the contrary, Belgium is cited as good practice in a number of cases. We get more and more fact finding missions on the floor where people come to see how we organized it in Belgium. I do think that we can show that we are not a rattle, but that we are indeed an organisation that has a good structure, where we have provided competent people. We've also had our own system accredited. Our labs are 17025. Gotta get out of regulation. The control services are 17020. This means that an external organisation comes to see how our inspections are organised. The communication. Yeah, well, I understand that consumers have questions. I understand that everyone has questions, not just consumers. We are trying to provide answers to this by the means we have. What struck me was one of the first interventions I heard here, in which I was told that there is only one question that is important, namely whether one can eat one's eggs. I think that we as an agency have been trying throughout the period to provide an answer to that question, a clear and clear answer to that question with the knowledge we had at the time. We did not want to hide the difference between the MRL and the European limit value in our communication, but we assumed that it was more sensible and easier to say that there is a European limit value and that there is no danger to public health as long as we remain below it. That was a short, simple message, and that MRL history didn't have to be included. In fact, we did not put it on ourselves. It's others who started it. That brings me to another question, namely whether we consider the MRL to be important. The MRL is important. We always use them. If a product contains certain substances above the MRL, they should be withdrawn from the market. Whatever the chemical, it must disappear from the market. It may be a misunderstanding, but we are actually ensuring that products that are not compliant are no longer traded. We have to ask ourselves how far one goes, with a rappel etcetera, and then we use other comparative values, but in any case, our entire system is aimed at applying European rules. In every action, in every step we have taken, we can clearly demonstrate that the rules have been respected. I hope that we all believe in the rule of law and that the government must ensure that the rules are applied. A great deal has been said about the European RASFF system. It is therefore necessary to know what is expected of the Member States in the RASFF system. There are clear rules and we apply them. These rules have been agreed at European level. It is said, for example, that as soon as there is something, it must be reported in the European system. That's not true. The rules of the European RASFF system say that there should be a notification if the ARfD has been exceeded. There are even notifications from other countries that are refused because they simply exceed an MRL and do not exceed an ARfD. We therefore apply the rules of RASFF to the letter. We must, of course, be careful where there is a problem, because the rules of RASFF are clear and we are trying to abide by them. In this respect, too, the Agency has applied the rules and principles of the RASFF system. The presentation of things, as if we were hiding, is therefore not correct at all. On 20 July, we sent data through RASFF and that was the first time that sufficient information was available to give sufficient precise information to our fellow Member States, with which they could get started. In the end, you should also bear in mind that the Commission was already informed on 6 July, namely through the fraud reporting system. After all, we made it clear that we had suspicions of the presence of fipronil in eggs. At that time, however, we did not yet have a clear picture of what was going on with this fipronil. This is how we work systematically. As you can see in chronology, we have followed all the steps laid down in the procedures. Our people are following them as quickly and as correctly as possible. Questions have also been asked about monitoring, as requested by ministers. In any case, we have set up this monitoring. We have not, moreover, been waiting for the Ministers' question to proceed with this monitoring, with which we want to get a perfect picture of what is happening on the ground. It is true that we have set priorities, and these priorities lie primarily with the laying hens where eggs intended for consumers are produced. For example, we are trying to organise additional monitoring and monitoring at all levels, as requested. Questions have been asked about the manure. Now, as soon as we have heard that there were companies infected, we have informed the Regions. After all, what needs to be done with this manure is a competence of the regional governments. You also asked a question about a protocol between the Minister and the Agency. I can tell you that we have not yet had the opportunity, Mr President-in-Office, to draw up a protocol setting out how we work together. That's gotta come now. Realize that it is not always obvious to correctly explain a system that has been put in place. I'm trying to be very synthetic right now. I would be able to explain to you for a very long time, and if you will, I would certainly like to come and explain to you how the agency works from needle to thread. Indeed, a decision had to be made. After we had seen the results of the searches, in which not only I but many colleagues were very impressed by what had happened, I do not mean to say fell from our seats, we immediately informed the cabinet and the minister. As I said, I can't send 910 notifications. I can, but that would only be my responsibility as customs officers, just send everything to the cabinet. Then I can say that I have no problem, that I delivered it all to the Minister. No, that's not how we work. We are trying to put our responsibilities at the right level. If, on the basis of the information available to us, we find that something is going to be a major problem, we will, of course, immediately refer it to the Minister. I would like to summarize everything briefly. The Agency has organised itself in such a way that it is able to ensure that European legislation is correctly applied. We have organized ourselves in such a way that we have a control programme at our disposal to ensure that we can control the widest possible range of products. We have a control and inspection programme, which ensures that all companies are checked at regular intervals. We have taken note of the Court of Auditors' report. At that time we also delivered a detailed dossier to the Minister, explaining how we responded to what recommendations. In fact, we have always put our arguments on the table for every dossier. That was my introduction. I can now answer your specific questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-08-09-54-commissie-ic720x.u56	Thank you very much for the responses of the Ministers and Mr. Diricks. We're going back to the co-workers. Who wants to reply again? Mrs. Gantois, no. Mr Vercammen, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-08-09-54-commissie-ic720x.u57	Mr President, I would like to thank the Director for his clear statement, which I believe has answered a great many questions. As a doctor, I always have the impression that these days more people of fipronil live than die of it. In our meeting, therefore, I have the greatest respect for the relevant ministers and the BFSA. They gave a clear overview. I also have a great deal of understanding and respect for the sincere concerns of many fellow Members and their most pertinent questions. Some people had their voice volume and passion, sometimes even their abject fear, out of proportion to the real problem, and that is fraud, namely the presence of an unauthorized poison, through malicious intent, fraud and deceit. Minister Ducarme has shown this very clearly. Speaking of poison: sola dose facit venenum. It is not the first time that this has been said in our institution. Only the dose determines if something is toxic. That is why European legislation talks about a residue value. All kinds of substances are present in our diet, the harmfulness of which depends on the amount contained in them. Fipronil is an authorised pesticide of mites and fleas in pets, but is not allowed in our food chain. As Minister De Block said, the quantities that may be present in an egg are very clearly delimited. Everyone in the room would be amazed at the thousands of substances that can be detected in food without that presence, even if they are poisons in the mouth, being harmed. Of course, there's such a thing as a precautionary principle. However, there is also a principle of proportionality. A number of people in all variations have called fire here in the theatre. Comparisons with dioxin, mad cow disease and others are not covered here. No chick or chicken has died until further notice, let alone a human being. No one's gonna get sick of fipronil either. Proportionality is a sense of proportion. We must not close hundreds of farms or clean up millions of chickens if we do not have to. However, it is necessary to trace the use of a prohibited product, monitor intensively the companies concerned and, if necessary, block it. Research into substances in nutrition follows a number of laws. Concepts such as absolute error, relative error, biological variation, natural clearance and degradation of a particular substance in a product and analytical methods play a role in calculating and publishing results. It is therefore impossible, as indicated by the delegate director, to trace everything or to exclude everything, perhaps not so much practical, but certainly financially. We don't want to test ourselves poor, do we? The Agency's answers were very pertinent. Unfortunately, our gremium occasionally kills the messenger, either because his message is annoying, or because he does not have a message, because the information is not yet available or verified. Some people want to make the process of two or three people or institutions here, while according to our group the BFSA has only proven that it does its job well, sometimes not fast enough. That's possible, but as far as I'm concerned, I'm a doctor, and I'm circulating a joke. Which specialist is the best? We always say: the skin specialist. Why? Because they already have the results before they go to the doctor. Patience was not the strongest part of many actors, including the media. As representatives of the people, we in the political arena, with our own laws and our own games, must retain our serenity from time to time. Our control systems have worked. Immediately taking the operation of the food agency on the shovel, there is far beyond. Our citizens deserve better from their representatives than a reaction like a headless chicken. This requires listening and learning on matters that we do not always know much about ourselves, with respect for our executive and judiciary and for an institution like the BFSA, which has only proven to do a good job in the matter. Yeah, our eggs are edible and healthy and they're controlled. Finally, a small correction for Minister De Block and the colleague of sp.a: the best way to keep eggs in their natural form is not in the refrigerator, but at room temperature.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-08-09-54-commissie-ic720x.u58	Mr President, I would like to make a short reply. I will not be very nuanced because I find that we have not received an answer to the extremely precise questions that many parliamentarians from the majority or the opposition have been able to ask. I very much regret that. I would like to go back to Minister Ducrame's remarks when he says he wants more transparency and better consumer protection in terms of health. It can therefore be inferred from his remarks that there have been shortcomings due to a lack of transparency and measures for consumer protection. He also spoke of a serious crisis and the need for AFSCA to be allowed to work on it. I agree, but that is no reason not to answer the questions. We can let AFSCA continue to work on the current crisis, but we must ensure that the problem we are experiencing today does not occur anymore. This has already happened in 1999, and is the case today. This must be stopped by taking action for the future. Minister, you are asking to let AFSCA work, but I want to tell you that this Agency, in order to work well, must have the means to operate it. I can only deplore the position of your government, which is reducing its total budget. My colleague, Daniel Senesael, spoke in committee, not in 2017 or 2016, but in December 2014, to regret these budget cuts and the restriction of controls. One might wonder whether these savings that your government wants are not already having an impact on consumer health and food security. This remains a question. There was important information today which was revealed in your report and which was relayed by Mr Ducarme and Mrs De Block. These are serious, if proven, shortcomings in the Netherlands. I still wish we could check that information. I would like us, as parliamentarians, to have a copy of the letters that could be exchanged with the Dutch minister and a copy of the letters exchanged between the Belgian and Dutch administrations. These are serious accusations. It is therefore important to be able to verify this information. Moreover, even if this information is proven, it does not in any way remove the responsibility of the Belgian State. I think that was included in your remarks, you sometimes lamented the long delay before you got the information from AFSCA. I also regret the delay between the moment you received the information and the measures that have been taken.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-08-09-54-commissie-ic720x.u59	Would you like to answer that specific question?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-08-09-54-commissie-ic720x.u60	Two elements. We're talking about the budget. What is the basis for fipronil detection? It is obviously based on tests. You should know that, like each department, AFSCA has made a number of efforts. However, in 2016 – these are the figures available at this stage – more tests were carried out than in 2015 and 2014. It's easy to pack this! Everything that happens in the end would be due to what? By the fact that the government would have saved money? I'm telling you, in the problem we're concerned about here, it's a little big as a string! That's why I answer you precisely in relation to the tests, since that's what matters when it comes to detecting a product like this. More tests were performed in 2016 than in 2015 and 2014. The other thing, Mrs. Winckel, is that it's not about accusing. We're not in a court of law. It's a question of questioning. It's not about checking. The Food Safety Agency has been trying for a month to obtain information from its Dutch counterpart. You have seen in the report the number of reminders that have been produced. This would have allowed us to determine the suspect perimeter more quickly. Yes, we are asking about this lack of communication, particularly with regard to a particular document from the Dutch Agency which tells its minister that fipronil findings on eggs have already been made in November 2016. The idea is not for me to try to pass the hot potato. Objectively, you may agree with me: if we had pulled the alarm bell earlier, we could all have been more vigilant together. I agree with you when you say that we must also learn from Europe. That is why I wrote to my Dutch colleague to ask him questions. And I'll get it on the phone. It is not a question of settling in the accusation or resentment, but of working more together as we have agreed with the German colleague, with whom we have already been able to create a link, via a liaison officer, at the level of the AFSCA. Neither AFSCA nor I intended not to inform you. I want more transparency. We want it together. We wanted parliamentarians to have access to the whole process since 2 June; I do not know if it happens so often that it makes this type of report available to parliamentarians. Mr Nollet will tell us, he who is attentive to these subjects. Yes, we want you to be able to dispose of all the elements indeed, the exchanges will continue. That is the aim of the parliamentary committees. The ministers are here to answer the questions put by the honourable Member, but if I have told you that I have heard of an audit of a great challenge, my role today is to draw attention to the essential thing, namely the management of a crisis which seems to me not only a Belgian crisis but a European crisis.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-08-09-54-commissie-ic720x.u61	Minister, thank you for this additional information. Of course, it is a good thing to see a report on our benches this morning, but the crisis is such that it is also a minimum to be able to have this type of element. It is also important to work in full transparency, again, because it is a question of health, of food health... It is a crucial point and having such a report is the minimum. You deplore the absence of a response from your Dutch counterpart. I'm not a court of law. I was just asking to receive a copy of the letters to go in the direction of transparency, because it's a serious fact and...
ParlaMint-BE_2017-08-09-54-commissie-ic720x.u62	I will make the mail available to parliamentarians.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-08-09-54-commissie-ic720x.u63	Thank you very much for that answer. What we deplore from the Dutch, Germany can deplore from the Belgian State. One must at some point give up turning around in circles. I note that the point is to work together between European countries, to review procedures in the future in order to improve the situation in this area. That's what I want to remember from your answer. In relation to Mr Diricks and in connection with Mr Ducarme's remarks, I did not understand your answer to the labs. I don't understand exactly how it works. If we take a clear example on an X farm that wants to run a test, what lab will it be? Is it the farm that can take its own lab, or does it have to use a designated lab as part of a public procurement you launched? How do counter-expertise work? Is it also in the context of a public procurement? I confess that I really didn't understand and I would like you to explain it to me much more clearly. A question has been asked by several parliamentarians about the protocol. We were surprised that results were different depending on the lab. Here too, it would be interesting to see why there is no such protocol. I wanted to go back to what Mr Diricks said. I was wondering if a communication protocol between the AFSCA and the minister's office had been established. I think in the midst of a crisis, your answer surprises me. I do not blame you, but rather the ministers. In the midst of a crisis, this protocol must be put in place. Discussions must take place. If this is not the case today, could you tell us how you were communicating at the time of Minister Borsus? How did you communicate? Were there any weekly meetings in this area? In relation to Mrs De Block's comments, I find that this is the summit of surrealism. How can you say today that there are no more eggs infected with fipronil in circulation? You said it or it was mistranslated, but I heard that. I regret that because we must be very careful in this matter. I expect you, as Minister of Health, not to minimize a scandal but to take steps to truly secure and improve the safety and health of people.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-08-09-54-commissie-ic720x.u64	Mrs Winckel, first of all, I am here because I consider the subject to be serious. Then I didn't minimize things. You're talking about contaminated eggs. These eggs did not enter the food chain. As for the question of the rate of fipronil above 0.005 or not, if it is, the eggs never enter the chain. This does not mean minimizing things. If I had wanted to do so, we would not have taken precautionary measures and strengthened controls. We would not have put in place the Green Number today; the latter is very successful, with the eleven operators present having received very many calls. In terms of public health, there must be full clarity. I repeat that no contaminated eggs have entered the food chain.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-08-09-54-commissie-ic720x.u65	Mr President, allow me a short reply. We can't talk about "success" in relation to this green issue. Rather, the number of calls received is a matter of great concern among the population. I will come back to this subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-08-09-54-commissie-ic720x.u66	Mr President, I would like to thank the Minister of Health, who is also a general practitioner, for the full explanations and useful information she has given us, not alarmists. I think it's important. I also thank my colleague Mr Vercammen, also a doctor, for the information he has given us allows us to put certain things into perspective. I would also like to congratulate Mr Ducrame, the new Minister of Agriculture, for his knowledge and control of this issue. He just took up his duties and allowed us to deepen his Dutch. But I think Mr Diricks should also improve his knowledge of French. This would certainly improve the proper communication of the AFSCA. It's also important. It is certain that with globalization, we import products from all over the world, with all kinds of ingredients that we know or do not know. We talked about the pesticide in the African menthol. These ingredients, in principle, must be mentioned. Analysis sheets must accompany these products. This is not always the case; there are cheaters. Hence the importance of the work of the AFSCA, which was detailed today by Mr. Diricks. I was very pleased to learn the method of work of the AFSCA, which we did not know. The analyses are adapted from year to year to search for as many prohibited substances as possible. The Scientific Committee, too. I am pleased to hear that, at European level, the good practices of AFSCA are highlighted, that AFSCA is recognised by other European countries. I think it's an important security for the Belgians. This should be more widely disseminated. You have also done well to remind us that, below European standards, there is no danger to public health. On the other hand, above these standards, the product must be removed from trade. You're acting from that point of view. Finally, I would like to conclude by saying that we must not always denigrate what is being done in Belgium. Minister Ducarme recalled that earlier at the beginning of his speech. We must not always give a bad image of our country. In this case, it was rather the Netherlands that should have been pointed at. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-08-09-54-commissie-ic720x.u67	Madam President, I would like to thank the speakers for their clarification and clarification. Indeed, a number of questions have already been answered and we may already be able to draw some preliminary conclusions. I would like to point out that the ministers were very late informed by the BFSA. Mr Diricks, you say that the BFSA gets a lot of notifications every year and that you just accept your responsibility by not sending everything directly to the Minister, but I assume that there are not so many measures at every notification, that not all companies are blocked, that not all products have been withheld. So I think it's a slim explanation after all. I have the impression that you may have underestimated the problem a little bit. Only if there are major problems will you inform the Minister, but if you had known what this would have caused, perhaps you would have informed the Ministers in June. A second and regrettable observation is that cooperation with the Netherlands has not been smooth and successful. That is, of course, very regrettable, but we must not hide behind it. It is a work area which we must certainly pay due attention to, but it is also particularly important that we examine our own control mechanisms carefully and that we consider whether lessons should be learned from them. I note, however, that the court has acted quickly and accurately. On 19 July it was notified and on 20 July the first searches were already there. Both before and after the notification to the ministers, I believe that communication was really under-achievement, both to businesses and consumers. I still feel that the BFSA continues to hide behind the fact that there was a judicial investigation, but one can always communicate to the citizen. Whether there is a judicial investigation or not, in the context of food safety, we need to inform the citizens. It is not a question of releasing the names of the companies in opposition or being blocked, but of providing clear and correct information to businesses and consumers is very important in this respect. A number of questions remain open, for example the explanation of the large difference between the analysis and the counter-expertise. It is still important to make that clear. How do we proceed with this data? We can, of course, continue to discuss late communication. I can only hope that lessons will be learned from this and that it will be clearly communicated to businesses and consumers. I was hopeful about that, until this afternoon I saw a tweet that said that there was a mistake in communicating the published lottery numbers. Please let us do these things with great care. An E more or less on a website can be crucial when it comes to food safety. I was talking about communication like a headless chicken this morning. My words weren't cold yet or there was all that message about that mistake. So I dare to stress that attention is paid to this and that there are no mistakes in it.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-08-09-54-commissie-ic720x.u68	It leaves a bit of a bitter taste in my mouth when I hear that. Our people have been working hard for three to four weeks. Some people had been working that day for 14 hours, from 7:00 in the morning to 9:30 in the evening. If one forgets a number, it is once again presented as a gross mistake on the part of the agency. I don't think this is possible. The whole team, and those are people who work very hard, come to work with a lot of commitment, who try to keep the case as good as possible and then when they are dealt with on a figure if they've worked for 14 hours, I think that's a bit about it.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-08-09-54-commissie-ic720x.u69	Of course, I appreciate the commitment of your team and that they knock for many hours in this crisis is, of course, normal. However, I would argue that if there is communication about products that may compromise food safety, there is a great deal of attention being paid to the fact that it is correct information, that it is double-checked before it is actually made public. I also did not receive an answer as to why sampling took so long compared to other countries. I do have reports from people in the poultry sector who sometimes have to wait up to ten days for an answer on these samples. In other countries, that would take a day and a half. I would also like to call for attention to be paid to this in order to avoid unnecessary harm and drama. Perhaps not yet fully answered is the question of what actions have been taken to set up a system for compensation. I believe that everyone agrees that there will be compensation for the companies that are affected, but a consultation with the agricultural sector is planned. I hope that we, as Parliament, will receive regular feedback on this and that we can also reflect together on how we can compensate these companies. Why different profiles are used by the laboratories in the control, I also said in my first intervention that I thought that was rather hallucinating. I didn't really get an answer to that either. It is also a bit contradictory with the fact that there are such strict selection criteria for these laboratories. Are there still gaps why different profiles are used effectively? I have not yet received an answer to what is happening with the derived products. What checks will be carried out to avoid any problems there too? As you can see, we have already received a lot of answers, and I appreciate that, but there are still a lot of unanswered questions left behind. In any case, I am counting on both responsible ministers to monitor this closely. That's how they communicated it. I have every confidence in that, too. If necessary, appropriate measures should be taken. I would also argue that Parliament should be briefed on this in good time.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-08-09-54-commissie-ic720x.u70	Mr Diricks, your statement was a very positive one. I would like to ask a few clear questions about all this positivism. You say that there is absolutely no criticism of the labs, including foreign ones, with which you work. You are following what Europe tells you to do. Public procurement needs to be tendered in this way. However, if we find that working with these foreign lab drivers leads to different analyses of the same issues and that there should be a waiting period for days, you should consider including a clause in your tender request in which the duration plays a major role. I read that from now on there will be work with Belgian labs because there is so much to investigate. Apparently, we can do it now. As for the timeline, you're behind everything you've done. You're not saying that one or the other could happen faster. I insist that you have informed your ministers far too late. You've started a judicial investigation. That is when you should have informed your ministers immediately. There too, however, you see no problem. You say that you cannot inform ministers in all 700 cases, but starting a judicial investigation or getting a bad analysis is something else. You are right or wrong, I leave that in the middle, angry at the Netherlands. You didn't get enough information or you didn't get enough information soon enough. We will not make the Dutch process here, but what I do know is that from 9 May you received information from a Belgian company. Today is August 9th. As far as the auto-control system is concerned, you say that there are no problems at all. You apply European regulations. In my earlier statement, I brought up the Court of Auditors' report. There is a great deal of criticism about the way in which car checks and the control of your service are carried out. Apparently, there's nothing going on for you there either. Well, there are many recommendations in the 73-page file. I hope that Members here will be given an answer to the question of what you have done with all these recommendations from the Court of Auditors. I find the punishment you dare to say that you have handled communication well. One can argue here that I speak loudly. I may also be annoyed, but that statement is a laughing matter. You didn't do that right, sir. You really didn't do that right. I hope you'll do better today. You say that there is only one question, namely whether the eggs can still be eaten. You believe that you have answered that question clearly and clearly. If you had done so, we would not have been called back on vacation and we and the ministers were not here. There has been no ready-made answer, no simple answer. I have heard the phrase somewhere: "Fipronil is forbidden and therefore we do not control it." That's not good communication. In your opinion, there is no problem with reporting to Europe either. You were on time and followed the rules of Europe. But I saw two very angry Commissioners yesterday. Why would they give such weird displays at press conferences if you follow the rules? They were very angry about the late notification of Europe on 6 July, when you yourself were already aware of the issue on 9 May. I also hear you saying that the Regions were aware. I hope that's right. We will check with the Flemish minister. I don't know if it's true. After the positive story of how well the BFSA works, I hear you say in summary that you have correctly applied European regulations. I will not repeat it, but you do not apply it correctly. The recommendations of the Court of Auditors also state that Europe is asking your agency for more information on the fact that you are not doing enough checks on the controls of the companies themselves. I myself summarize and I would very much like to hear from you a confirmation that that is true. So, after your explanation, I may conclude that everything is fine, because products with values above 0.005 do not enter the food chain. I really hope that's true, because then we won't have to come back here. Moreover, if you are suggesting that we are exaggerating, I really hope that your statement is correct. If it is true that everything with values above 0.005 milligrams does not end up in the food racks anymore, I would advise you to mention that as the first point on your website and to say in all the news tonight that everything is in order. Don't get us wrong, and I think I'm speaking on behalf of some of my colleagues. We do not enjoy it at all, if the values are not good. If they conform, as you say in your speech, then make a statement tonight that we can eat all kinds of eggs and all derived products, because anything with values above 0.005 milligrams never enters the food chain. All consumers, but certainly all companies, will be very grateful to you. I hope you will answer my question later.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-08-09-54-commissie-ic720x.u71	In fact, the Belgian authorities have treated this as a trivial problem, one among 700 others. There! "Nothing special. It's all right. If it were to be done again, we'd do the same thing again." I can't accept that explanation, and I'm telling you frankly. When the signals are given, not the first but the second, on June 9, the third, on June 14, and the fourth, on June 21, and each time you confirm that there is a problem, that a prohibited product is present with us, you must react differently! I'm not targeting you personally, Mr. Ducrame, you weren't there yet. I am targeting the Belgian authorities as a whole. You had to do something else! You had to inform farms, inform citizens, and inform European countries, even if Europe tells you: "Well, that's so bad. We don't need that information. We don't publish it." You were supposed to send the information. The best proof is that you do it on the 19th vis-à-vis the Netherlands. There you send the information specifically to one country and the others, they will wait! In fact, the Netherlands that you are so blaming today, are doing exactly like you. They waited too! The Agency probably did not inform its minister since in the minister's letter (you read, Mr.Ducarme, the minister's letter to the Speaker of the House?), He doesn't mention that element. The first date mentioned in the letter of the Minister of the Netherlands is 19 June when Belgium asks. The rest is not here. Yes, their agency has the same reflex as ours, saying it's probably a problem among others. Systematically, we're downplaying. Why? Because the Agency's analysis does not consider systemic risk. All this is due to a situation of stress on large industrial farms linked to red lice. Why? There was confinement, too. In relation to these sectors there is a "two-weight, two-measure" when comparing the intensity of what is done at the level of the rather artisanal sectors. Remember other crises in Belgium recently. I cannot accept the situation today where our control system says that "everything has gone as it should have been," when we see the situation in which we are today. When I read this, Mr. Ducrame, I come back to what you said on the radio. I understand the process, I say, but I can't share it. You wanted to reassure the consumer, the families by saying on the radio on Tuesday that all the contaminated eggs were removed. That's true for what happened after July 20th. You cannot claim this for the period from May 2016 to June 2017, especially with regard to egg products, derivatives that are still on sale in our stores, but also in France and Germany. You can't say that none of them contain contaminated eggs until we realize the problem and act.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-08-09-54-commissie-ic720x.u72	Mr Nollet, I can hear you well and I want to answer you on a number of points. The first, as you noted in the report, is that there have already been seized eggs and farms blocked before July 20 - already from June. The second element is related to the publication of all the rates, which I have requested. We agree on the need for this. The Agency was confident that the results would be achieved sooner. That is why we decided to communicate them, even if incomplete. You must have analyzed this in a scrupulous and profound way. You've seen how low our rates are.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-08-09-54-commissie-ic720x.u73	What are you aiming at, Mr. Ducrame?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-08-09-54-commissie-ic720x.u74	Of all the tests carried out, a number of rates are non-compliant but remain low compared to the European critical threshold, apart from the one taken into account by the counter-expertise yesterday. That is still something we have to take into account, isn't it! If we had, of the 86 farms, all the rates that are close to the European upper limit, I think that the debate today would be different. Some, even non-compliant, rates have led to the suspension of farm activities, although they do not in themselves constitute a direct health hazard. Another element. I asked the AFSCA to inform me - because we had new elements to deal with according to the necessary complementary measures that were taken yesterday - about the breakages and past productions. Depending on the questions addressed to AFSCA and their answers, we will see how far we can go back. We will also take stock of this. When I speak of transparency for the present, I am also talking about tomorrow, to really produce precautionary measures towards the health of the consumer, not to mention the need for transparency for the past. I await information that will allow us to know the exact number of samples that remain available. Mr Diricks, you know how much I care about this. We are not in the situation in the Netherlands. I got the German minister online. He asked me for a certain amount of information. We set up a liaison officer, all of which was extremely quickly. We have had contacts with the European Commissioner. It's the same thing. In contrast to the problems which have arisen from the Netherlands, I would like to work in full transparency. And I think - I still have to have a telephone contact with him at 5 p.m. - that he understood our willingness to work in that direction. This is a notable difference, because I am convinced that this is the way we can be better equipped to fight in a case like fipronil, just as perhaps in other cases to come. Therefore, it is a matter of enhanced cooperation in relation to a number of regular food security hazards.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-08-09-54-commissie-ic720x.u75	Minister, I will recognize two things. First, the fact that from August 8, you demanded greater transparency from AFSCA, and you got it. It is a fact that before that, there was not the same transparency and we were hiding behind the excuse of justice. Today, however, we can see that this was only an excuse, since we can now make more transparency. That I recognize you. Secondly, in your reply, now you are actually confirming the whole problem of what you call "the eggs of the past", that is, those before July 18-19-20. We have to go back to an indefinite date. I say, potentially, from the beginning of May 2016. It's not certain, but in any case, there are eggs from the past. I gave you an example of a contact I had last night with an agricultural company that was out of business in April. These eggs of the past, they are in the food products of today, in the mayonnaise sold today in Belgium, France, Italy or elsewhere. You cannot tell the consumer today that these eggs of the past are no longer a problem. So I really invite you to put pressure, as you have done for the eggs of the present, on the AFSCA and the stakeholders, so that these eggs can be removed from the past from the market, if they are problematic. Because there, we are facing a problem that persists today. I would also like to thank the Presidents for having convened this committee today and the Ministers for having reported to us. But when I say that this committee has made it possible to bring more clarity, it is about the 20% of the visible part of the iceberg! The eggs of the past are 80%! And on that, we're totally in a vacuum! And on that, the AFSCA must quickly provide us with answers! When we make the agenda for the next one, I will of course come back with these elements. These eggs of the past are actually in the products still in store today. I know that we do not agree on this, at least at this stage, but the control system has failed. I cannot join you, Mr. Ducrame, when you say that there has been a situation beyond the standard of toxicity. We made a good difference earlier. There's a situation. I'll say it differently. I will present the same situation differently: 100% of the counter-expertise showed that there was a problem. For now, you've made a counter-expertise. You asked for six. Of 86 holdings. I challenge you, Mr. Ducrame, to ask AFSCA to proceed randomly to other counter-expertise on laboratories other than the only one that is cited and that has been used for the time being. Do you agree with this proposal? Do you agree to ask AFSCA to carry out other counter-expertise in a random manner with respect to laboratory results? That makes sense to me, given the scale of the crisis, given the crisis of confidence. Otherwise, in a few days, we will be called upon to meet again and potentially rest the same questions. You will have lost days again, if not weeks, for consumers and neighbouring countries. What does it cost you to ask for about ten or fifteen counter-expertise? What's stopping you from doing that? What's blocking you in there? You who have had the courage to intervene to force AFSCA to become more transparent. Are you really impossible? Don't answer me immediately. Take some time to think about it tonight. Are you really unable to ask for more counter-expertise, so that we can not think that counter-expertise is only done when the results are bad and not when they are good? This will restore confidence in the system. But we'll have to go further. As I said earlier in response to a colleague, self-control is useful and allows for the introduction of elements. But we still have to question the fact that malfeasance is possible for almost a year before self-control brings this information.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-08-09-54-commissie-ic720x.u76	"Malversations," Mr. Nollet?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-08-09-54-commissie-ic720x.u77	It's fraud. Give me another word. The minister used the word "fraud". I use "malversations." We can use other words, but I think things are clear. Mrs Cassart, I am not targeting agricultural enterprises, but the company that introduced fipronil into agricultural holdings. I think here we can talk about fraud. I accept that you are minimizing the government's problem, but not that of this company that brought the product, which I believe is banned as soon as it exceeds the only one of 0.005 that we have mentioned. She is the fraudster and the farms are the victims. Mr Ducrame, I also have a lack of a clear answer on your part with regard to compensation. You could send this signal today, the media are present. This demand will become increasingly pressing on farms. I know you could be sensitive to it. I ask you to give a commitment, even temporary and in terms of cash flow, to relieve the sector. I have explained to you the cases that have been experienced and that are dramatic.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-08-09-54-commissie-ic720x.u78	I think you understand that we are aware of the industry's concern. We have already held a meeting last week and we know that the losses are likely to be very significant for the sector. As I said, there will be a meeting with the sector tomorrow morning to review the whole situation on the ground. Today, the priority remains the protection of consumer health, in collaboration with industry stakeholders who are aware of the need to eliminate all fraudsters in their work. They include actions taken by the government to protect consumer health. We also know how heavy the burden is for them. Mr Nollet, you must be fully aware of our concern about this problem. That is why we will hold a meeting tomorrow morning.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-08-09-54-commissie-ic720x.u79	What is good is that in the momentum created by the presidents, we can quickly have a feedback on the results of this meeting. I therefore leave this item pending until subsequent meetings. I will also come back to the budget cuts. I have not heard anything about it, either from the government or from the AFSCA. A decrease of 18% necessarily leads to problems on the ground. I will also go back to the failure to follow up on the recommendations of the Court of Auditors. You didn't say anything. Madam Minister, the protocol can work on oversight, but the situation is not satisfactory on the principle itself. It reverses priorities. Guardianship on the AFSCA must belong to Public Health. Here too, I ask you to reflect and reverse. Not that Minister Ducrame is critical of this, but on the principle itself, the supervision of food safety must depend on public health. I won't get out of it! Finally, we will have to control differently, at European and Belgian level, but that will not be enough. It will also be necessary to produce and consume differently. This will be discussed more broadly in other work.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-08-09-54-commissie-ic720x.u80	Mr Ducrame, as with others, you have succinctly answered a number of my questions. I've asked you about 15 of them. If you and your firm are committed to responding, I would like to receive these answers quickly. My questions are for everyone, including farmers and consumers and citizens who we are all. There were questions about egg consumption, derivatives, farmers' compensation and compensation, application and cash flow of small businesses because eggs are blocked and sales are prevented. I would therefore have liked to have these answers as soon as possible. As for the fipronil question, I hear Mr. Diricks' answer from AFSCA, but I tried to surf the AFSCA website. I had some difficulty finding exactly what I was looking for. But your spokesperson will probably send me a link in relation to all these products that are systematically analyzed, including illegal products. I wish I could have consulted them. As far as your agency is concerned, you explained to us that the information was not coming to you quickly. However, when one knows how to deal with a problem of illicit product, one will try to look for this information or, in any case, the precautionary principle will encourage the rejection of products for which there is suspicion. I'd really appreciate it if we did. I would remind you that we are facing an illegal substance and an illicit product. Mr Ducrame, when you say that "the overall rates are minimal". In this case, there is no need to discuss a low or low rate. We are facing an illegal, illegal product. A sanction must be applied and I am waiting for you on the matter for further consideration, especially in view of the need to be vigilant. It is not because we have convened this committee today that the situation must be trivialised and the problem is not important. It goes on tomorrow morning and tonight too, because I don't know what we're going to find out again. I hope it's nothing, but I'm paying attention to what might happen. All the more so since you are going to have to restore confidence in consumers, farmers and we have to start again on new bases. That was the subject of my earlier comment on the audit. We must indeed go back on a new basis; we must probably undertake a thorough reform; we must sponsor an audit and continue, Mr President, the work of our committee in an attempt to stimulate reflections and possible new measures. Our work is a work of legislators. We must therefore pay attention to this and follow up on this work. Trust, as Jean-Paul Sartre said, is something that is lost by liters and gets dripped. You can imagine the work that awaits us. I have one final question to ask in relation to today's debate and to this issue of risk. It is addressed to Mr Diricks. I would have liked to know if AFSCA had convened its Scientific Committee to conduct the risk assessment on this fipronil issue. As I recall, in your procedures, all risk assessments go through this scientific committee. Has this been done? What were his answers to this question? I would have liked to hear you on the subject so that I could continue to move forward. Thank you for this additional information.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-08-09-54-commissie-ic720x.u81	Mr President, it is a fact that many questions have been asked and for which no specific answers have been received. I guess that will come. Further meetings are likely to take place and the Minister will be able to respond with precision. I have a few questions to ask Mr Diricks. You say that the AFSCA did not notify its supervising minister that on the 24th, when you were informed of the problem seven weeks earlier. This delay is really difficult to understand despite your explanations. The AFSCA states that it was informed by the Public Prosecutor's Office of the presence of fipronil in an operator on 20 July, obliging him to block production on the farms concerned during the weekend of 21 July and asking him to warn his customers, both the large areas and the food processing industries of eggs. Why did you inform the Federal Minister for Agriculture only after this blockage had been carried out and not before? It's hard for me to understand all of this. The AFSCA initially took hold behind the secrecy of the investigation to justify its late communication. In Monday's press release, it stands behind the fact that there was no contamination of a greater extent. So do you confirm that you only report results to your appropriate minister in case of large-scale contamination? How do you assess this large threshold? How was fipronil used on farms that were blocked? Was it used only to clean the hens or was it also used to treat the laying hens themselves? According to small producers, the AFSCA would mobilize more against small producers than against large companies. It's a disturbing element. To this, you reply in the press this Tuesday that in this case, there are also small producers whose operation has been blocked. Can you give us details of their proportion and location? Is the contamination suspected or proven? Finally, your Monday press release stated that a very low dose of fipronil, 0.096 mg/kg, was detected among 21 operators, whereas the European limit value is 0.72 mg/kg, as has been said. However, 86 farms have been blocked, 51 of which are still blocked. Why have so many farms been blocked? Is this blocking solely due to the precautionary principle? Your Monday press release states that the results from the other 30 farms are not yet known. In fact, 26 of them would not have been sampled yet. When will this sampling take place? These are very practical questions, but I think they may be useful in understanding the future of this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-08-09-54-commissie-ic720x.u82	Mr Diricks, you say that you have a warm heart for the BFSA, which is now bleeding a little bit. Well, my heart is bleeding too, because the BFSA, which I stood with at the cradle of, used to work very well and now it turns square there. I'm sorry you're going into defense cramp like that. We are all sitting here as concerned adults to find a solution to the problems that have been there in recent weeks. That is therefore a constructive point, which is not meant to be destructive. So I'm sorry to see you cramp like that. Indeed, there is no risk-free society, and I fully agree with that. That is where I share Mr Vercammen's opinion. However, every citizen has the right to be completely transparent about what is on his plate. That didn't happen now. However, I keep the two ministers' express promise that they want and will ensure full transparency. That is the positive thing I have heard today. So it also means that the question of calling the committee together has been successful and was justified. Finally, I did not receive an answer to my question as to how far the evaluation of the BFSA is going, as I read out from the policy paper. Nor have I received an answer to the question about the impact of the savings, either fully or in terms of the question about the derived products. Finally, I have a very small, punctual question. I read in the table on page 4 that on Monday 19/6 you asked a formal question to the Dutch NVWA and sent a reminder on Monday 26/6. What am I supposed to understand under that? Have you asked a formal question in a letter, an email or a telephone?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-08-09-54-commissie-ic720x.u83	I now give the floor to both ministers and to Mr Diricks to answer the specific questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-08-09-54-commissie-ic720x.u84	I understand your question on the general policy note, as I understand Mr Nollet's question on the Court of Auditors' report. I'll tell you that I haven't had the time yet, but I promise to take it. It is clear that under the conditions that led me to take office, I am fully committed to managing the crisis that we are going through.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-08-09-54-commissie-ic720x.u85	With regard to the discussion of the different profiles and everything that happens in a laboratory, I would like to discuss it, but these will be aspects of detail, really technical. Different reasons may explain that the results of two laboratories differ at a certain level. But here, the difference between values was too great to be explained. So, we are currently conducting an investigation to understand where such a difference comes from.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-08-09-54-commissie-ic720x.u86	When do you think you have the results of this investigation?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-08-09-54-commissie-ic720x.u87	Honestly, I don't know. We asked to have all the samples available as soon as possible for the release of the different companies, with accredited and validated analyses. Above all, I want to draw your attention to this. It is clear, as has been said, that maximum time limits are required under a contract with a laboratory. These deadlines were foreseen. But I think the labs have been overflowed. We sent a lot of samples. It was not the sampling that took place late, but the result of the analyses. Do I want to throw the stone in the labs? I believe that the circumstances are exceptional and that they too have had difficulty following in this work. If you wish, you can always be given the precise reasons why analyses may differ from one laboratory to another. On the question of the scientific committee, in fact, there was no obligation to request a scientific evaluation. The scientific evaluation was conducted by the AFSCA, which determined an ARD and an ADI. Once the basic data are available, they can be combined to define the thresholds below which one must stay in order not to have a problem in terms of public health. I think even on our website, you can find an Excel document allowing you, by encoding the matrix and product, to calculate yourself a threshold above and below which there is a potential public health problem. If you really want to have all the information about the control program and the execution of our control program, you need to surf on our site, to the meetings of the advisory committee. All reports of the Scientific Committee, including all documents submitted to them, are included. You can download them. The monitoring programme submitted each year to the Scientific Committee is also included. There is also a misunderstanding about the different dates. We're talking about the 9th and 15th of May. However, the date of laying, the date of sampling, should not be confused with the date on which the Agency was informed by the operator. This is the trigger moment for us. That's why our painting starts on June 2. I don't think we tried to hide behind the secret investigation. Attempts have been made to communicate as much as possible and to provide general information. The prosecutor's office didn't prohibit us. I can assure you that if anything had been relevant to the protection of public health, we would have published it. We could have a long debate. It's always the same thing: a decision has to be made at some point. In this case, this decision was first to communicate in a general way by reassuring the public that there was then no danger to human health. We would also like to draw your attention to the fact that fipronil is prohibited in poultry but can be used as a pesticide or plant protection product. For example, the MRL on onions may be 0.01. You have to be careful not to confuse everything. We must live with the fact that there is no risk-free society. I fully agree with you there. We have also tried throughout the discussion, in the communication of the agency, to give a reassuring message, if we could. We have never been able to demonstrate for a moment that we gave a reassuring message when we had information that was not reassuring. Everyone involved in a startup likes to see it continue to evolve well. We are also working on this every day. I mentioned earlier that we have introduced quality systems. I will not go into this now, but I can give you dozens of initiatives in which we try to improve our workings. I am certainly not going to say, as one of the speakers said, that we think that everything is okay. We work constantly, every day to improve our workings. We are constantly working to see how we can use the limited resources available to us as efficiently and efficiently as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-08-09-54-commissie-ic720x.u88	Thank you very much, Mr. Diricks. For the time being, I have two requests for intervention. If there is a third round, I would like the speeches to be brief.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-08-09-54-commissie-ic720x.u89	I have a sub-question about a question I asked Mr Diricks about laboratories. I would really like to have a very specific answer. When talking about counter-expertise, can you tell us at the moment what is or is the laboratory(s) responsible for these counter-expertise(s)? How many counter-expertise are in progress? When are the results of these ongoing counter-expertise expected?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-08-09-54-commissie-ic720x.u90	Mr Diricks, you said that as a result of the information, you started your work on 22 June. You informed the Commission on 6 July. You responded to the European procedure on 20 July and you notified the cabinet on 24 July. I would like you to confirm that this is the timing and that it corresponds to a normal and precise management of the file. This is important for the order of business.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-08-09-54-commissie-ic720x.u91	Mr Diricks, I only had one question, but it has not yet been answered. I asked if you could confirm that everything with values above 0.005 milligrams will not enter the food chain today.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-08-09-54-commissie-ic720x.u92	I had one final question in relation to your table, about which I asked what the definition of a formal question to the Netherlands is.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-08-09-54-commissie-ic720x.u93	Mr Diricks, can we come back to you for these few specific supplementary questions?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-08-09-54-commissie-ic720x.u94	Mr President, as far as counter-analyses, counter-inspections or counter-expertise are concerned, it must be borne in mind that they stem from the legislation according to which, whenever the Agency takes a sample, it must be possible for the operator to make a counter-analysis on his product. This is an important element for the respect of the rights of the defence. The Agency tries to have a sample that is as representative as possible, then splits it in half. One sample is kept at the operator's disposal; the other sample is analyzed at our premises. In the event of an unfavourable result, it is up to the operator to choose whether to perform a counter-analysis. In a second stage, it may designate or use an accredited laboratory, in which an analysis can be carried out on the basis of a validated method. In this case, an operator was blocked because he had non-compliant lots. He submitted the request for analysis of his counter-sample. Hence this result. We've taken samples everywhere. All operators have the right to request a cross-analysis of their samples. But I can't predict how much will ask. [[(...): (...)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-08-09-54-commissie-ic720x.u95	That's not exactly what you asked for. Now we will analyze why there is such a difference. We're not exactly going to do this as part of a counter-expertise. As far as timing is concerned, it should not be forgotten that between 2 June and 13 July it was a Belgian operator, but the food and service provider came from the Netherlands. In this context, it is essential to have the responses of the Netherlands. We can't even ask for a list of these clients. It is therefore obvious that colleagues in the Netherlands are called first, then a formal e-mail request is made. On 6 July, a message had to be sent via the European system.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-08-09-54-commissie-ic720x.u96	It's not the Commission?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-08-09-54-commissie-ic720x.u97	Yes, there is a European system.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-08-09-54-commissie-ic720x.u98	You are using the European system, but it is not a message to the Commission but to the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-08-09-54-commissie-ic720x.u99	No, but the Commission is informed and sends the message to the receiving country. Europe is therefore aware of this on 20 July. To answer another question, the search took place on 20 July. It must be understood that following the search, we have to strip many documents and the personnel, according to the timing, began to strip this data on 21, 22 and 23 in order to allow us, on the 24th, to have an assessment of the extent of the incident. At that time, we immediately saw that the matter was important and we notified the Minister on the 24th. However, it must be understood that there is a time when the problem seems limited to service providers from the Netherlands. In addition, another problem was that, according to our data, the operator was using a certain product. We sampled from a firm different kinds and types of raw materials to compose this product and when we had the results of the analyses, these products were compliant. There is a Belgian operator who has delivered products to a service provider in the Netherlands and the products are compliant in Belgium. What more can we do? I understand your question, of course, Mrs Lambrecht, but I believe that Mrs Dedry has already given the answer: there is no risk-free society. We have taken all the measures and used all the material means to remove all the products that we knew had to be withdrawn from the market. We can guarantee that.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-08-09-54-commissie-ic720x.u100	You'll be able to reassure the entire population tonight, won't you? Then why isn't that happening?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-08-09-54-commissie-ic720x.u101	We have said all along that there was no problem for public health.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-08-09-54-commissie-ic720x.u102	If you say all the time that there is no problem for public health, I do not understand why you are not repeating it on all the media tonight, with both ministers on your side. It is not possible for us to go into a game where you say there is no problem. It is true that there is no risk free. We're not talking about 0, we're talking about 0.005. I understand that this is not harmful to health.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-08-09-54-commissie-ic720x.u103	Excuse me. I had a discussion with a journalist who suddenly told me that was the answer. You actually want an answer to two different questions. The first question is whether the product is in conformity. If the value is above 0,005, the product is non-compliant and must be from the market, with everything on it, including tracing and extracting it from the racks. If one asks whether the product is safe, another method of analysis will be applied and the products that have entered the market will be compared with the limit value determined on the basis of the toxicological data. Above 0.005 does not mean that the product is not safe. 0.005 is only a limit that shows that the product is in it. Underneath, there is too much uncertainty due to the methods of analysis. I don't know if I've created a lot of confidence in analytical methods here, but, well, most of them are reliable. I'll have an egg and an onion. The egg has an MRL of 0,005, an onion MRL of 0,01. This difference is due to the fact that this limit is not a toxicological limit but a limit set by taking into account both toxicology and good agricultural practice. If one has a product with an MRL of 0,01 decanoate even if one goes above it, there is in principle no problem. There is a danger to public health only if the limit value is exceeded, determined on the acute reference dose.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-08-09-54-commissie-ic720x.u104	I apologize, but it's still a very complicated explanation.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-08-09-54-commissie-ic720x.u105	That is precisely why we said to the people that there is no danger to public health.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-08-09-54-commissie-ic720x.u106	There's no danger, but can't you keep saying that? If there's no danger, we don't have to sit here anymore. By the way, I am just getting the message that there is nothing wrong with the accusations made by the Belgian Minister of Agriculture at the Dutch address, says the boss of the Dutch food agency. I'd like to share that with you, too.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-08-09-54-commissie-ic720x.u107	I asked the question what formal means.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-08-09-54-commissie-ic720x.u108	But you didn't get an answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-08-09-54-commissie-ic720x.u109	A formal question is a clear and clear e-mail with the question to give us additional information.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-08-09-54-commissie-ic720x.u110	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Mrs Winckel, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-08-09-54-commissie-ic720x.u111	Thank you, Mr. President. I would like to look back on what my colleague from Sp.a said, whether the information is true or not. Apparently the Dutch minister said that the Belgian accusations were false. I said earlier: this is a serious accusation and that is why I asked for copies of the letters. Now it is really important for the ministers here to be able to tell us clearly what is happening and to present us with the evidence of these elements.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-08-09-54-commissie-ic720x.u112	Minister, what is happening is obviously not convenient. You took the trouble of loading the Netherlands and we welcomed it as information you were giving. With the information that comes back to us now, we must have full transparency on this aspect too, you will understand it. When you charge the Dutch minister, you also imply that you have not yet had direct contact with him. In contrast to your direct contact with your German counterpart. I don't think I'm wrong in saying that you had a first contact scheduled at 5:00. If that is the case, Mr. Chairman, I propose that the Minister be allowed to contact him at 5 p.m. and that the item be re-examined at 5:30 p.m. or 6:00 p.m. so as to have all the information on the current contact and relationship situation. If what the Dutch Minister says denies what has been said here in committee, I think we will have to continue our work today.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-08-09-54-commissie-ic720x.u113	Two elements. I was not supposed to speak with the Dutch minister today but with the German minister. I sent a letter to the Dutch colleague on the basis of a note which was forwarded to AFSCA and which contains the information I indicated to you concerning the fipronil signal in November 2016. It is an internal note at the level of the Dutch Agency. It's an element. The other factor is that the Netherlands did not respond spontaneously. Mr Diricks and the Agency have asked more than three times, for a month, to have the information related to the list of customers of the Dutch firm. So, listen! I am of good will in relation to the work we have to produce together at European level, but frankly, when we did not wish to provide such important information on consumer protection in our country, i.e. after more than a month, we had to resort to Belgian justice in order to finally obtain from Dutch justice the list of customers of the Dutch firm which, in fact, - and this was confirmed by the tests then - proposed to Belgian operators a fipronil-based service, it is just a reality. I, Mr. Nollet, did not intend to justify myself more than that. The elements I have in my possession have made me write to my Dutch colleague. Indeed, I would like to have an answer. I will make the answer available to Parliament. The facts on which I rely are tangible. They were passed on to me by the AFSCA. The AFSCA, of course, has measured all the importance, all the difficulty in communicating this to you in the report you received today. It's an important element that you had to communicate to yourself, simply because it's part of his investigation. I repeat: the AFSCA investigation was not able to determine the suspect perimeter more quickly given the lack of cooperation of the Dutch Agency. It's just a fact. It is clear that I will have contacts with my Dutch colleague. In my relations with the European partners, I understand well not to be grudged, but to work together. I have indicated this on several occasions. We must make sure that we exchange more together. We have set up a liaison officer in relation to Germany. I have the same ambition for the Netherlands. I believe that we must have technical cooperation of this kind. Truth has its rights. It was essential, since we are acting in a transparent manner on the work done, that you have access to all the information that has been provided to me on this matter by the Agency.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-08-09-54-commissie-ic720x.u114	Minister, I would like to ask a very brief question to make sure that we are certainly talking about the right things. This morning you said that you know that in November 2016 there was fipronil in eggs in the Netherlands. According to newly released reports, that claim is incorrect. Who speaks the truth, the Dutch food agency or our Belgian minister? Maybe you weren't sure about your ruling? After all, it is essential, in response to the question of guilt, in which you still want to blame the Netherlands somewhat, that a problem of fipronil in Dutch eggs had already been identified in November 2016. I would therefore like a very clear answer to the question of whether or not the Dutch Food Agency is currently distributing incorrect information.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-08-09-54-commissie-ic720x.u115	Minister, in relation to this November 2016 document, could you inform us more about the information in your possession, to say that this document was relevant to eggs? Current reactions from the Netherlands show more evidence of fipronil in stables. Is there not confusion in the information you have received? Can you tell us what was the exact content of the information that allowed you to point out, as you did, the responsibility of the Netherlands in November 2016? I'm not talking about later because I also have the lack of an answer to your mail. I'll come back later. But with regard to November 2016, what was the exact content of the information.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-08-09-54-commissie-ic720x.u116	This is not the absence of a reply to my letters, it is the absence of a reply to the Agency for several months. The Agency received a note which was communicated to me, not in November 2016 but in July of this year. This note contains the elements in relation to the signals I spoke to you about, as early as November 2016 at the level of the Netherlands. Therefore, the Agency wanted to communicate this element as part of the report related to its investigation presented today. It is a document which she has presented and which, of course, seems quite reliable, otherwise she would not have attached it to the report which I asked her to present to you today.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-08-09-54-commissie-ic720x.u117	Thank you, but if it is a document that is given to you through our BFSA, Mr Ducarme, who really is only there for a week, all the understanding that it is not on your mind to support the story that you have to do today and you are briefed that the document on the Netherlands says that fipronil has already been found in 2016, then the head of our BFSA must say whether that document is about fipronil in stables or fipronil that is already in eggs. I think that's what we want to know. We do hear you giving the Netherlands great responsibility because it would not have been said that there is fipronil in the Netherlands already in November 2016. But essential, by the head of our BFSA you must be informed whether that is fipronil that is in stables or in eggs. I think I should ask the head of our food agency, taking into account the short term. Mr Diricks, can you answer me so that we can talk about the same thing? Is it about fipronil in stables or fipronil in eggs, in November 2016 in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-08-09-54-commissie-ic720x.u118	...it's right in the document.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-08-09-54-commissie-ic720x.u119	I beg your pardon? Are you saying it's the way it is in the document? For the record, is this about fipronil in eggs or fipronil in stables in the Netherlands in November 2016?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-08-09-54-commissie-ic720x.u120	Our report states that they were aware of fipronil and its use in the Dutch poultry sector and on laying farms in particular.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-08-09-54-commissie-ic720x.u121	Is that in stables or is that already in the eggs that the fipronil is sitting? [[Still slight hilarity in the room]] I think that is a strange thing, and I do not find it very trusting, that you always get so intense in the simplest questions. Is that so difficult that the head of the BFSA says: "Mrs Lambrecht, in the egg, I confirm that"? Is it so hard to say that what I read in new articles is not correct and that the Netherlands is now lying flagrantly? Is it so hard to say?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-08-09-54-commissie-ic720x.u122	"The question of the chicken and the egg" is a philosophical question that could lead us far, Madam Minister, but I just have to know that it concerns the chicken and the egg, in any case, in the information that AFSCA obtains from what is happening in November 2016, via the internal document of its counterpart from the Netherlands. Contrary to what they say, you maintain that this concerns the sector we are talking about. Otherwise, at what point does the AFSCA know about this November 2016 document? Is that in your timeline?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-08-09-54-commissie-ic720x.u123	The note is July 22. I don't remember when I got it.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-08-09-54-commissie-ic720x.u124	So, the internal note, at your house, is from July 22nd. You have received it in the following days, but it does not appear in your timeline.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-08-09-54-commissie-ic720x.u125	We just added that.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-08-09-54-commissie-ic720x.u126	I am not mistaken, it does not appear in the document delivered this morning. Is that the date of July 26th? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-08-09-54-commissie-ic720x.u127	Thank you, Mr. President. I would just like to note that some parliamentarians are more concerned about what is said about the Netherlands than about what is said about their country and, in particular, about its food security control agencies. The Minister specified and the CEO of the AFSCA clarified the shortcomings identified with respect to the Dutch supervisory body. I think that only that is enough already to ask whether or not the friendly country has done its job. So I think that we can stay here rather than try the minister, the AFSCA, and so on. What has been said has been said. Today's report makes it clear in relation to this element. Now, that's enough! That we care a little about the reputation of our country and our food security agency rather than taking care of others.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-08-09-54-commissie-ic720x.u128	Just to reassure our colleague, I would like to tell him that we will of course continue to care about our country as we have to set our agenda and the rest of the agenda. We know and have seen it today, it has been established, that we have been able to work on only 20% of the situation of the problem in our country. I put the question of the Netherlands temporarily aside because, indeed, it was part of the debate but initially in the Minister's speech and then, of course, in the questions and in the reply of parliamentarians. But let us concentrate on our country to see indeed, Mr Minister and Mr President, since we see that there are two different points of view here for the moment on the exchange of information and on what each one knew, how we are going to organize the work of this commission that has been convened for the future. I think that's the next point.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-08-09-54-commissie-ic720x.u129	We will return to that as soon as we have completed the exchange of views.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-08-09-54-commissie-ic720x.u130	Mr President, we have been here since this morning with a lot of additional and contradictory information. I find this very regrettable. This is still a problem of food health and consumer protection. I don't think we should take this lightly. There are several levels in the information given to us today. There is the report sent to us by the AFSCA. It is raw information that is given to us. There are two notes transmitted by the Netherlands, on 22 and 25 July, and email exchanges. There is also what the government does with this information. These are different levels. I still hope that the government has checked this information before presenting it to us today. It is important that the government does not clear its responsibilities. I hope there has been no willingness to twist this information, in a way. That is why I am asking once again, before we start the debate again, for parliamentarians to be aware of the two notes of 22 and 25 July referred to in the report given by the AFSCA this morning. I would also like to know about the letters exchanged with the Netherlands. I want us to talk about our country. I come back to what Mr Ducarme said, which said that it is important to work in good cooperation. I believe that this good collaboration with other European countries requires a climate of trust. We've got to stop firing the ball. At some point, you have to know the truth.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-08-09-54-commissie-ic720x.u131	Mr President, I would like to gather some points of appreciation or clarification on these notes. Indeed, on page 12, Mr. Piedboeuf kindly drew our attention to the fact that the AFSCA was by chance in possession of the notes of July 22 and 25, 2017. Admit that it is a bit special to say that these notes are there "by chance"! Does chance do things well? Did a passenger pigeon drop a note in the AFSCA mailbox and it was found by chance? I would like to know the source of chance because it is somewhat disturbing that we do not know the source of a document submitted by the AFSCA and by the Minister. In order to continue our work, I would like us to be able to validate the documents referred to in the report. There may be others, but we have received the document today and, minister, you will understand that we have not gone through the whole thing, listening to the committee's debates.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-08-09-54-commissie-ic720x.u132	Mr President, it is not my intention to argue about this. I was able to present the report I had requested from AFSCA. You've received the history of the items since July 2nd. AFSCA has chosen to provide us with this information, because it considers it to be perfectly credible. Of course, I am not questioning the AFSCA's judgment on this matter, on the one hand, because we know the difficulties it has experienced in exchanging information with the Dutch for more than a month at a key point in the beginning of the fipronil crisis and, on the other hand, we know the relevant elements which were also communicated to our agency regarding the fipronil signal at the level of November 2016 in the Netherlands. You can obviously question with some vigour the content transmitted by the Agency. That calls me in and reminds me of what Mr. Piedboeuf just said. Some should, however, judge the fact that our administration, in preparing a report to be presented to Parliament, does not make a slight commitment as to the content of the information transmitted.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-08-09-54-commissie-ic720x.u133	Colleagues, we had almost seven hours of meeting. Earlier, I had the feeling that we had more questions than answers. It shows that matter is vast and that we are not at the end of today. However, we are closing the exchange of views. We still need to discuss the organization of our work. We noted Ms. Winckel's request to obtain the July 22 and 25 notes, e-mails to get the documents, in full transparency. I hope that we can obtain these documents through the secretariat. It's a matter of documents. For the rest, during the speeches, we heard that several colleagues were asking to hear Mr Borsus. We have heard that an audit is being requested of the Court of Auditors, in particular by Mr de Lamotte and others. We have heard Mrs Lambrecht, in particular, ask that our committee hear experts in toxicology and veterinarians. These are the requests made by colleagues. I must be honest: it seems to me that there is not necessarily consensus on these points. I am making a brief summary, but I just want to point out to you that from a regulatory point of view, a committee may decide on the organisation of its work, but it must have a quorum to do so and that quorum is not currently present. From a regulatory point of view, we can see consensus or differences on the order of business, but I think that we will have to follow up on this committee for the rest. On this point, what I can do, if the committee wants another meeting, is to consult with President Siegfried Bracke, since in August that is how it must work. The president's permission is required to convene a commission in August. In September, it's different. The agenda may then be on the agenda of a future committee. Today, in our committees together, the quorum of members with the right to vote is not reached at this time. Who asks for the floor on the organization of work? Mr. Piedboeuf, please.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-08-09-54-commissie-ic720x.u134	Mr. Chair, as soon as the managing director of the AFSCA clarified the timing of the events and the reason why the cabinet's warning came on a specific date, in this case on July 24, when we know that, as my colleague Friart said this morning, a report was requested by Minister Borsus on the 25th, a meeting on the 26th, and that the next day he was changing his duties, I do not see the value of the minister's hearing as he reacted immediately as soon as he had the information that was confirmed today that it had arrived at a timely time. It has also been seen that Minister Ducrame, although he has not been in office for a long time, has complete control of the case, even though he has said that there is one element that he still has to examine, in particular the Court of Auditors' report. He controls the file, has been completely transparent, has requested a report, has obtained it and has presented it. I therefore do not see the usefulness of having Minister Borsus come, except for political reasons, but rather low. With respect to the audit, the CEO of the AFSCA said that the audit already existed at the AFSCA level up to several times a year by a range of organizations. If we want to add one, we'll have to discuss the content. But it would be more interesting to have a report on the various audits carried out by different institutions, particularly European ones, on our supervisory body. As to whether a new commission is needed, it may be in the interest of having all the information that has been said to be gleaned or communicated before deciding on a commission date.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-08-09-54-commissie-ic720x.u135	Mr President, in my speech on the organisation of further work, I will distinguish two chapters: on the one hand, the documents requested - this part does not seem to me to require a new meeting...
ParlaMint-BE_2017-08-09-54-commissie-ic720x.u136	Mr. Ducarme said that he was open to forwarding the documents.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-08-09-54-commissie-ic720x.u137	If we can list these documents...
ParlaMint-BE_2017-08-09-54-commissie-ic720x.u138	There are letters and e-mails with the Netherlands as well as notes of 22 and 27 July. Is that what we're talking about?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-08-09-54-commissie-ic720x.u139	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-08-09-54-commissie-ic720x.u140	Therefore, the notes to the 22 and 27 are the internal notes to the Netherlands Agency. I would like to add to the list the report of 25 July received by Mr. Ducarme's predecessor. Since we are rightly asked to focus on what is happening in Belgium, I am interested in what the Agency is giving to Minister Borsus.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-08-09-54-commissie-ic720x.u141	I don't see the point. You have received the time line since June 2nd and you want a report until July 25th. I do not understand the interest unless it is again a matter of turning the little political game around Mr Borsus.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-08-09-54-commissie-ic720x.u142	I'll explain to you, Mr. Ducrame, if you don't see or if you don't want to see. What surprises me is that Minister Borsus is in possession of the first information on the 25th, since he has the first information on the 24th and asks for a report which he obtains on the 25th. Why does Minister Borsus not act as you did last Tuesday by asking for the most complete transparency immediately, when at that time, on the part of the Agency, we avoid this transparency? I want to see what is in this famous report of 25 July, not on the timeline, but on what is in this report. What does the Agency bring as information at that time to its appropriate minister? I think that's transparency. Just now, Mr Ducrame, you yourself have shown your openness and commitment to making the most transparency in this area vis-à-vis the committees that have come together. I don't see why this report would become taboo. If it is not taboo, then I think Parliament deserves to have a copy of this report dated 25 July.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-08-09-54-commissie-ic720x.u143	We got the confirmation. It was important that this be indicated because some this morning made the noise run that no, in fact, Willy Borsus had been informed much earlier. That's the reality! This is what a number of parliamentarians or press officers were having fun running through the halls of the House or through a number of telephones, with journalists with whom they had good contact. I regret, when we are experiencing a major health crisis, when we talked about our mobilization to protect the health of the consumer because we are facing a Belgian and European problem, which some continue to make of the petty politics. This attitude is not worthy! I believe that the information has been provided and that transparency has been established. So, while in possession of today's AFSCA report, want the one that was passed on to Mr Borsus, because it involves him in the file, which, politically, arranges some... Come on!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-08-09-54-commissie-ic720x.u144	Mr President, I would like to react on the same subject. I don't get into the political game, it's not my type, I don't make phone calls to the press and I don't appear in the press every week. We have been here since this morning and we work all the time, we are always present at the committees. I don't understand that disdain. As parliamentarians, we can ask questions without playing a political game. Otherwise, we don't do politics anymore. Like Mr Nollet, I think it is normal to hear Minister Borsus who heard the report on 25 July. It is natural to know what he knew at that time and to consider why measures were not taken more quickly. I come back to the questions of the beginning of this morning in order to know the protocol used, the weekly or other meetings, between the firm and the AFSCA. I would like to know what was already being done between the AFSCA and Mr. Borsus's office at the time to manage the exchange of information with the AFSCA. I think it's an important element. And worse, now you're talking about a health crisis. You are still going beyond the terms that could have been used throughout the day. I'd rather calm the game. I just want to know what's going on, get the right information, the right answers to our questions, and stop this confusion and go straight to the point. There! There is no political game in this matter as far as I am concerned.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-08-09-54-commissie-ic720x.u145	Mr President, if we want to rebuild trust, we must avoid mistrust. To avoid mistrust, there are existing documents. I think it would be better if they were forwarded to the committee. This will avoid any misunderstanding and setbacks. It's an element. Mr Piedboeuf, you mentioned the fact that there is an audit of the Court of Auditors. There is not necessarily an audit of the Court of Auditors. There is a report from the Court of Auditors. It is, in my opinion, important. Mr. Ducrame said that he was committed to analysing it and returning. I think we need to have a committee and a debate on this report from the Court of Auditors, which draws a number of conclusions. As for audits, the AFSCA CEO said that there were a lot of audits coming from outside agencies. It's an element. A second element that I wanted to introduce, and on which I stress, is the request for an internal audit of the Agency. We can do this with an accompanying committee or parliamentary scrutiny. It's important. The AFSCA is an eminently sensitive body that does its work, but obviously there are some contradictions or difficulties. If we want to regain that confidence, we have to accept that we can put things down. I do this by explicitly asking for an audit. Mr President, we will have committees in the future, whether separate or combined committees. The file will come back no matter what.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-08-09-54-commissie-ic720x.u146	Mr President, I would like to remind you that this morning I asked the question in this direction. Was there a report of 24 July or was the report we received today a condensed report of both reports? I did not have an answer, but to see Minister Ducrame's reaction, there is indeed a report of 25 July. I think it is legitimate, if some of the parliamentarians request it, for this report to be submitted, and not at all for the purpose of entrusting Minister Borsus. I don't think that's the intention. If I make the request, it is not with that intention.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-08-09-54-commissie-ic720x.u147	Minister, you have enough parliamentary experience to know that, in this kind of situation, inevitably, when you refuse access to a document that is at the centre of a chronology of government actions and non-actions, you create suspicion – little or much. It is in your interest to make it public yourself. No one has any interest in this part of reality being obscured. Perhaps there are voids in this document, perhaps things have been corrected afterwards. We know how things can evolve according to information. This document exists; it is dated. Admit that, for someone who came here this morning, delivering a strong speech on transparency, not agreeing to distribute an official document to Parliament, is a real problem. You know as well as I do the legislation on the transparency of administrative documents in environmental matters, you know as well as I do the remedies in our possession. We will have this document. I ask that you and AFSCA consult with us as soon as possible in order to lift any unnecessary suspicion.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-08-09-54-commissie-ic720x.u148	Thank you, Mr. Nollet. I would like to comment to the Minister on this document matter. Since the beginning of this Parliament, I have chaired this Committee on the Economy and we have had lengthy debates on nuclear power. It has often led to discussions on documents that were debated in disclosure. They've always been delivered. No questioning of Mr Borsus is envisaged here. This July 25th report is part of the timeline. On 25 July, the Minister of Agriculture in charge of this matter at that time received the AFSCA report – Mr Borsus mentioned it in the media yesterday. Today, you have asked for a detailed report, probably more comprehensive than that of 25 July. For the members of the committee who are studying this issue, this July 25th report is part of the timeline. I do not see the difficulty of making these documents available to colleagues. It is clear that it was on 24 July that Mr Borsus was informed. One may wonder why it was not earlier. Anyway, he was. This has been confirmed. The timing has been confirmed. I see no difficulty in making this report of 25 July available to colleagues. That is simply my opinion on the subject. I propose that we do not spend an hour on this issue. I'll give you a president's board.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-08-09-54-commissie-ic720x.u149	Mr. President, you're very kind. But in this case, I will not take the commitment to give this note, because it smacks the political game. It's not disdain. I find that trying to revive the issues around the new Walloon Minister-President Reformer... I think you've received a full line of time. I repeat, I think we have produced a fairly high transparency exercise today. Hanging on to Mr. Borsus' pants, as you do, at the opposition level, is still a funny game. Such a difficult debate deserves better than that!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-08-09-54-commissie-ic720x.u150	Allow me to say that I do not understand your answer. It seems to me contradictory with the desire for transparency that you have affirmed the previous days and again this morning. This is not a political game, but simply the need to have all the documentation related to this file. We're not going to epilogue. Ladies and gentlemen, we cannot conclude today. The requests to hear Mr Borsus, colleagues who disagreed, the Court of Auditors' request for an audit, other experts, were well noted. I will first consult my colleagues Mrs Gerkens and Mrs Muylle, and President Bracke, and I will see if it is possible to meet the committee next week. It would be Wednesday. I don't see a chance to do it sooner. I shall then put the agenda on the agenda. Decisions may be taken by a commission with a quorum. That's a proposal!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-08-09-54-commissie-ic720x.u151	Mr President, as far as the order of business is concerned, we have had explanations today about the problem of fibronil, but also about the way in which AFSCA works. For those who wanted to understand and hear, there was a lot of explanation. We have to let the government and the AFSCA work, so they can handle this crisis. There are thousands of pages to be removed, counter-expertise to be received. Justice must also do its job. I'm not for haste. The subject is launched. Let's let the AFSCA work! Let the government work! Let's see you again in September, as planned.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-08-09-54-commissie-ic720x.u152	Mr President, I shall say it calmly. This intervention and, behind it, the will of the majority to turn the page and move on to something else, while...
ParlaMint-BE_2017-08-09-54-commissie-ic720x.u153	But no, we don't want to move on!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-08-09-54-commissie-ic720x.u154	I don't think so.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-08-09-54-commissie-ic720x.u155	So I'll say it again calmly. The will displayed by the majority is to turn the page, move on and wait until September to continue the work. Throughout the day, however, we have pointed out elements in the internal exchanges between the Agency and the government; in the absence of a response, first of all, from the government; in the problems that still remain on the "eggs of the past", in the words of the minister; in the questions that have remained unanswered here. All of this leads to the need for our work to proceed as quickly as possible. I think your proposal to meet the committees next Wednesday is a good proposal. That leaves a week. We are in a crisis situation. I'm not saying it. Read the press if you are not convinced of it yourself, ladies and gentlemen of the majority! But I cannot accept that, in this situation, you will leave before the end of the work in such a way that the quorum is no longer reached. All you have to do is do the calculations.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-08-09-54-commissie-ic720x.u156	There are five of us.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-08-09-54-commissie-ic720x.u157	Excuse me, I didn't point the MR. I say, "the parties of the majority." As far as I know, you're part of it. Look around you who is here today to make the number, and who is not. Colleagues of the Flemish socialist opposition as a Francophone are present. The cdH is present. Ecolo and Groen are present.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-08-09-54-commissie-ic720x.u158	CD&V, Open Vld, MR and N-VA are present!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-08-09-54-commissie-ic720x.u159	Mr President, since everyone is here, since everything is fine, let us vote, since we are in numbers!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-08-09-54-commissie-ic720x.u160	As has been said, there is a crisis to be managed. And there is a need to distinguish between imminent management and short-term issues and thinking about the medium-long term, how we learn from this case and how we try to improve processes. What I can see with Mrs Muylle, co-chairman, is that at that time there is no quorum to take a decision on the organisation of work. I would like to consult with the President, Siegfried Bracke, and Mrs Gerkens and Mrs Muylle, to see what action we are taking on this committee's work this afternoon. I don't think we've gone through all the questions. We've had a long exchange and I still thank all those who have participated in it in whole or in part. Mrs Muylle and I are still thanking the ministers and the AFSCA, but we are likely to have to take action. This case is not completed today. As far as August is concerned, I am consulting with President Bracke, with the Committee on Public Health, and we will see what action will be taken on the work. I can't tell you any more at this point.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-08-09-54-commissie-ic720x.u161	Mr President, I am looking around and I think that since this morning there has been stability in the number of parliamentarians present. We really didn't want to leave right now. The N-VA is present, the Open Vld is present, the CD&V is present and the MR is present. First. Second. We did not say that the debate was over. We are simply saying that it is a bit hasty to set a date for the committee to meet again today. The government is working, the AFSCA is working; the analyses are coming, information is still to be given. The debate is certainly not over. We too, in the majority, still need information and debate here. But start saying that, anyway, next week, a meeting is to take place... You're still going to discuss with the government, Mr. Speaker - because you still have a certain impartiality - with the Speaker of the House how to organize the proceedings. We must do things in a calm and objective manner so that the debate can take place properly.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-08-09-54-commissie-ic720x.u162	I can hear Mrs Cassart's comments. It is true that the committee must meet from the moment when there are complementary elements. But in return, I'd like to have the documents we're asking for. I therefore reiterate this request to have the report of 25 July in order to ascertain the state of knowledge of the government at that time.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-08-09-54-commissie-ic720x.u163	Thank you, Mrs. Winckel. As far as documents are concerned, what I can say is that we must also thank the services because the services make a full account in the language of the author which will be available today, and a summary record in both languages, probably already tomorrow. I thank the services for this important work which is done in the shadows but which is not without importance to leave a trace of all our debates. [[Mr. Minister, we have heard the requests for documents.]] We're gonna let the government and the AFSCA think about it. For the rest, I can't go any further than what was said. I don't give a date. I think this work needs to be continued and I will conduct consultations, including with the government, on the best follow-up to our work. Mr Flahaux wants to add something? I thought I concluded.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-08-09-54-commissie-ic720x.u164	Thank you, Mr. President. I was pretty happy, overall, about the way the day went. Of course, the two ministers gave us first-hand information that was expected. The questions asked still open a whole series of chapters to which we have not answered. I would particularly like to highlight the fact that this crisis has shown that it is absolutely necessary to Europeanise the matter. On this point, I would ask the two ministers, and particularly Mr Ducrame, to bring this matter to the European level so that we can no longer have this ubiquitous situation where everyone draws the cover for himself.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-08-09-54-commissie-ic720x.u165	Thank you for your contribution, Mr. Flahaux. Ladies and gentlemen, the matter is not closed, but I declare the sitting adjourned.
