ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-10-54-plenair-ip187x.u1	The meeting is open. The meeting was opened.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-10-54-plenair-ip187x.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, today the Chamber meets automatically on the basis of Article 44 of the Constitution. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, the House is meeting today, as a matter of law, under section 44 of the Constitution. I declare the session 2017-2018 open. I declare the 2017-2018 session open.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-10-54-plenair-ip187x.u3	The next item is the appointment of the permanent Bureau. The next item is the nomination of the final Bureau. 1. The Agency shall consist of: - the President, - the three Vice-Presidents; - the Bureau members. 2. The Office shall be supplemented by: (a) former Presidents, members of the Chamber; (b) the chairmen of the political groups; (c) an additional member per political group with fewer than 12 members who are not members in No. 1 member of the Office referred to. 1. The Bureau shall be composed as follows: - the President; - three Vice-Presidents; - members of the Bureau. 2. The Bureau shall be supplemented by: (a) former Presidents, members of the House; (b) the chairmen of the political groups; (c) one associate member per political group with fewer than 12 members and without a member of the Bureau referred to in point 1. The President shall be elected in accordance with Rule 157 of the Rules of Procedure. The President shall be appointed in accordance with rule 157 of the Rules of Procedure. The Chamber shall appoint the Vice-Presidents and Bureau members in accordance with Rule 158 No. 1, first sentence, on a proposal from the political groups. The Presidency shall be included in the allocation of these functions according to the proportional representation of the political groups. In addition, as many members as are necessary for each political group with at least 12 members to have at least one member of the Bureau. The Vice-Presidents and members of the Bureau shall be appointed by the Chamber in accordance with Rule 158(1), first sentence, and on the proposal of the political groups, provided that the Presidency is taken into account for the allocation of these functions in accordance with the rule of proportional representation of political groups and that as many appointments are made as is necessary for each political group of at least 12 members to have at least one member on the Bureau.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-10-54-plenair-ip187x.u4	The only election to be held is that of the President of the Chamber. The only appointment to be made is that of the Speaker of the House. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-10-54-plenair-ip187x.u5	Mr President-in-Office, I would like to introduce Mr Siegfried Bracke as President of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-10-54-plenair-ip187x.u6	As only one candidate is nominated, no vote shall be taken. Consequently, Mr Siegfried Bracke was elected President of the Chamber. Since there is only one candidate, there is no vote. As a result, Mr. Siegfried Bracke was elected Speaker of the House. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen, for your confidence.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-10-54-plenair-ip187x.u7	The next item is the appointment of the three Vice-Presidents and the Bureau members. The three Vice-Presidents and the members of the Bureau should be appointed. In accordance with Rules 3, 1 and 158, 1 of our Rules of Procedure, we shall appoint 1 PS, 1 MR, 1 CD&V, 1 N-VA, 1 Open Vld, 1 sp.a and 1 Ecolo-Green in the following order. In accordance with Articles 3, 1, and 158, 1 of our Rules of Procedure, we must appoint in order 1 PS, 1 MR, 1 CD&V, 1 N-VA, 1 Open Vld, 1 sp.a. and 1 Ecolo-Groen. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-10-54-plenair-ip187x.u8	Mr President, I propose Mr André Frédéric.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-10-54-plenair-ip187x.u9	Thank you, Mr. Laaouej. I declare Mr. André Frédéric Vice-President of the House. Mr Clarinval has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-10-54-plenair-ip187x.u10	We propose Mrs Françoise Schepmans, Mr President.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-10-54-plenair-ip187x.u11	I declare Ms. Françoise Schepmans Vice-President of the House.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-10-54-plenair-ip187x.u12	Mr President, I would like to introduce Mrs Sonja Becq.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-10-54-plenair-ip187x.u13	Ms Sonja Becq is Vice-President of the Chamber. For the appointment of the members of the Bureau of the Chamber, I give the floor to Mr De Roover.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-10-54-plenair-ip187x.u14	I'd like to introduce Mrs. Inez De Coninck.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-10-54-plenair-ip187x.u15	Mrs Inez De Coninck is a member of the Bureau. I give the floor to Mr Dewael.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-10-54-plenair-ip187x.u16	I would like to introduce Mr Dirk Van Mechelen, Mr President.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-10-54-plenair-ip187x.u17	Mr Dirk Van Mechelen is a member of the Bureau of the Chamber. I give the floor to Mrs Kitir.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-10-54-plenair-ip187x.u18	We introduce Mrs. Karin Temmerman.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-10-54-plenair-ip187x.u19	Ms Karin Temmerman is a member of the Bureau of the Chamber. I give the floor to Mr. Nollet.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-10-54-plenair-ip187x.u20	Mr President, we have unanimously appointed Mr. Van Hecke for our band.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-10-54-plenair-ip187x.u21	Mr. Stefaan Van Hecke is a member of the Bureau of the Chamber. The following members of the Bureau are also members of the Bureau: - former presidents, members of the House; - the presidents of the political groups: Mr Peter De Roover, Chairman of the N-VA Group; Mr Ahmed Laaouej, Chairman of the PS Group; Mr David Clarinval, Chairman of the MR Group; Mr Servais Verherstraeten, Chairman of the CD&V Group; Mr Patrick Dewael, Chairman of the Open Vld Group; Ms Meryame Kitir, chairman of the sp.a. group; Mr Jean-Marc Nollet, Chairman of the Ecolo-Groen Group; Catherine Fonck, president of the cdH group; - one associate member per political group with fewer than 12 members and without a member on the Bureau. I give the floor to the chair of the cdH group who does not have a member of the Bureau appointed by the House for the appointment of an associate member. The Office shall also include: - former Presidents, member of the Chamber; - the chairmen of the political groups: Mr Peter De Roover, Chairman of the N-VA Group; Mr Ahmed Laaouej, Chairman of the PS Group; Mr David Clarinval, Chairman of the MR Group; Mr Servais Verherstraeten, Chairman of the CD&V Group; Mr Patrick Dewael, Chairman of the Open Group; Ms Meryame Kitir, Chairman of the sp.a. Group; Mr Jean-Marc Nollet, Chairman of the Ecolo-Green Group; Ms Catherine Fonck, Chairman of the CdH Group; - an additional member per political group with fewer than 12 members who do not have a member of the Bureau. I give the floor to the chairman of the CdH Group, who has not been appointed to the Bureau by the Chamber, for the appointment of an additional member.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-10-54-plenair-ip187x.u22	Mr President, we propose Mr. Francis Delperée.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-10-54-plenair-ip187x.u23	I declare Mr. Francis Delperee an associate member of the Bureau.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-10-54-plenair-ip187x.u24	The Chamber has been declared lawful and complete. This will be notified to the King, to the Senate and to the Community and Regional Parliaments. The Chamber is constituted. This will be made known to the King, the Senate and the parliaments of the Community and the Region. That Kammer ist zusammengestellt. Seine Majestät der König, der Senat sowie die Regional- und Gemeinschaftsparlamente became hiervon in Kentnis gesetzt.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-10-54-plenair-ip187x.u25	The next item is the government statement. The next item is the government statement. I call the Prime Minister. The Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-10-54-plenair-ip187x.u26	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of the European Parliament, the world is in full transformation. The number of crises has increased sharply. The conflicts that surround us put our society to the test. They create a sense of fear and doubt about the future and yet the world has been achieving positive results for 30 years. According to the World Bank, poverty rates fall from 44% to 10%. The number of unskilled children has fallen by half in 15 years. One person in two has access to the Internet. In this multipolar world, two attitudes are possible: either fold back on their own and seek confrontation, or openness and cooperation. Without any doubt, we opt for openness and cooperation. We strongly believe in multilateralism. We remain convinced that dialogue is also the best response to crises, but dialogue takes time and sometimes creates frustrations. Dialogue requires above all courage and conviction: the courage to negotiate, the courage to give in without giving up and to convince without overcoming. Convince without defeating. Security must be at the heart of our action. Our commitment within NATO remains the cornerstone of our security and its European pillar must be strengthened and a European defence must become a reality. We have decided in this legislature to stop the savings in the defence sector. The military programme law provides for more than EUR 9 billion of investment to guarantee our country's solidarity and loyalty. This decision is also a recognition for the use of our military. More than 500 soldiers are currently participating in missions, far from their families, in Iraq, Afghanistan, Mali, Jordan, Lithuania and Estonia. Let us give thanks to them, as well as to the men and women who stand every day for our safety in the streets. (Applause from all benches) Ladies and gentlemen, Europe represents a thought and a dream, anchored in values such as mutual respect, peace and freedom. This year we are celebrating the 60th anniversary of the Treaty of Rome. After the generation of the founders Robert Schuman and Paul-Henri Spaak came those of the builders, with Helmut Kohl and François Mitterand. These generations have chosen reconciliation and peace. Today, our responsibility towards the next generation is enormous. We must give a new impetus to the European project, anchor the dream in reality, make Europe more efficient and match the expectations of our citizens more closely. The Brexit brings with it uncertainties. We are Britain's fourth trading partner, so we must safeguard our economic interests. Here I would like to convey a message of optimism. We must move from a Europe of crises to a Europe of solutions, from a Europe of transition to a Europe of action. That is why we urgently need to step up economic and monetary union, a social pillar, a new industrial and digital strategy, or another reform of our migration policy. I want to put our country in the cockpit of the European Union. Ladies and gentlemen, openness to the world is for us of strategic policy. This openness is essential for our trade, our jobs and our social protection. Capitalism worldwide does not automatically provide redistribution and wealth. Trade agreements are therefore essential in order to establish an ethical, social and environmental framework. No regulation that suffocates the initiative, but rules to free up trade and protect consumers and workers. The CETA has now entered into force provisionally, after intensive dialogue with the federated entities, and we welcome this. Ladies and gentlemen, Spain, a member of the European Union, is facing a serious institutional crisis. The Spanish Constitutional Court invalidated the referendum. We call for the urgent opening of a space for political dialogue between the protagonists. We call for de-escalation in favour of a peaceful, negotiated solution consistent with the rule of law, national order and international order. [[Applause on the benches of the majority]] Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is our duty to advance the country, families and businesses. For the past three years, we have been reforming to increase confidence and achieve noticeable results. We're halfway through. Let us try to make an objective assessment, without complacency, and with as much insight as possible. Today, 4.8 million people are employed. This is a particularly high figure. After a stagnation for five years, finally, the employment rate is going up again. It increased from 67.2 per cent to 67.7 per cent. Since 2007, business growth has never been so strong. For a bankruptcy, ten new companies were created. Private investment growth increased from 1.2% in 2016 to 4.6% in 2017. The number of self-employed now exceeds one million. There are more than 1,000 additional new self-employed persons on a monthly basis. Inflation is better controlled and growth is increasing beyond previous forecasts. These results are not the result of chance. Three years ago, we chose to focus on economic and social reforms. Your House voted over 400 legislative reforms, all of which had a common, obsessive point: how can we succeed in further stimulating employment, better guaranteeing solidarity and better defending our security and freedoms? I don't want to hide my face. I also appreciate, like each and every one of you, that our country has fragility. The vacancy rate has doubled in seven years. We are below the OECD average for renewable energy production. We still see it today: despite efforts, expectations in terms of mobility are not met. Fine particles cause thousands of deaths each year in Europe and Belgium. Of course, the risk of poverty is still far too high. Every year, we pay EUR 9 billion for interest charges alone on the debt. These findings, ladies and gentlemen, must lead us to be modest, but they must also encourage us to act and develop a tangible and coherent vision for the future. I would like to take this opportunity to invite you to come together around three projects: prosperity, social cohesion and freedoms. I also want to invite you to mobilize us for an ambition for the future, to invest in the future. Ladies and gentlemen, the first project, of course, is prosperity. Stimulating employment means improving our competitiveness. According to the National Bank, in two years we have removed our accumulated wage handicap since 1996. The substantial reform of the 1996 law, which was passed at the beginning of the year, makes it possible to consolidate this acquis for competitiveness on a sustainable basis. I want to be concrete: in two years, this represents a gain of +3.2% of competitiveness. For an average SME of nine employees, this represents an additional 17,000 euros over a year. These are additional means of investing, developing jobs, promoting growth. Stimulating employment is a guarantee of emancipation. The reduction in employer contributions from 33 to 25 per cent is a strong signal. In 2016, we adopted the zero contribution measure to boost job creation. A year later, there were results: almost 17,000 independents decided to take the step of a first job. Our decisions can stimulate employment, and we show it. We have also chosen to make the labour market more modern and agile, thanks to flexi-jobs in the Horeca: 28,000 workers who already have a 4/5th time are better paid if they choose to work more. We're going further. We have decided to extend flexi-jobs to retail trade and pensioners. With us, work is better paid. [[Applause on the benches of the majority]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-10-54-plenair-ip187x.u27	Ladies and gentlemen, no one here can dispute the results in terms of job creation. National Bank, Plan Bureau, Institute of National Accounts, IMF, OECD, all confirm the extent of the progress made: 130,000 jobs in three years. Some argue that these are precarious jobs. That's not true! Partial employment has not increased. According to ONSS, it was largely full-time and private sector jobs that led to this result. Between the end of 2015 and the end of 2016, the number of full-time jobs increased by 60,000. On the other hand, flexi-jobs have no effect on these figures. Indeed, they are not counted as new jobs. Jobs! Jobs! Jobs! It's a reality day after day! [[Applause on the benches of the majority]] We want to extend and intensify this momentum. That is why we want to anchor the labour market in the 21st century. And we know that beyond remuneration, skills development and freedom of work organisation are essential. We encourage ongoing training. Three out of four employers have provided a training budget for their workers. The reform of overtime, part-time work, night work or Sunday work are all major decisions that have a dynamic impact on employment. Finally, the establishment of student-entrepreneur status shows the confidence and hope that we place in our young people. We also choose to better reconcile work and private life, in the interests of families and businesses. We want, for example, to promote telework. We know that with 10% fewer vehicles, traffic congestion would be reduced by 40%. Ladies and gentlemen, not everything is solved. Social dumping causes thousands of jobs to be lost, especially in the construction and transport sectors. That is why we have reformed the rules on public procurement. In addition to the overall reduction in the cost of labour in the construction sector, we will reduce labour costs by EUR 600 million by 2020. At European level, we are fighting for a reform of the Posting of Workers Directive. Our ambition is to reach a European decision by the end of this year. In practice, the abolition of the pilot period has proved to be a brake on recruitment. The social partners have not been able to reach an agreement on this, so the government has taken the decision. Prosperity means better supporting purchasing power through more net wages for the employee and less burdens for the employer. The unemployment trap is a problem that has been dragging on for years. The difference between unemployment benefit and the lowest wages was too small. That is why we have decided to increase the net wage so that people also earn more when they work. We are fully implementing the tax shift and it is mainly aimed at low and medium wages. In concrete terms, starting from a gross wage of EUR 1 500 per month, the net wage increased by EUR 83 net per month via the tax shift, by EUR 28 net per month through the IPA and by EUR 15 per month through the indexation mechanism. That is an increase of EUR 126 net per month or just over EUR 1 500 net per year. On an average wage of 3,400 euros gross per month, the net wage increases by 1,902 euros per year, the equivalent of a thirteenth month for low and medium wages! It's social justice! That's real justice! [[Applause on the benches of the majority]] We want to do more. We ensure that someone can earn up to 500 euros net. More specifically, it concerns volunteering and services of private individuals. When a company makes a profit, employees will be able to share in profits. That too is justice. Fiscal justice is a challenge facing every government in Europe. How can it be ensured that the burden is balanced? How can it be ensured that the strongest shoulders bear the toughest burdens without compromising the job engine and the economy? That's a permanent exercise. In recent years, we have always aligned our policies with this ambition. Since the start of the government, we have introduced and tightened the Cayman tax. We have strengthened the tax on stock exchange transactions and increased the withholding tax. Now we introduce a tax on securities accounts of 0.15 % for those who have a capital that exceeds the amount of 500 000 euros. In the fight against tax fraud, we have confirmed and strengthened all the measures taken in the past. The result is a yield of 255 million euros, the highest amount ever recorded! It remains our priority to reduce pressure at work. Since the beginning of the legislature, we have reduced the tax and parafiscal pressure on labour by EUR 5.9 billion. Working with our policies pays off. [[Applause on the benches of the majority]] Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, there is a lot of talk about it, but few countries are doing it, in particular: attracting as many investors as possible and feeding job creation. The reform of corporate taxation was not in the coalition agreement, but we did not want to miss this opportunity either. The simplification of our system is ambitious and courageous and will attract new businesses. We have focused our reforms specifically on SMEs so that they can boost our economy. The reduced rate for SMEs will be 20% from next year. For the other companies, the nominal rate will fall to 25% by 2020. This is a budgetary neutral reform and the investment deduction is temporary from 8% to 20% for SMEs and the self-employed. Tax consolidation will be introduced from 2020. We want to activate savings and investment in the real economy. The tax shelter is extended to growth companies and a new exemption threshold is introduced for dividends. Ladies and gentlemen, the Planning Bureau will provide 200 000 additional jobs by 2020. This trend will bring unemployment rates to the lowest level for 40 years. The mismatch between more than 120 000 vacancies and many tens of thousands of jobseekers is the next challenge. We reach out to the Regions to pool our efforts, especially in the field of training and job creation. Public service must be made more flexible, productive and attractive. Together with the trade unions, we have decided to hold constructive consultations on the statute. The intention is to make choices before the end of the year. Ladies and gentlemen, the second task is social cohesion. The financing of solidarity is under pressure. Increasing life expectancy and its impact on the future of pensions or health care are major challenges for our generation. We are of course convinced that job creation is the best, the most sustainable, key to financing solidarity. Since 2014, the cost of unemployment has fallen by 1.5 billion euros. This is all the resources we can allocate to pensions, health or economic recovery. Better control of the increase in expenditure is necessary, and we reject the vicious spiral which, in the long run, would seriously threaten solidarity. Our conviction is that the main threat to social security would be to do nothing. In 2014, health spending was $22 billion; in 2018, authorized spending will be in the order of $25 billion, an increase of $3 billion in four years. One in three people face psychological problems at some point in their lives. Some may remain for many years without the necessary care. As a result, we decided to partially reimburse consultations with a clinician psychologist. The reintegration of workers with disabilities will be facilitated and encouraged. In this context, we want to make the various actors more accountable. We also want to optimize hospital funding. Through networking, we will be able to better adapt care to real needs. The means must be deployed where necessary and we will take into account the objective criteria scientifically founded to achieve the programming of the provision of hospital care. In addition, we want to promote access to care, encourage the use of the cheapest drugs and better access to innovative therapies to combat hepatitis C, cancer or HIV. Ladies and gentlemen, the health care system in our country is one of the best in the world. According to a recent index, he is in fourth place in Europe. This is the best result since the launch in 2005 of this index. We owe these results, first and foremost, to women and men who accompany patients on a daily basis in the happiest moments as well as in particularly difficult times. I want to pay tribute to their dedication at every stage of life. We want to improve their working conditions. That is why we have freed up the necessary resources in the negotiations with the non-market sector. Ladies and gentlemen, the allocation of INAMI numbers has been a sensitive and complex subject for many years. We offer a durable solution for planning the medical supply. Of course, arbitrations are difficult, but this year all students who have completed their studies received an INAMI number. For the future, we have suggested a structural system, which will be discussed very soon in committee. Ladies and gentlemen, in 2016, the annual cost of paying retirement pensions was EUR 42.6 billion. Expenditure for this purpose has increased fourfold since 1985. Reforms in this area are not only aimed at ensuring the financial viability of the system. We also want – it is a matter of coherence – a fairer and more transparent mechanism. There are two objectives: the gradual harmonisation of different schemes and a closer link between work and the amount of pension. Like others before us, we changed the legal retirement age, with an effect in 2025 and 2030. In order to control the cost of ageing, we have taken on our responsibilities by gradually raising the average age to get out of the labour market. Pensioners who wish to do so may now pursue an activity after reaching the age of 65 or after having completed 45 years of career, without restriction of income. Periods of work must be better valued than periods of inactivity. In addition, we have decided to launch a consultation with the Regions in order to stimulate the return to employment of older unemployed people. We have also taken steps to strengthen the purchasing power of pensioners. They concern a significant increase in minimum pensions. This is a purchase power gain of up to a bonus of 89 euros per month for employees. In addition, 70 per cent of the beneficiaries of the scheme are women. For self-employed workers, the increase is EUR 151 per month. Finally, their minimum pension is now aligned with that of salaried workers. As of January 2018, the minimum pensions for a full career will be increased again and now all workers can buy back their years of education in order to increase their future pension. Not only do we want to consolidate the first pillar, but we also want to generalize access to the second pillar for all workers. This concerns more than 500,000 workers. We therefore want to put an end to discrimination. We also want to continue, of course, the complex work in order to define objective criteria of penitibility. Ladies and gentlemen, the future of pensions is a serious issue. Our strategy is consistent: we encourage longer careers, we strengthen the link with work, we improve minimum pensions. For the future of pensions, we also intend to fully assume our duty. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, working conditions are changing, with new opportunities, to better combine work and family life, but also, admittedly, with new constraints, such as permanent connection or increased competition. We want to take on board the improvement of well-being at work and the prevention of burn outs. The fight against poverty must mobilize all of us. The government agreement sets out the objective of gradually reaching poverty lines at European level. Social integration income has been increased five times since the establishment of this government. The previous government has certainly made efforts – the increase was 62 euros for a dependent family – but we are doing almost twice as much with 100 euros more for a dependent family. The increase is 75 euros per month for a single person and 50 euros for a cohabitant. We will continue to upgrade social protection benefits: an additional and cumulative amount of 590 million has been released for this purpose. The CPAS budget has been re-aligned three times for a total of €92 million. Finally, let us not forget single-parent families, for example through tax deductions for childcare expenses. We're also going – I'm very proud of it! – gradually implement automatic recognition of social rights. This is a major step forward for those who really need it. At the same time, we want to strengthen efforts to better support the homeless. We were shocked by the serious drifts in this area. The conclusions of the federal audit on Samusocial will be fully implemented. The third yard concerns effective freedoms. The safety of our citizens is our first task. Terrorism has hit our country in the heart. We have therefore taken a series of preventive and repressive measures to counter the threat. Look at the Channel Plan or the duration of the administrative arrest. Here too, the results are palpable. Since 2015, 295 people have been convicted of terrorist offences. Both Parliament and the government have learned a great deal from the victims of the attacks. We will continue to follow them closely. Our services have done a good job, but in the individual follow-up of each victim we have sometimes failed, and we must acknowledge that. No compensation can compensate for the loss of lives, but the solidarity law for the victims must help many. We are also following carefully the proposals of the Committee of Inquiry. We have approved a plan so that the police can focus on its essential tasks. More than 1 000 full-time federal agents have been added, including to strengthen border control and implement the Channel Plan. We were also confronted with new forms of crime on the Internet and in the digital world. Those attacks and hackings are a new threat. That's why we also strengthen cybersecurity month after month. Ladies and gentlemen, the coalition agreement gives absolute priority to the modernisation of justice. Since then, a huge step has been taken: 113 legal texts have been adopted. We have adapted inheritance law and accelerated the digitisation of justice. Judicial proceedings have been simplified and criminal execution has been made more balanced. The results make themselves felt. The legal backlog is finally beginning to decrease. We want justice to be accessible to everyone. That's why we're working on legal aid insurance. Various measures have also been implemented concerning the execution of the sentence, the security period and the reduction of the overpopulation in prisons. At Justice, the government is catching up. Look at the reform of criminal law and the modernisation of economic law. We will continue to reform and invest in this. Ladies and gentlemen, we have a human but strong migration policy. Since the beginning of the migration crisis, we have protected more than 35 000 refugees. The number of humanitarian visas issued has increased in three years. These figures put Belgium in the top ten of the European countries. We are fulfilling our international obligations. We have no lessons to learn from that. In two years' time, Belgium will have resettled 1 100 people and relocated 1 500 people from Italy and Greece. Belgium remains therefore a country that receives refugees. But abuse is no longer tolerated. Last year, almost 1,600 illegal criminals were sent back. That number has more than doubled in two years. We are united and we are just. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, we have an ambition that transcends these three strategic areas of prosperity, social cohesion and freedoms: investing. Investing to prepare for the future. Projects require that we deploy our energy in the medium and long term. Putting our finances in order is an ongoing effort. In three years, debt has increased from 106.7 per cent to 104.3 per cent of GDP. For entity 1, between 2014 and the end of 2018, the structural deficit will improve from -2.2 to -0.68% of GDP. This corresponds to more than EUR 14 billion of structural consolidation measures. However, we made a clear choice. We are not going to sacrifice the economic recovery on the altar of fiscal consolidation, because our conviction is that the most sustainable, stable, solidest consolidation is economic recovery and job creation. We want to manage public finances as a good father. We will, together with experts, analyse the state's participations and adopt a more dynamic management of the assets. In this context, strategic, economic and social criteria will be taken into account. With regard to ARCO, within the framework of the Belfius IPO, we are implementing a regulation on the compensation of co-operative natural persons. Contacts with the European Commission are under way on this subject. Ladies and gentlemen, the investment pact is now. With this pact, we want to transcend partisan logics and electoral deadlines. We want to mobilise EUR 60 billion to stimulate public and private investment. Starting in 2018, we will launch concrete projects to better support the energy transition, to promote the digital agenda or to boost mobility. We are pleased that some opposition parties have expressed their critical support for this pact. We will be actively listening. The Regions also have a central role to play. Together with the Ministers-Presidents, we intend to speed up the work in this context. Ladies and gentlemen, global warming is no longer a shadow of doubt. Natural disruptions lead to human tragedies, conflict, and increased migratory pressures. There's an emergency. More than ever, the Paris Agreement must be confirmed and implemented. Our country must loyally assume its share in this, and the conclusion of the agreements on burden sharing is in the right direction. We need to go further. We must conclude the energy pact to ensure an energy transition that combines security of supply, innovation and a predictable financial framework. In the same spirit, the development of sustainable, more effective mobility is necessary. There is an urgent need for clarity on the state of infrastructure and the conditions for its maintenance. Everyone, of course, has their responsibility. The Strategic Investment Pact must be the catalyst for a tenfold ambition for mobility across the country. It is a matter of quality of life, competitiveness and credibility. I will convene an exceptional consultation committee on mobility very soon. The Multi-year Rail Investment Plan will be presented to the Regions on November 20, 2017. This plan should make possible regional co-financing. Access to the port of Antwerp and Charleroi airport in particular will need to be improved. The priority is service to commuters, safety, cleanliness and punctuality. The time of the sumptuous stations is over. [[Applause on the benches of the majority]] Ladies and gentlemen, we no longer accept that students or workers are taken hostage in the event of a strike and we will realize our commitment to minimum service. [[Applause fed on the benches of the majority]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-10-54-plenair-ip187x.u28	Technology offers the tools of the future to facilitate mobility, a greener, more shared, more connected mobility. This is the meaning of the smart mobility project with public and private actors. The digital revolution is in progress. It transforms society as a whole. Digital Belgium is a growth engine and will be supported. As we know in the future, nine out of ten jobs will require digital skills, and it is with this in mind that the Digital Skills Fund and BeCentral have been set up. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we use a clear working method for the yards: first listen, then decide. The social partners and the government must always engage in dialogue to ensure prosperity in a sustainable way, but if the consultation with the social partners is not successful, then it is up to the government to change its mind. Our democratic debate is often profound and fascinating, but also caricature and hurtful. Blame ad hominem have become the new normal. The comparisons made too often with Nazism or genocide are bad for the credibility of democracy. It is everyone's responsibility to keep our debates dignified. Of course, we may differ, but let us look beyond insults, lies or disinformation. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to thank everyone who went to work today. A union has decided today to strike. Is today's strike relevant? Did they stop for more purchasing power and more jobs? Why are they on strike? They just stopped to attack the government? The people who cannot go to work today have no message about it. We remain committed to social dialogue, but we will always defend the right to work. Ladies and gentlemen, there are more jobs. There is more security and more solidarity. However, we still have a lot of work ahead of us. I realise that citizens' expectations are high. Our reforms and their benefits must be made clear to everyone. We stand for our fourth year of policy, a pivotal moment. There will be elections next year, but we have 18 months before the end of this legislature. My conviction is clear: people expect only one thing from us, namely: to govern, to govern and to govern again. We will continue to drive until the last day, until the last minute. The reform engine must not stop. That is why we will continue to work on strengthening our social model, without mirage, and with realizations. Ladies and gentlemen, in recent months, the behaviour of a few has seriously damaged confidence in our democratic processes. We have a duty, majority and opposition, to win back the reason and heart of our fellow citizens, in the service of democracy and the rule of law. We have to keep our heads cold. Democracy is an imperfect work, on the perpetual path of completion. It is also the strongest bulwark for freedoms and mutual respect. Democracy is – and history has always shown – the most fertile soil for prosperity and the improvement of living conditions. Global developments are, of course, opening up huge projects: successful technological transition, defeating terrorism, meeting the challenge of climate change and migration. But our responsibility, the majority and the opposition, is to grasp these changes and turn them into opportunities to strengthen a more shared dynamic of progress. All of us here feel the anxiety and doubts of many citizens for the future. It would be so simple not to change anything, not to move, to bow to the status quo. We reject this resignation, which, in our view, is synonymous with regression. We are defending a democracy of results, not a democracy of slogans: reform for more jobs, more social protection, more well-being, more freedoms. We will step up our efforts and continue to act by multiplying our forces. That is why I ask you, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, to give your confidence to the government. I therefore ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to give the government your confidence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-10-54-plenair-ip187x.u29	Ladies and gentlemen, the Prime Minister has given me a motion of confidence. It reads as follows: 'The government demands the confidence of the Chamber'. We can vote on it at 3:12 p.m. at the earliest next Thursday. Colleagues, the Prime Minister has just given me a motion of confidence, which reads: "The government is asking for the confidence of the House." We can only vote on this motion at the earliest next Thursday at 3.12 p.m. The meeting is adjourned. Next sitting Wednesday, October 11, 2017 at 10.00 hours. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Wednesday 11 October 2017 at 10 a.m.
