ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-12-54-plenair-ip152x.u1	The meeting is open. The meeting was opened.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-12-54-plenair-ip152x.u2	We must proceed with the admission and swearing-in of the successor who is eligible to replace Mr Johan Vande Lanotte, who resigned on 10 January 2017. We must accept and take the oath of office of the alternate appointed to replace Mr Johan Vande Lanotte, who resigned on 10 January 2017. The successor who will replace him is Mrs Annick Lambrecht, first successor to the West Flanders constituency. The alternate is Ms. Annick Lambrecht, the first alternate in the electoral district of West Flanders. Mrs Annick Lambrecht's credentials were declared valid at our meeting on 19 June 2014. Mrs. Annick Lambrecht's credentials were validated in our meeting on 19 June 2014. Since the additional examination provided for in Article 235 of the Code of Choice refers exclusively to the maintenance of the eligibility requirements, in the light of the documents obtained, it is a mere formality in the present circumstances. Since the supplementary verification, provided for in article 235 of the Electoral Code, relates only to the preservation of the conditions of eligibility, it appears that this verification, in the light of the documents obtained, has only a character of purely formality. I therefore propose that this Member be admitted. I therefore propose that you proceed to the admission of this member. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. I recall the words of the oath: "I swear to comply with the Constitution" "Your judge d'observer la Constitution" "Ich schwöre die Verfassung zu befolgen." I recall the terms of the oath: "I swear to observe the Constitution" "Ik zweer de Grondwet na te leven" "Ich schwöre die Verfassung zu befolgen '. I would ask Mrs Annick Lambrecht to take the constitutional oath. I ask Mrs Annick Lambrecht to take the constitutional oath.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-12-54-plenair-ip152x.u3	Mrs Annick Lambrecht will be part of the Dutch language group. Mrs Annick Lambrecht will be a member of the Dutch language group.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-12-54-plenair-ip152x.u4	Mr President, thank you for your good wishes and congratulations to the newcomer. I just wanted to point out that we are here, with one of the major groups in this House, with a female majority. It's so rare that I wanted to highlight it! [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-12-54-plenair-ip152x.u5	Mr President, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, an agreement between the social partners on wages, on the quality of employment, on pre-pensions, on increases in allowances for pensioners, persons with disabilities or unemployed persons, an agreement on the fight against poverty, I would say it is unexpected. I therefore come directly to my question. Will the government fully support this agreement, as the social partners ask? In any case, this agreement shows that, when we trust social consultation, the business-union dialogue, there are results. Of course, at a time when the wages of the big bosses are increasing, are exploding and corporate dividends are constantly increasing at the expense of employment – as we have seen at Caterpillar – some will say that having just over 1% is little. And those who say this, I understand them; they are right. But I would tell you that at a time when the government continues to weaken the country with your plan to definance social security or your projects on employment flexibility to the detriment of workers' well-being, I believe that all the positive news is good to take and that "one of yours is better than two you won't get it". This agreement also shows the social responsibility of both employers' organizations and trade unions, which are so often criticized by part of this assembly. Today, it is these actors that I want to support because we need, not the confrontation that you are constantly organising, but the cohesion that they have just offered us. So my message is to say to you, "Support them!" And to them: "Bravo!"
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-12-54-plenair-ip152x.u6	Mr President, Mr Vice-President of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen, I too would like to congratulate the new Member of the European Parliament. On balance, of course, I wish the remaining male members of the Socialist Group much strength, but that will work. Mr President, I note that the representatives of the PTB are not present today. However, this is an important moment in social history. At a time when agreements are being made which point out that the social partners can accept their responsibilities, these representatives of the people send their cats to Parliament. I do not know whether a symbolic meaning should be attached to it. Mr Deputy Prime Minister, just before midnight last night, I heard from the media that the social partners had reached an agreement. This means that wages will be able to increase by up to 1.1 % on top of the indexing of 2.9 %. This means that there is a margin of around 4 %. Ladies and gentlemen, we all know that we come from a period of sustained wage moderation. I'd like to remind you of that. This wage moderation has not been achieved since Mr Michel's team joined. There was also a competition pact during the previous legislature, based on the principle of a wage freeze. We took action at that time. I also refer to the reduction of VAT on electricity, which has enabled wages to be further moderated and controlled. Colleagues, these measures were needed because our companies were struggling with a wage handicap of around 16%. You know the vicious circle in which the business world ends up. Companies get tough, can no longer compete and go on the bottle, resulting in job losses. This is creating a downward spiral for our economy. I am pleased to note that the new wage agreement will not jeopardise the competitiveness of companies. Wages will continue to rise more slowly than in the neighbouring countries. This is necessary as long as there is still an absolute wage handicap which must be further reduced over the coming months and years. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, the government's relay policy is working. Companies are competitive again and create jobs. I would remind you that over a hundred thousand jobs have been added in the past period. Companies that grow can also pay higher wages. This is therefore good for companies and for employees, who will earn up to 4% more. This increase in purchasing power will give oxygen to the economy. This agreement is also a good thing for the social partners themselves. They've taken their responsibilities. If the social partners can show that they are taking responsibility, I would call on the opposition to accept its political responsibility at some point by supporting this government's policy, but I will not push it too far today. On a day like today one has to moderate a bit. Mr Vice Prime Minister, my question is also Mrs Onkelinx's question. What will the government do now? There is an agreement with the social partners. That's a whole. Will you approve parts of it and leave others in question? I think it is important that, as soon as the agreement comes forward, the government takes on its political responsibility as soon as possible and makes clear its political intentions regarding this social pact.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-12-54-plenair-ip152x.u7	Mr President, Mr Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we must first be able to welcome this agreement and to welcome the great sense of responsibility of the social partners. If I say so, in my opinion, this night's agreement is a strong demonstration of how wrong the government is when it wants to take over issues such as, for example, the reform of the financing of social security or the reform of the 1996 law, while the social partners know how to reach agreements. Here we see that the social partners are in a position to reach a balanced agreement, in favour of both the purchasing power and the competitiveness of enterprises. It's important. Beyond the margin, this agreement contains qualitative aspects: ways of working for the future (on burn out), but also on the digital evolution of our economy. There is also a qualitative aspect that concerns the victims of collective redundancies in 2016 – I am thinking for example of Caterpillar or ING. This agreement allows them to benefit from a pre-pension scheme, now called unemployment with an additional business, which is maintained at the age of 55. This is important for all those who have been subjected to brutal dismissal as a result of relocations. Deputy Prime Minister, last night, I also saw on Twitter that a partner of your majority had already wiped out this agreement, accusing the social partners of sending the bill back to the state. Ladies and gentlemen of the N-VA, I know how much you hate the social partners! I know how much you want a policy of statehood, not co-management with the social partners! On the other hand, let me tell you that this money is not government money. It is first and foremost people's money, which is actually managed by the government. Deputy Prime Minister, will you implement and validate this agreement? Or are you going to follow the lead of your government partner, the N-VA? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-12-54-plenair-ip152x.u8	Mr President, Mr Vice-President of the Commission, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, our group is today calling for the added value of social dialogue and dialogue. We are therefore pleased that this agreement exists. It is proof, ladies and gentlemen, that social dialogue is working. That is the basis for social peace, which is the basis for entrepreneurial investment, which is the basis for workers to retain their jobs or find one. It is mainly a breeding ground, so that people can regain confidence in the future. The Socialist colleagues will not say it to the detriment of me, and it is not often that I quote Rudy De Leeuw, but he said: 'This agreement offers perspective'. If we look at the wage margin for the next two years, I can only see that the government's policy of reducing labour costs is paying off. That's good for those who don't have a job, because jobs are created, and that's good for those who do have a job, because they're gonna make more money. It's about the net pay and not about all kinds of checks. As far as the welfare envelope is concerned, I said during the State of the Union that the previous government was making very commendable efforts and that the current government would do more. The government specifically asked to focus on the most vulnerable. The social partners are doing so, and our group is very pleased that something extra is happening for single people with dependent children. The bridge pension is a sensitive issue, ladies and gentlemen. The government has created a legal framework in which the social partners could deviate from the entanglements we had foreseen. And the social partners apply it. They increase the bridge retirement age, but a little slower. That may not be an ideal solution and I hope that, with the future jobs, it will not even be necessary to apply them, because there are no restructurings needed, but in some circumstances it is not the ideal solution, but it is a socially acceptable one. I congratulate the social partners on this agreement and thank them for defending it this morning. I encourage them to continue to do so, so that the agreement can be approved by their supporters and implemented through sectoral agreements. I have another question for you, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, and for the government. The coalition agreement contains a few prior commitments. One of these commitments is, I quote: "Social dialogue must be seen as a matter of urgency." It is true, Mr Prime Minister, that our group is calling for the coalition agreement to be implemented and for this social dialogue to be fully respected.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-12-54-plenair-ip152x.u9	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Vice-President, this government has certainly not made it easy to conclude social agreements over the last two years. By repeatedly making savings to ordinary people, to people who are having a hard time, to people who are working, they have actually ordered one protest after another. Yet this week you want an important draft that wants people to work harder for less wages, to hunt through Parliament. This design will also block people's wages. Nevertheless, ladies and gentlemen, and this deserves respect, the social partners have managed to reach an interprofessional agreement in this difficult context. I welcome the fact that political parties who have very often denounced the bankruptcy of the social dialogue in this hemisphere are being flagged back today. I welcome the fact that employers and workers today say that competitiveness and purchasing power need not be contradictory but can be reconciled. I'm glad the VBO and the ACV are saying together today that those who are hard at work in this country deserve some raise. It will be necessary with all those invoices! I am glad that UNIZO and the ABVV say today that single parents with dependent children deserve more attention and a push in the back. So I think you can only do one thing, Mr Peeters, and that is to say clearly to the social partners today that you support them and that you will approve the agreement. You can't be the arsonist again today. You have to be the fireman today. The social partners have reached a number of agreements, but they have also presented a number of issues to you, to us, to Parliament, and to the government. I am thinking, for example, of the digital agenda, of mobility, of competitiveness, of burn-out, of youth unemployment, of people of my generation looking for a job. We need to turn this negotiating agenda into an agenda for action. What will you do with that? A national investment plan is planned. Let us write this plan together. Let us take the outstretched hand. First, however, I would like to clarify the attitude of this government towards the IPA that has been achieved.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-12-54-plenair-ip152x.u10	Mr President, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, for months we have heard in the street, in the Committee on Social Affairs, and sometimes here too, that social consultation has died in Belgium, and that the government does not respect the social partners; these are very hard words. It is therefore gratifying that such an agreement has been reached unanimously by the Group of Ten. It hasn't happened in more than ten years. I think everyone has to say hello to him. In our view, this agreement has a good balance. It allows us to continue to restore the competitiveness of our businesses. We know that this is the way to create jobs, and it will also help to safeguard our social security. But it also guarantees the purchasing power of the most active workers in our country. We are particularly pleased that it also takes into account the future reform of the 1996 Act. It saves the indexation of wages. It takes into account a range of pre-pension and wellness objectives, and I would dare say that it anticipates the accountability that the government is considering in this area. So, Minister, I have four questions for you. Will the government approve the interprofessional agreement? Will this agreement have unforeseen budgetary consequences? Can you provide details on the timing of pre-pensions and the wellness envelope? Finally, how will things be done, given the revision of the 1996 Act and the interprofessional agreement?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-12-54-plenair-ip152x.u11	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we are particularly pleased that the social partners reached an interprofessional agreement yesterday. This will make it possible to increase wages in the private sector by 1.1 %. The lowest pensions and replacement income can also rise by 1%. The agreement also provides for a fight against burn-outs and a reorientation of the mobility budget for workers. So I am a very satisfied Member of Parliament, Minister. I also hope that, after final approval by the trade unions and workers, the entire government will implement the content of the agreement reached. Even though you have imposed very difficult and strict contours on the social partners, the negotiators have managed to reach a balanced and realistic agreement. That wasn't easy. They got out together, employers and employees, Minister. What can we conclude from that? From this we can conclude that the social model works in our country and that they do what the government cannot do. Sie buy tie. That is what I conclude from this. Mr Minister, some of my fellow Members from the majority are so keen to break down that model and level it down. However, the social partners have not been intimidated. They are now achieving results and are working very creatively with the limited resources. Part of the welfare envelope will be used for the benefits of persons with disabilities, to bring them back to the level of living wage. That's something the government left behind. The social partners are still correcting the blunders of government policy, particularly in the area of pensions. The social minimums for workers with incomplete careers will be increased, which will be particularly beneficial for women's pensions. Minister, I am very pleased, but I do have one question. Will the government fully honour the agreement? Or are you planning on working on this again?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-12-54-plenair-ip152x.u12	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, nothing is as it seems: it seems to be the policy of this government, which once again makes it possible to conclude social agreements. Apparently everyone's happy today. It even brings Mr Dewael to the dream that the opposition could be brought to reasonableness. I believe, however, that this expectation will probably not be fulfilled. At certain points in its policy, the government had to make the difficult choice between what we might call the in- and out-group. Anyone who has a job must, of course, be consulted at some point with all the others responsible to ensure that as many people as possible can join their group and that as many supporters of the out group can join those who have a job. That policy has paid off. We've had tens of thousands of jobs created. Let us be honest: politics does not create jobs; we open up the opportunity to create jobs. After the efforts we have made to do so, we finally have the opportunity to let the people who are in that structure, who have a job, enjoy the economic revival, with all the positive consequences that this will have, with a net increase in wages above inflation rates. Of course, we approve of that. It shows that this government, through its policy, offers the opportunity to move forward together. We are also very pleased that the philosophy of the agreement is fully in line with the remembrance of the 1996 law. This means that we do not let the movement that consists in entering the pay gap with abroad be affected, and that at the same time there is the possibility of offering a net wage increase. We congratulate the social partners on this, because in my group's view, social dialogue is always an added value from the moment when they can reach an agreement themselves. We like to leave them that space, but this remains the responsibility of politics. I have recently heard a great deal of opposition colleagues expressing a great deal of concern about the budgetary balance in this country before the recess. I assume that they will also respect that any agreement, including this agreement, is considered against that background. I would have asked this question to the Prime Minister, but you will answer in his name. Will we also look at the budgetary impact of the agreement in question and ensure that we can incorporate that positive agreement between employers and employees into the general government policy?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-12-54-plenair-ip152x.u13	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the government has just met the social partners and has been given a text and explanation, in general terms, of the content of the agreement. The four pieces of the agreement are very clear. It concerns the wage standard, the welfare envelope, the extension of existing agreements and, finally, a number of important issues which the social partners themselves want to address. It is true that this has also been underlined by the social partners and that there has been a balance between purchasing power and competition, that there has been absolute need for legal stability, both for workers and for businesses, and that there is a clear vision of a number of very important issues such as burn-out and digitisation, with strict timing. The agreement also provides social peace and social stability in the private sector with many businesses and sectors. The reaction of the government is very clear: the agreement, which everyone supports as a very good one, is a very positive development. I understood that all of us, the majority as opposed, were very positive about this agreement reached by the Group of Ten. I think that's right and proper. That was not obvious, by the way. At the same time, I would point out that the Group of Ten, when it came to the wage standard, negotiated on the basis of the draft law which is now being discussed in committee. Those who blame us for not respecting the social partners, I would like to point out that the social partners have negotiated the 1.1 percent on the basis of the law which has not yet been adopted and which I hope will be adopted as soon as possible. In addition, the Group of Ten has also understood the contents of the bill on work that is feasible and manageable. Once again, we are not accused of disrespecting the social partners, but then the Group of Ten has a great deal of respect, since it negotiates on the basis of a legal framework that has not yet been knocked off in Parliament, for which I congratulate them. I understand very well that questions are being asked here. Well, I say to you that the government is very positive. We agreed that the social partners would consult their supporters by the end of this month in order to approve the agreement they have concluded. Those supporters and negotiators are asking for clarification from the government on a number of very important points contained in the agreement. We have just agreed that the expertise of the social partners can be used to explain a number of issues. After this explanation and before consulting the grassroots, the government will clarify all these issues for the social partners. I can already tell you that nobody in the government does not consider the agreement to be positive and that we are all very positive, because it creates a new climate, in which other measures are also possible. If the government, in particular certain fellow ministers, has to take initiatives to amend the legislation on the basis of the agreement, we will come back here. I hope that the agreement will be finally approved, not only by the Group of Ten, but also by the Government, after the government, together with the Group of Ten, has technically clarified the matter and made it clear very quickly.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-12-54-plenair-ip152x.u14	Mr President, I am not going to go into the details. The social partners have discussed on the basis of a possible wage margin, which has been determined by the Central Economic Council, and it is, of course, within this framework that they have negotiated and of course not on the details of the new law reform of the 1996 law that you are proposing. Whatever! That's not what I want to talk about now. A great daily newspaper in our country has conducted an investigation, which is still ongoing, and whose results reveal day after day that, unfortunately, this country has the blues. He's got the blues, Mr. Van Quickenborne! You may never have it, but many of this country's citizens don't feel well. There is, of course, fear due to the international situation, attacks and uncontrolled globalisation, but it is also true that, for some time, workers have not been spared, whether through index jumps or consumer taxes. For them, fear also nests there, that is, on purchasing power. In the Social Affairs Committee, three projects are under consideration. They're not good! Not good for our society and its social security, not good for the quality of the job! And since we do have an agreement that is welcomed all - and that is a good thing - not respecting it would be a terrible blow for the social partners and for the citizens as a whole. It is to you, Minister, since you have this responsibility in your responsibilities, that I want to address. Like everyone else, you have qualities and weaknesses. Among your flaws, let us note that you are, alas, not a left-wing man! Too bad! But we know, despite everything, that from time to time you intervene in this idyllic, paradisiacal atmosphere of the government to prevent the violence of liberal politics from reaching its point of view. We know that! But if you fail to convince on the full realization of the agreement that is presented, there would be a terrible social reaction – I really think so – but in addition, you know, especially on this issue, you are playing your credibility. So, Deputy Prime Minister, at work!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-12-54-plenair-ip152x.u15	Mr President, Mr Deputy Prime Minister, Mr Nívous níêtes pas un homme de gauche. Those words must have sounded like a compliment to you. Nevertheless, I would like to warn Mrs Onkelinx. The legislature is not over yet. What isn't can still come. All crazy on a stick. Firstly, the social dialogue is not dead. It is important that partners can make these agreements within the assigned area. That was a long time ago in the end. The fact that they lead to an increase in purchasing power is a very good thing, and I repeat it for our economy. They're fuel for our economy. Add to that the tax shift and the consequences of the tax shift from the beginning of next year there is a doubling of the tax shift and I believe that they are an excellent thing for the workers in our country. Secondly, Mr Deputy Prime Minister, there is another element, in particular the primacy of politics that will have to continue to play in this area, namely the reforms. Those reforms are our responsibility. It is the government's responsibility to work with Parliament to ensure that reforms continue to be implemented that will ensure that the labour market is flexible and that it is activated. After all, wage increases are of course good for those who work. I care about those who don't work. They should be able to be offered an appropriate position within the shortest possible time. Creating jobs requires reforms. So we must not rest on our laurels. There is now a social agreement. We look forward with interest to what the government will do with this. At the same time, however, I appeal to all of us and to the politicians to keep the reform train that has started running. There are some important drafts on the Social Affairs Committee. Let us approve these proposals so that we can work with a more modern economy, which will lead to an increase in the level of activity in our country, which will eventually be good news for the budget too.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-12-54-plenair-ip152x.u16	Mr President, Mr Deputy Prime Minister, thank you for your answers. You have made clear points, but I would remind you that it cannot be said that the government has helped, because through the reform of social security financing and the 1996 reform of the law, you have told the social partners that you want to lock them up and limit their capacity for co-management by making all these fundamental aspects very clear. The agreement is there and I can only encourage you to validate it in full, so also the qualitative aspect. The 55-year-old pre-pension will have to be validated for people who have been the victims of collective redundancies, such as Caterpillar or ING. The component will have to be validated for single parents with dependent families. We will have to let the social partners work on the burn-out and digital transformation aspects of our economy, which will be fundamental issues for us. I am confident that as Minister for Employment, you will commit yourself to fully support this agreement. I therefore invite you not to give in to a partner of your government who, from this night, on Twitter, wanted to make his market and sweep away the 55-year-old pre-pension for those who were the victims of a collective dismissal in 2016. Deputy Prime Minister, stand by and you will have our support!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-12-54-plenair-ip152x.u17	Thank you, Mr Vice Prime Minister, for your answer. Mr President, for the second time today I must say that I agree with a Socialist. Mrs. Onkelinx said the Deputy Prime Minister wasn't left. That's right. Our deputy prime minister is one of the balance of justice. We agree, Mrs Onkelinx. I also agree with what Mr Dewael said about political decision. A reading of the social agreement also shows that this is the case within the agreement reached by the majority and within the legal framework adopted by that majority. The government has made efforts. We have called for a great deal of effort from entrepreneurs, from families and people. In recent years, at least in the last year, 37 700 additional jobs have been lost; for the VDAB 226 000 additional vacancies, 25% more, the fourth consecutive year in upward trend; 83 000 start-ups, 7% more than last year and also for the second consecutive year in upward trend. This year and next year, with this government, we will be adding to our efforts thanks to the tax shift, which means that we are giving more net wages to the people. Mr Vice Prime Minister, I call on you to continue along this path with the government, not to call into question the early economic recovery, to further anchor social peace by respecting the agreements and the agreed challenges, including the mobility budget, in order to stop congestion and provide burn-out solutions, together with the social partners.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-12-54-plenair-ip152x.u18	Mr Vice Prime Minister, I do not want to spoil the good atmosphere at all. This is more constructive than the traditional bickering and fighting in the majority. I regret, however, that you have not been just 110 % clear on this point. I'm really sorry about that. My group is genuinely a group that likes factories to be open, factories to run, the store to be set in motion. Then I think it's a bit of a missed opportunity, at least a little bit, that you're just saying today: we're gonna approve that, we're gonna do that. I respect the social partners and they have negotiated them. You have been very specific about other difficult things before. Today, it's not quite working. Mr De Roover says it has to be calculated first. I hope, Mr De Roover, that it will not be done by Mr Van Overtveldt. I can only encourage you, Mr Deputy Prime Minister, to quickly tell the unions and employers: you will be given this mandate, convince your people, and we will move this country. Not only for this, but also for other points. Mr Dewael, I hear you saying that we need further reform. This agreement shows that reform should not necessarily be at the expense of ordinary people. Employers and employees can be united on social reforms. The issue of debt securities was mentioned by the social partners. Take mobility. We can perfectly make it easier for people to get to work and at the same time do something for the climate. That's atoneable. We do not need to take pay off people to give our companies more competitiveness. We can do something perfect for both younger and older employees. Let us tackle together the issues raised by the social partners, Mr Vice-Prime Minister, and that is my final appeal. That will be much simpler if you are immediately 110 % clear about the position of this government. Please do not be hindered by the N-VA and by Mr De Roover.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-12-54-plenair-ip152x.u19	Minister, as far as we are concerned, your answers have been very clear. Those who did not understand should open their ears more because your answers were clear. For us, this agreement symbolizes three things. First of all, the emptiness of populist discourses; today we can deplore the absence of PTB colleagues who are still there when there are thousands of demonstrators on the streets but are absent when there are agreements with the social partners, which is no coincidence. Secondly, contrary to what has been said, this agreement is obviously a sign of support for the government by the social partners, since a framework has been set and laws have even been anticipated and will probably be passed soon. Finally, as the most important symbol, we hope that this agreement marks the return of social peace in Belgium and the beginning of a new era, with a more constructive discussion than in the past. We can only rejoice at these three symbols.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-12-54-plenair-ip152x.u20	Mr President, Minister, I also felt that you were not very clear in your reply. I repeat that the social partners have managed to reach an agreement in very difficult circumstances. In your reply, you even said that they took account of a draft law that has not yet been adopted. So they did their utmost. They have complied with the proposed framework, a framework which did not offer much room for manoeuvre. With little resources, they have been very creative. You have explained what steps will now be taken. You ended by expressing the hope that both the social partners and the entire government will approve this agreement. Minister, I hope that we will not be standing here again in a month's time and that you will then have to come and explain why it is not possible. You are exactly surprised that we are questioning that you are taking the social partners seriously. Let me go back in time with you. An agreement has once been reached by the Group of Ten, unanimously approved. You also said at the time that you would look at the agreement. A few months later, you had to report that not all members of the government agreed with this unanimous agreement of the Group of Ten. So that caution and that doubt did not just happen. Minister, it is now up to you to show that you are really taking the social partners seriously, so that in a few months' time we will not be standing here again for some kind of dereliction.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-12-54-plenair-ip152x.u21	Mr Peeters, I would like to join Mrs Onkelinx in saying that there is something good in everyone, but that there are also shortcomings in everyone. The same goes for Mrs Onkelinx, by the way. She's a very funny lady. She only has one downside: she's left! We have all noted that the PTB is unfortunately missing from this debate. It was up to Kristof Calvo to take over the role of sourpuss and he also filled that role with verve. For the rest, I believe that we have created a clear framework with the government. The draft laws currently before us in the Committee on Social Affairs have also created a framework in which social agreements are possible. With these agreements we can involve both the active and the inactive in an overall picture. I really hope that this agreement fits in with the budgetary path that we are imposing on ourselves. When the government comes to that conclusion, I hope that the groups, which today are rather light-hearted about whether certain agreements also have budgetary implications, will refrain from commenting and criticising at the next budget discussions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-12-54-plenair-ip152x.u22	Ladies and gentlemen, I have been a little mild on this first chapter. I should like to remind you of the Rules of Procedure, which set speaking time at two minutes per question, two minutes for the answer and one minute for the reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-12-54-plenair-ip152x.u23	Mr President, Mr Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, my question concerns the security chain of our country, which is a topical issue. Indeed, the technical and scientific police laboratories, called "labos PTS", are a very important link. However, these labs suffer from a real disinvestment in terms of staff and infrastructure. In terms of personnel, first of all, the services currently have some 400 members, while the unions tell us that it would take at least seven hundred. As far as infrastructure is concerned, adaptations are absolutely necessary in order to obtain in 2018 the European accreditation for the analysis of fingerprints and DNA traces. The situation is therefore very worrying. On the one hand, unions – all sensitivities – threaten to go on strike within ten or fifteen days if no recruitment is planned. On the other hand, many judicial districts may no longer have accredited labs in the near future, without government intervention. Minister, some sources report that you would like to reduce the number of labs. Several scenarios would be explored: a 14-lab model, with judicial districts; another five-lab model per court of appeal jurisdiction; and perhaps more three-lab model, it is said. There would even be a fourth version where there would be no more lab at all, and the analyses would then be entrusted to the private sector. In this context, it is important that you are able to present the different models involved, their logic, the budgetary constraints that guide you – in line with the field work – and the processes implemented. Here are my three questions, Mr. Chairman. Minister, what scenario will you prefer for PTS labs? Then, what steps will you take to address the accreditation issue in 2018? Finally, what signal are you going to give to the unions that are threatening to leave in ten or fifteen days, since they think that the announced recruitments will be insufficient? Thank you in advance for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-12-54-plenair-ip152x.u24	Mr President, Minister, my colleague Mr Demeyer has just drawn up a very good picture of the state of particular concern of the technical and scientific police under the federal police. This is not the first time the unions have called the alarm bell. I heard you, recently, on the radio channel La Première, at RTBF, say, "Tranquille yourself. We made the decision to recruit. The evidence is that in 2016, we have 1,600 young and younger people in training in police schools, and there will be 1,400 this year. So we'll have staff." If not, Minister, every time you are told about shortcomings and shortcomings in the workforce, you are going to do it again: the schools are preparing for the new generations of police officers. Except that schools prepare these generations of police officers for local police areas and other federal police services, and that, as the unions tell you, it is not these schools that train technical and scientific police specialists. It is therefore not these schools alone that will be able to provide the missing staff. I would like specific commitments. How many staff do you think you need to equip the technical and scientific police? The unions say that it must have at least 700 people. There are only 400 staff today. Are you going to raise the total to 700, and at what rate exactly? Secondly, Mr Demeyer's question was just as relevant: what architecture are you going to do about it? Beware of the temptation, indeed, not to go towards privatization! This is one of your obsessions: the privatization of a number of police missions. You may still be tempted, in this sector, to propose forms of privatization. Question 3: Are you finally going to open a real dialogue with trade unions on all these issues? It is quite surprising, in the end, that the party that claims to be the party of order and respect for public safety has at this point aroused so much discontent in the police service, since you assumed responsibility for it, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-12-54-plenair-ip152x.u25	Mr. President, Minister, there has already been a clear delay in police recruitment, both local and federal, for several years. That is why, as Mr.Maingain pointed out, the government decided on an unprecedented complementary recruitment: 1,600 people in 2016, 1,400 in 2017 and 1,400 in 2018. Today, it is the technical and scientific police who confirm that there is a shortage of staff. This is not new and it is all the more important to hear that these people have faced terrible workloads as a result of the attacks in Belgium. It should be remembered that during police reform, there were 160 technical and scientific police. In 2013, they were 250 and today they are 400. There has therefore been an increase, but they need more elements. It's a sophisticated staff, nobody's going to challenge it. This is why, last year, several jobs for laboratories were opened within the framework of internal mobility, notably for laboratories in Mons, Liège and Limburg. Minister, you also announced that a comprehensive specialized "lab" training would be implemented by the National Police Academy in October 2016. The question of training for this very specific recruitment is of paramount importance. But one police area is not the other, the operation is different and not everyone automates its operation in the same way. How many additional staff will you provide to the technical and scientific police following the recruitment decisions that were made last year? How many laboratories are currently operational and what are their prospects? Since a European directive will require harmonisation in 2018 of the processing of fingerprints, what decisions will you or have you already taken to ensure that the country is ready in terms of infrastructure and training?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-12-54-plenair-ip152x.u26	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I must tell you that there is no notice of strike. The unions met yesterday in the negotiating committee. The issue of accreditation was addressed. The Federal Police Directorate has heard and will take into account the comments made. As regards the accreditation of laboratories, several scenarios were analysed and compared during 2016. This work has been carried out within the federal police force. Last Monday, a final opinion was delivered on this matter. After an analysis by my office, I will consult with my Justice colleague, Koen Geens, with shared responsibility, so that a decision can be made as soon as possible to the federal police leadership. So you're right, there are several scenarios on the table, but a decision will soon be made about this laboratory structure. In order to meet the capacity deficit in practice, the average deficit for the 14 FJP is around 15.62 %. As Mr.Pivin said, a training of "specialised lab" principal inspectors began on 1 September 2016. It will end in May 2018. A new recruitment will be organised in the course of 2017. To address operational capacity problems in some forensic units, various measures have already been put in place, including the secondment of structural lateral support between forensic units and recruitment through mobility. A reflection will be carried out in the coming weeks within the judicial pillar and with the various partners as regards the optimisation of the number of "Crimes" permanences throughout the territory.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-12-54-plenair-ip152x.u27	Minister, I have heard your answers, but I am not reassured. I'm not reassured about the staff. You did not indicate the priority of recruitment. You didn't indicate any numbers. With regard to the model, I regret that you are not clear on a three-component model that would look more like the application of a political program of regionalization than a functional program that would go with the boroughs or jurisdictions of the Court of Appeal. Finally, with regard to budgetary constraints, they are the ones that have been created. I will conclude by saying that, in some Nordic countries, Mr President, victims who want maximum exploitation of the traces can obtain it but by paying for it. So, if the government wants to save money by applying these doctrines, we will not be able to subscribe to a two-speed forensic model. We would like to be reassured on this point too.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-12-54-plenair-ip152x.u28	Minister, tell us that, for the past year, the work of reflection has been carried out, but that today you cannot tell us, in your opinion and according to your political choices, what the real effective framework you want for the technical and scientific police is the simple admission that the reflection is going in circles and that you do not, in short, have a clear vision of this essential mission of the federal police. I can only regret it.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-12-54-plenair-ip152x.u29	Mr Minister, as chairman of the police college in the Brussels-West area, I came out of a trade union consultation in which we had to find solutions for the strengthening of intervention services. You helped us when we asked for it. I have no difficulty in thinking that you will help this cornerstone of the Belgian judicial system, which is the technical and scientific police in their request for staff strengthening. For my part, I am reassured that you will listen to them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-12-54-plenair-ip152x.u30	Mr President, Minister, over the past week, various statements in the media have shown that our prisons have become recruitment centres and hotspots for jihadists of IS and other radical Muslim movements. I have my deepest reservations about the principle that people can be deradicalized. The problem is not radicalisation, the problem is Islam. That's my analysis, and you know it. We are not going to have that debate today. I would like to have the debate today on how you think you can solve the problem. You propose to recruit more Islam consultants, to organise more deradicalisation programmes and to pump more money into such initiatives. Allow me to say that I have the impression that you want to fight the fire by sending arsonists to the fireplace. Does it make sense to recruit imams to deradicalize? I don't think so. I think the result will be the opposite. We must get rid of the illusion of deradicalisation. We must dare to go for other solutions, Minister. This means reducing the Belgian nationality of those who have dual nationality, 90% of the 450 who are in prison as a jihadist and send them back to their countries of origin. For all I care, they must be brought to justice in the place where they have committed war crimes and other crimes against humanity, as an IS sympathiser or a fighter, in Syria and Iraq. I can assure you that the regime knows about that kind of terrorists. It is not a semi-soft solution, it is a clear settlement with terrorism and with those who are committed to terrorism. My question to you is therefore obvious. What will you do now that the problems are so acute and so clear? What will you do about the fact that prisons are recruitment centres and, it seems, training centres for IS militias? The instructions on how to make explosives go from cell to cell. How do you solve that? I might ask the right Minister, responsible for Home Affairs, who has to deal with these problems on the ground, but whose colleague from the Justice Department is unable to control those who have been arrested at least.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-12-54-plenair-ip152x.u31	Mr Dewinter, you are well aware that this is a question that falls within the competence of Minister Geens. I therefore also have the noble task of providing the answer on behalf of Minister Geens. First of all, however, I totally disagree with at least one point of your discourse. We need to think carefully about what you're saying. You're saying that sending an imam, whoever it is, to prison will help radicalization. So you indicate that there are no bona fide people throughout the Muslim community in this country, which counts between 700 and 800 000 Muslims, who have the same objective aim as we, particularly terrorists, are trying to neutralize violent extremists. Well, I fundamentally disagree with you in that regard. I now give you, on behalf of Minister Geens, the answer to your question. Besides, something in me says he'd agree with this first part, too. I am going to give you a brief state of affairs on how to deal with the problem of radicalisation in prisons. In the last two years there has been considerable initial investment in the training of both staff specifically employed in relation to radicalised detainees and prison staff in general. A modular placement policy was then worked on on the basis of a screening. The Minister of Justice's policy is to maintain the maximum integration of radicalised detainees into ordinary prisons in the first instance. Only if there are no other options will these prisoners be placed, either in satellite prisons where more intensive attention is paid to trends of extremism and radicalisation, or in a DeRadex department where they are separated from the other prisoners. The cooperation with various partners, including the State Security Services, the police forces and the judicial services, has enabled us today to make a relatively reliable assessment of the extent to which and how radicalisation trends are manifesting in prisons. With regard to the supervision of these prisoners, we are currently working in close consultation with the services of the Communities on roadmaps to further develop and improve their implementation. This guidance is the most difficult step in the action plan, but fortunately we can count on good cooperation with the Communities. Finally, I would like to say that the extension of the original framework for Islam consultants, from 17 full-time equivalents to 28 full-time equivalents, is almost a fact. They are also specifically trained in relation to the phenomenon of radicalisation. They are integrated from the very nature of their duties into the approach and guidance of the detainees. In order to underline the importance of their input, an amended statute, which they questioned, is currently being developed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-12-54-plenair-ip152x.u32	Mr. Secretary, gentle healers make stinking wounds. This is also evident in the case of the so-called Islam radicalisation in prisons. You are not going to solve the problem with the alternatives put forward by Minister None, quite the contrary. The whole population, along with me, is asking a lot of questions about this and is concerned. If we cannot control the 450 jihadists we have arrested in prison, how can we control the Islam radicals who move freely in our society? Finally, I would like to comment on what you said in your own name. You say that there are undoubtedly some moderate Muslims in our country who condemn terrorism and contradict the jihadists. No doubt, but that is not the essence of the problem. The question is whether there are moderate Muslims. The question is whether there is a moderate Islam. There isn't! The Koran is a military manual that calls to the armed jihad against the kafirs. We are, or almost all of us, the non-Muslims, the unbelievers. That is the reality and that will also put those imams into practice, one more with the taqiyya, the swindle, the other in a more explicit way, but in practice they will finally preach the word of the Qur'an, the word of Allah, written by Muhammad, to their believers.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-12-54-plenair-ip152x.u33	You have to finish, Mr Dewinter.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-12-54-plenair-ip152x.u34	Let us not make naive assumptions about this. We know that violence belongs to Islam and is preached by imams. So, imams don't belong in prisons and certainly don't belong with jihadists.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-12-54-plenair-ip152x.u35	Madam Minister, I will show you the poster that has been displayed since 1 January 2017 in various offices of physicists in Flanders. New patient tariffs are being applied in many kine practices, now that the biennial tariff agreement with the kinesis has come to an end and no new agreement has yet been reached. The rates go from 22 euros to 25 to 27 euros for half an hour. This means, in concrete terms, that the patient has almost 20% extra costs for treating the physiotherapist, which have to be paid entirely out of his own pocket and which he unfortunately cannot charge for the maximum invoice either. Madam Secretary, the kinesis are not satisfied. They think their fees are too low. Since 2009 there have been several whole and half index jumps. They feel that their profession has evolved very strongly in recent years and has become more evidence-based. Most of the physicists also have a master's degree. They feel that their travel fees are too low, that they are underrepresented. Those are some of their grievances. Madam Minister, I am also asking this question because of the importance of patients. Where are we today? I understand there are negotiations going on with the sickness funds and the RIZIV. The professional organisations want a new agreement, but they find what is on the table today too little. Madam Secretary, I have three specific questions. Firstly, to what extent have the new free rates been applied since 1 January? Do you have a visual on that? A telephone call tells me that the new rates are being applied in many cabinets today. Secondly, where are we on the negotiations today? What proposal is on the table? Thirdly, should a proposal not be made, will you decide on an individual convention rate? If so, how high will that rate be?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-12-54-plenair-ip152x.u36	Madam Secretary, can I thank you very much for the fine New Year's gift: price increases at the physicist and price increases at the doctors? That is indeed very nice to use the new year, especially for those who have a bit more financial difficulty, isn't it? The kinesis can pass on up to 32 % more to the patient from 1 January, because the tariff agreements have not been renewed. The two largest medical syndicates have informed the RIZIV that they have terminated the agreement. If nothing happens, they will be free to set their rates from 1 February. In both cases this is directly due to your blind saving policy. If the doctors want to compensate for the savings you impose on them alone, the patient is waiting for an invoice of 150 million euros. ♪ Ever seen ♪ [[.]] The withdrawal or rejection of chords on such a large scale has never been seen. About getting the whole healthcare sector against you, il faut le faire. Congratulations! We've been warning about that scenario for months. What else do you need to wake up? Madam Secretary, what will you do now? Will you still try to save the agreements and will you come back to your blind savings? Or will you impose tariffs yourself? Or do you do nothing and let the people take the fall for it again? I would have liked to have heard that from you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-12-54-plenair-ip152x.u37	Madam Secretary, the physicists are calling the alarm bell. It has already been said, they have three important questions. Firstly, they want a higher remuneration for their consultations. Secondly, they want higher travel allowances. Thirdly, they complain about the enormous administrative burden of their profession. Of course, we Liberals are not insensitive to the kinesis' questions, but we know that we must work in a strict budgetary context. In the meantime, the existing convention has been terminated and not renewed. From now on, there are higher rates. As Mrs Muylle has already said, we are now paying EUR 25 for a consultation, EUR 27 for a house visit. Madam Minister, we know that consultation with the sickness funds is being organised on your initiative, in the relevant RIZIV Convention Commission. This shows that as a minister you attach importance to reaching an agreement with the kinesis. I come to my questions, Madam Secretary. As you are planning a new consultation, we believe that you will be able to meet some of the kinesis' questions with new negotiations. In your view, what are the chances of reaching an agreement in the end?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-12-54-plenair-ip152x.u38	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, last year the professional association of the physiotherapists cancelled the national agreement with the insurance institutions. Several attempts to reach a new agreement have not led to the expected result. So there is no agreement anymore at the moment. I have therefore asked the chairman of the Committee on Agreements to convene another meeting of the committee. That meeting began today at 2 p.m. at the RIZIV. As I address you, the physiotherapists and the insurance institutions are therefore renegotiating. I am fully committed to the consultation in order to find a solution that can provide patients with optimum certainty about the rates. I understand the concerns of the physiotherapists. There is, among other things, the prospect of a better reimbursement for home visits in severely ill patients for whom a transfer to the physiotherapist's office is difficult or impossible. The necessary care on the bed indeed deserves priority over comfort treatments. An index mass of 3.6 million is available to index fees. As far as doctors are concerned, we know through press releases the views of BVAS and Kartel, while the third medical organization AADM seems to take a more nuanced view. The Chairman of the National Committee on Medicine-Sickness Funds will convene a next meeting on 25 January. In view of that meeting, it is not advisable to make further statements. I would also like to make the most of the consultations in the appropriate bodies, as this consultation model has been working for many years in our country, Mrs Jiroflée. You pretend that it is the first time that an agreement has been terminated, but that is what happens at all times, at all kinds of consultation committees. It's not the first time it's stormed or blowing. So I'd still show some sense of reality.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-12-54-plenair-ip152x.u39	Like the Minister, I would like to point out that there is no point in blackmailing people. Skipping an index adjustment or halving an index adjustment has been taking place since 2009. We all know that at that time we had another Minister for Health, Mrs Kitir. So we shouldn't start blacking now. However, I am concerned about the patient, Mrs Kitir, who, as from 1 January, will receive more specifically 20% for consultation. I hope, Madam Secretary, that we can reach an agreement in the interests of that patient. Tariff agreements have been terminated before, but we have always succeeded in reaching a new agreement. We need to keep an eye on the application of the new free rates. Moreover, we must make maximum efforts to reach a convention rate, in the interests of the actors and the healthcare budget.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-12-54-plenair-ip152x.u40	Madam Minister, the termination of agreements on this scale has never been seen. I checked. You are clearly choosing the conflict model here. We, too, understand the needs of physicists and doctors, but in the first place patients and I do not hear you say anything about them. I sincerely hope that the negotiations can be brought to a successful conclusion and that the patient will not suffer. You've been telling me for a few years that the patient won't feel it, but the patient will feel it, and how! Just think of the fact that the third-payer scheme is being reduced, that the limit of the maximum invoice is being increased, that the district health centres are being addressed and that medication is becoming more expensive, and now this, more expensive rates. You make healthcare less accessible in bits, Madam Secretary, and you should be ashamed!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-12-54-plenair-ip152x.u41	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. I agree with Mrs Muylle's reply. It is important that you give all the opportunities for a good consultation. You have also made a number of suggestions here, which may lead to an agreement. It is important that you focus in the consultation on patients who cannot get into the physicist's office, and therefore give priority to home visits.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-12-54-plenair-ip152x.u42	Mr President, Minister, what is with the RIZIV numbers? Since 1997, the Flemings have been organizing an admission test for doctors and dentists, while in French-speaking Belgium there is freedom-luckyness, no admission test, no barriers. For 20 years, the Flemings have been trying to reduce health costs, while the French-speaking people are just laughing at us squarely. What are they doing? They just subpoena future RIZIV numbers, the so-called lissage. Madam Secretary, you had a solution. You said you would pay compensation for the past, the so-called negative lissage. In December 2014, you were able to conclude an agreement with the students, the faculties, the Communities and the Planning Committee. The agreement meant that there would be an admission test for the academic year 2015-2016 in the French Community. The academic year 2015-2016 is already over, 2016-2017 is already underway, we are almost in the academic year 2017-2018 and there is still no admission test. I had to find something very strange, Madam Secretary. On 23 December, at the end of the Council of Ministers, you tweeted: Last year students from the French Community will receive their RIZIV number. The Prime Minister was one of the first to retweet you. I could only conclude that Minister Marcourt had won: no admission test yet and yet he gets his RIZIV numbers. Yesterday, one of your government's partners, Madam Secretary, claimed that no agreement was reached that day, that there was still a need for a KB and that there were still conditions. My questions are very simple, Madam Secretary. What has or has not been decided at the Council of Ministers on 23 December? Is another KB needed for that decision, or can you just fill it out yourself? If there's going to be a KB, what's the content of that? I read in the 2008 KB that a lissage is provided until 2018. Will you change that? Finally, when can we expect these changes in the French Community?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-12-54-plenair-ip152x.u43	Mr. Chair, Minister, we cannot continue to keep medical students in the most complete uncertainty. None of them, at the beginning or end of the journey, can have clear answers and visions from the government. This applies first of all to those who are now in the final year of medical studies, who will be graduating in a few months. I hear everything and its opposite of this government. Some say they will have their INAMI number when they graduate in June. Other partners in your government say they won't have their INAMI number. So, yes, no, will the final year students have their INAMI number? What did you decide at the Council of Ministers at the end of December with regard to them? They are also students who returned in their first year in September 2016. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, the law, as I recall, provides that you may, Madam Minister – and you have decided to do so – define by royal decree the number of INAMI numbers for students returning to the first year when they come out. In this case, a royal decree was to be taken to define the number of INAMI numbers to be assigned in 2022 to future doctors who began their studies in September 2016. The law provides, Madam Minister, that you must take this royal order before September 2016. It's January 2017. Bad governance: you have in no way respected the law. You are swept away by the Council of State, which has given a negative opinion on your draft royal decree. Since then, nothing has moved! Are you going, yes or no, to finally demonstrate good management and good governance and make clear decisions, in a serious way? You can no longer afford to play with students. They are now the victims, at any stage of their medical studies. This is totally unacceptable and irresponsible.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-12-54-plenair-ip152x.u44	Mr President, Minister, here we are again. If this file ever gets solved, I'm not throwing a party, I'm throwing the biggest party in this country ever. All madness on a stick, this file is really not funny. I would like to join Mrs Fonck's words, because it is indeed scandalous, it is incredibly scandalous that there are students in Walloon universities today who do not know if they will receive a RIZIV number. It is also scandalous that nineteen years ago in Flanders families have been faced with an entrance exam and with dreams that are being destroyed. It is equally scandalous that we are all co-paying for the fact that nothing has happened in the French Community government for 19 years. Let us be clear, it is scandalous, Mrs Fonck, but that responsibility lies where it lies. The responsibility for the fact that we have to ask questions about this matter again and again, to the greatest regret, lies with the French Community Government and nowhere else. Let us be clear about that for a start. Madam Minister, we are also here today because this dossier does not tolerate any ambiguity. The consequences are clear, the responsibility is clear, but uncertainties do not tolerate this dossier. As a majority party, we negotiated an agreement at the beginning of the legislature to finally resolve this matter once and for all. That agreement was also very clear. It said that conditions were attached to the fact that the students who are in these study areas today would still receive RIZIV numbers. Those terms were the following. There's got to be a filter. There must be a 60/40 distribution or at least a well-founded distribution. As far as we're concerned, it's still a 60/40 distribution. The number of doctors built up over the last 20 years will have to be paid off. Those were and are the terms. Only then can RIZIV numbers be distributed. Mr Wouters has said that she is right in saying that we have lost another few years since because Mr Marcort had found something on it. A filter could also be a senior exam, so he thought, and he tried it first. I always said that wouldn't last. It didn't last. He knew that himself. That is why, for once, he has not asked the Council of State for an opinion in advance. We lost those years. Agreed, those are old cows. There's an entrance exam now. Now let's get on with it. He's gonna have to pay for the last two years. Madam Minister, would you please confirm once again that the agreement in principle of these majority parties has not changed and that all these conditions will have to be met before RIZIV numbers are given? Perhaps it also means that the communication on the government's website is being supplemented a bit, because it was very incomplete this time.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-12-54-plenair-ip152x.u45	Madam Secretary, we are indeed standing here again. I would like to repeat once again that we as a party do not want to deprive students of RIZIV numbers at all today, but that we must now find a solution once and for all. We all agree on that, I believe. Madam Minister, I was also shocked by the communication launched by the government on 23 December in the context of awarding RIZIV numbers to students in the last year, so that they can start their internship. Why was that freaking me out? I agree with Mr Van Peel. We have always said, and that has always been the attitude of CD&V as a majority party, that there should be a solution for an effective filter, a second reading in the context of the submission of the decree to the Walloon Parliament, but there should also be a link. Colleagues, for those 1 300 doctors who are too many in Wallonia today, but also for the 400 doctors we lack today in Flanders, solutions must now be found. Madam Minister, I would like to repeat that it is very important that the negative lissage is known to you that this is my stick horse and that it is linked to the programme and the funding of the internships under the double cohort that is coming towards us, also in the context of the appeal, where we see that a lot of subquotas are not being filled out. I know that you need to talk to the Communities about this. These are the necessary conditions for us to attach to them before the new numbers can be given. Madam Secretary, I just want you to be clear. I hope that the communication of 23 December was only half the communication and that you can also confirm here today the conditions, which are oh if necessary in order to reach the solution.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-12-54-plenair-ip152x.u46	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you all for the additional question on the RIZIV numbers. The government did indeed decide on 23 December 2016, and I repeat what I said three times at the time, in order to allow all students who will be promoted at the end of the current academic year to take the internship, provided that an entrance examination is organised within the French Community. The government has therefore decided to give a RIZIV number to those who wish to do so. Under the condition that the entrance exam is efficient in both parts of the country, the government will grant that admission year by year to the students who will PhD in 2018, 2019 and 2020. Each time the conditions are checked and in function the number of RIZIV numbers to be released is determined. Mrs van Peel, the current situation is, as you have pointed out, the result of decisions taken in one of those files which date from before the beginning of the current legislature. It therefore concerns the so-called "shrinks' from the cupboard. Today's situation is what she is. It is our duty to provide a solution for the students who have been given access to the studies and have also made the necessary efforts to do so. It is therefore impossible to study for seven years and not be given the opportunity to practice the profession chosen. The Council of State found that the draft royal decree setting quotas 2022 would not be adopted sufficiently in time. A legal setting of quotas, as this body suggests, is technically impossible. The introduction of a legal procedure would also be too late. Nor will the preparatory procedure for this legal provision allow for timely publication. For this reason, the government has opted not to legislate on this issue. So nothing changes in the facts, because it is clear that the government does not give a blank cheque in any way. The number of candidates trained in addition to and above quotas will be taken into account when determining the total amount to be reduced, i.e. the negative list, which indeed, Mrs Van Peel, has yet to be worked out in the further agreement. It is true that the responsibility of each Community remains undiminished and that it is now necessary that a specific draft RIZIV numbers should be drawn up and submitted to the Council of Ministers for approval. As far as Mrs Muylle's specific question is concerned, I have given the mandate to convene the interfederal IKW established within the framework of the IMC in order to initiate dialogue with the entities as soon as possible. Mrs Muylle also referred to the problems of internships and the accompanying policy on the attractiveness of the profession. This coincides with all the interventions needed in the context of mastering the double cohort. A working group is also working on this and will continue to do so simultaneously. I am therefore waiting impatiently, Mrs Van Peel, for Mr Marcourt's second attempt to install his filter. We are waiting for the second reading. Only then can decisions be taken on the other conditions, such as the period in which we are going to make the negative list, how much we are going to do and so on. I also asked the Planning Committee to review its figures by one year more. That is what we are waiting for, of course, to conduct further discussions in the government. The terms that were there, they're still there. Mrs Wouters, I also read in your article with Mr Vuye that you do not understand why such a decision should be taken. Well, at a faculty of Medicine, the senior students do their internships after New Year in function of a further choice. They must also fulfil a number of conditions and be able to make their choice. It was therefore really in the interest of the students that that decision was taken at the end of December. You say that we should have waited until July, but that would have been almost criminal, because most students would not have been able to make their choice, in the continuation of their studies and specialisation. Mrs Wouters, I know you're supposed to be aware of your file, but here you have dropped a bit.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-12-54-plenair-ip152x.u47	Mr President, Minister, thank you very much for your detailed explanation and your correction. My question was why you decide that now. So you're giving these French-speaking students false hope. If Minister Marcort is not in good shape with his admission test, then you are not going to give those RIZIV numbers, so you admitted. The result is that you give the wide world the message that the French-speaking students get their RIZIV numbers. I have to admit that Mrs van Peel is also right to say that communication was flawed, because there were no conditions in the government's press letter. Secondly, I understand that you want to give people security, but giving false hope is much worse. You now say: "You have your RIZIV number, you can choose your internship." What if that admissions test isn't there by June? They do graduate in June. Madam Minister, if there is an appeal, we will be in December or next year and those students do not have the number yet. Then they graduate, they can't do an internship and sit around with their fingers for a year. Madam Minister, I would also like to answer you, and you should not do so. You now believe that Mr Marcourt will keep his word. You have seen it in the past, in 2015 he did not ask for advice from the Council of State and his decision was therefore illegal. The question also arises, of course, whether the students will appeal. Alien French-speaking judges, do you really think they will accept that negative lissage? I don't think we're at the end of this story yet.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-12-54-plenair-ip152x.u48	Madam Minister, who is telling the truth? If the members of the government, who were sitting at the Council of Ministers at the end of December, make different statements at the exit or interpret in their sauce what suits them, it begins to become more complicated and, in particular, it really means taking all medical students, including those who finish, hostage. The MR said, at the end of December, "last-year students will have their INAMI number" and a month later, they will be added conditions. I was not a member of the Council of Ministers. I imagine you were there, but between your version and that of the Prime Minister's party, it obviously doesn't fit. On the other hand, minister, I can only encourage you to respect the law and good management. The law says that "you should have taken a royal order at the right time", i.e. for medical students who begin, before their entry into the first year to define the number of INAMI numbers for 2022. You intervene after six months and too late! In this case, I would like to call for a little bit of height and try to have a comprehensive solution. I have been arguing for a long time: the ideal is to combine an entry examination – it was passed at first reading in the government of the French Community – while guaranteeing an INAMI number once this first filter has passed so as not to make fun of the students, taking into account the needs, the terrain, the cadastre and also the fact that 40% of doctors who receive an INAMI number in 2015 in the French Community are foreign doctors. If you prefer to maintain the option of bringing in foreign doctors, while our country is experiencing shortages in this area, rather than supporting our medical students and our graduate doctors, please excuse me, ladies and gentlemen, it is totally surreal!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-12-54-plenair-ip152x.u49	You've been way too long in the line!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-12-54-plenair-ip152x.u50	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. Yet, for the record, there are still conditions to pass on RIZIV numbers. The entrance examination must be approved, and the remainder must be completed. All these matters will have to be dealt with before we go any further. It's gonna end here and now. A compromise has been reached. There was already a compromise, partly by my party, because we do not want these students to fall victim to the non-policy of the French-speaking Community government. This is our absolute minimum. In itself, it is very cynical that the federal government should solve that misery, and certainly that the Flemings should solve that misery, when we have been doing what we have to do for 19 years. In any case, I do not want to have to explain to Flemish students and their families in this dossier that the rules are different for them and that we deny people their dreams, but that they can then pay for anyone who wants to become a French-speaking doctor, with all the overconsumption. You can't do that anymore! We insist on that compromise!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-12-54-plenair-ip152x.u51	Madam Minister, first of all, I welcome the fact that you are setting up a working group on internships and attractions, in view of the double cohort coming towards us. This is not the first time we have talked about this. You know that there is a great need and I feel in the field that it is becoming more and more pragmatous. Secondly, with regard to the conditions in your text, you have clearly made a link between giving RIZIV numbers and whether or not the entrance examination is applicable. Let me be quite clear: for us too, there is a need for an additional condition, in particular that the negative bid should be applied in the event of transfers. Madam Secretary, I have not heard that quite clearly. I hope that this condition is linked to it and that we can reach a solution as soon as possible. We are a modest party, Madam Minister and Mr Van Peel. We don't give mega parties when files are solved, but when this is resolved, I'll give you a grip on your party.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-12-54-plenair-ip152x.u52	Mr Hedebouw, I can only give you the floor on the order of business, but not on the subject itself, because you have not tabled an oral question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-12-54-plenair-ip152x.u53	Mr President, I heard that some Liberal colleagues blamed our absence earlier. I wanted to tell them that we were at the funeral of a comrade who recently left us and who touched us a lot. Nevertheless, we are present at every plenary session, and it is small to attack from the angle of "interprofessional agreement is not a reason to be absent"; we are here every Thursday. I hope that everyone will remain correct in the Chamber and that there will be no attacks under the belt. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-12-54-plenair-ip152x.u54	Mr President, I understand funerals, of course, but have your services been informed about the absence of both fellow Members?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-12-54-plenair-ip152x.u55	Not as far as I know.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-12-54-plenair-ip152x.u56	I checked it out. That is not the case. If I had heard a message of obstruction, I would not have made that comment. Perhaps that is the way forward: if you have a legitimate reason, you will let the services of the Chamber know.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-12-54-plenair-ip152x.u57	Mr Dewael, we expected to come to the meeting. The funeral took place at noon. We didn't expect to be away all afternoon. Furthermore, you know that we are here at every sitting every Thursday, even if we do not necessarily ask questions. It was small, but let's stay there. It was a funeral, and I think it's pretty painful like that. This is not the first time this has happened on the Liberal side; the same has happened with Mr.Maingain. Stay correct in the debates.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-12-54-plenair-ip152x.u58	Mr. Hedebouw, the incident is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-12-54-plenair-ip152x.u59	Minister, although you are in charge of finance, I would have wanted to know what health was worth to you, beyond being – since that is what it seems to be for you – a variable of budgetary adjustment, so much so that you are proposing to reduce excise duties on tobacco. More importantly, the tobacco lobby becomes your interlocutor. We now hear cigar makers express themselves and advertise themselves by declaring that, every day, 4.78 euros escape from the public treasury. As for you, you relay them. What a cynicism! Especially in view of the numbers I'm going to call you back. Every year in Belgium, 20,000 people die prematurely because of tobacco. This means fifty-five people per day, that is, two individuals per hour. These rates must also be of concern to you and a priority for you. You will argue that excise duties encourage smokers to buy their tobacco abroad and that other policies are needed. In this case, nothing happens. So, act, minister! You and your public health colleague, take action to completely eliminate advertising, to develop consistent tobacco prevention policies between the federal and federated entities! Take concrete action! But nothing is moving at the moment. Minister, I would like to ask you three simple questions. Who are your preferred interlocutors in this area? Are they cigar makers or are they citizens and health actors? What are your priority concerns? Are these the benefits of cigars or the health of citizens? Finally, what are you going to correct? Are you going to stop systematically making mistakes in the tax revenue estimates – this is an error of 150 million on tobacco excises – or are you finally going to take into account the costs of deaths, illnesses, necessary care – in this case, twenty billion are estimated for the budget?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-12-54-plenair-ip152x.u60	Mrs Gerkens, a number of figures, analyses and comments have been circulating in recent days on tobacco excise duties. Unfortunately, my reaction, my arguments and the nuances I was able to bring did not bear. Let me repeat the exercise before you. Excise duties on tobacco were significantly increased under the shift tax. The goal was to reduce the significant price gap between cigarettes and rolling tobacco. By adjusting excise duties an incentive effect was also sought, i.e. to discourage tobacco use and thereby improve public health. Have we been able to do this? If we take into account the overall excise revenues for 2016, the latest estimates indicate that we will achieve the objectives in broad terms. However, there are significant variations in product categories. Excise revenues on fuel increased more than expected while excise revenues on tobacco and alcohol did not meet this target. These trends are explained by different factors. First, cross-border sales: the first provisional figures show that border sales are 10 to 25% lower than in the past and that, at the same time, foreign sales in these same regions are increasing sharply. Then, the illegal sales of cigarettes that we follow carefully. Finally, there is no doubt that consumption is moving towards electronic cigarettes whose health effects are not yet well known. I intend to map these developments as best I can. In any event, it cannot be inferred, however, that the less favourable level of excise revenue on tobacco corresponds to a decrease in tobacco use. In addition, I have never said that I intend to lower the excise duty on tobacco. I said that there is a limit to what can be expected from the increase in excise duties, certainly in a country already very taxed and very open.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-12-54-plenair-ip152x.u61	You must conclude, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-12-54-plenair-ip152x.u62	Mr President, I still have a rather long sentence.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-12-54-plenair-ip152x.u63	I can't!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-12-54-plenair-ip152x.u64	I can, for example, imagine a thorough review of excise duties that is perfectly in line with the health requirements that remain, be assured, also for me a central element. [[The microphone's off.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-12-54-plenair-ip152x.u65	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-12-54-plenair-ip152x.u66	Minister, in the health sector, tobacco actors are a powerful lobby that uses all the loopholes and opportunities to position itself, to make people talk about it and to create a positive image. And you fell into the panel of their communication by sticking on the questioning of excise duties following their arrest. This was to say that fewer cigarettes are sold in Belgium because of excise duties. That was the basis of their communication. I take into account your answer that health is so important. So I am counting on you to ensure that this government also takes comprehensive action. We're waiting for these measurements. In the Health Committee, it has been more than a year that we have been trying to work with the Minister of Health to reduce advertising, to organize prevention policies and real health policies. If there's an actor who supports electronic cigarettes, not just to stop smoking, it's your government too. I hope that as a result of our discussion, there will be some consistency.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-12-54-plenair-ip152x.u67	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the Dutch have to pay EUR 2 billion less for their wind farms than we do. That means that the 2 billion in our country also ends up on the invoice of families and businesses. The reason is clear: we have been dragging along a system for more than ten years whereby we allocate zones to an investor, not because it is cheaper or better, but because it meets all the conditions. However, we do not care what the investor asks for. This means that people are in a difficult position. It is as if one goes to a contractor for a contract but only afterwards knows what it will cost. Madam Secretary, that's a millstone around the neck that you need to work with. After all, you cannot choose the cheapest partner. You must negotiate the price with that particular partner, who has a contract in his pocket for a long time. That's a difficult situation. We see that the Dutch are doing this differently and better. The current oversubsidisation is no longer accepted. Several colleagues have spoken out on this matter and no one wants to pay too much for wind power. Madam Secretary, with the CREG figures in hand, you will have to work, you will have to negotiate. In fact, three wind farms are planned for which subsidies still have to be decided. I think you should handle things with those figures in hand. In the first instance, you must ensure that negotiations are conducted. As the CREG points out, we must have the prices at our disposal. Secondly, if that does not work, I believe that we must be rid of the expensive system approved by the purple government ten years ago. In that case, the concessions must be broken, we must issue a tender and the cheapest tender must be chosen, in the interests of our companies. Madam Secretary, are you prepared to do so? That is our main question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-12-54-plenair-ip152x.u68	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, best wishes to all! As far as the issue is concerned, we are in a particular legal framework which must respect the essential elements, or else produce legal uncertainty, even for the three future parks. On the basis of the CREG report, which I asked for when I saw the prices applied as a result of the emulation and competition between different operators in Holland, I obtain support bases which are far lower than those which the CREG had planned in previous years. I will work with these support bases for the next three parks to see how to achieve a correct support that does not blow up the consumer's bill. This is what we have done with this government since, for the last two parks, Northern and Rentel, we have reduced support from what CREG expected in its 2015 report. As regards the desire to move to a Dutch system, my colleague Philippe De Backer is responsible for the concessions and I therefore refer you to him for a question on this subject. Also know that we are working together and that we will discuss this possibility together.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-12-54-plenair-ip152x.u69	Madam Minister, it is true that this government has already been able to get more than EUR 1 billion off the cost, but I think there is much more in it and I think we should do everything we can to get the right price. If this does not work through negotiations, then I believe that we should dare to abandon these concessions and opt for a different system, because that would prove that this system does not work in the interests of the consumer. I will, of course, continue to question and support you and your colleague, De Backer, to ensure that our families and businesses do not suffer the consequences of a past choice to work with concessions. We must get what we need, namely green electricity and low prices.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-12-54-plenair-ip152x.u70	Mr President, Minister, this week the press announced a significant reduction in jobs in Infrabel. There are 4,000 threatened positions at Infrabel by 2020. This would certainly have a negative impact on rail services in Belgium. Infrabel's 2016-2020 business plan would therefore foresee a decrease of almost 27% in the number of employees in the coming years. We can only make the connection with the budget reduction announcements made at the beginning of the legislature. In addition to the decrease in the number of employees, there appears to be an explosion in the number of contracts awarded by Infrabel to private firms. There is therefore a privatisation of the tasks of the railway system operator, particularly those related to its core business. Minister, I have three questions. Do you confirm the numbers of job losses reported in the press in recent days? Do you confirm the outsourcing of services related to Infrabel's core business? Are you going to conduct an analysis of the missions assigned to subsidiaries and subcontractors to see if it would be beneficial to re-enter certain activities within Infrabel?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-12-54-plenair-ip152x.u71	Madam, the figure of 4,000 that was quoted concerns Infrabel and its subsidiaries. Over the next few years, Belgian railways are planning to retire several thousand railway workers who were hired in the late 1970s and early 1980s. This is a major challenge that Infrabel has been preparing for for for a long time. The infrastructure manager informs me that he is implementing a policy of administrative simplification, automation, digitalisation that generates significant productivity gains. Infrabel is thus committed to an unprecedented modernization of its industrial tool. The proposed concentration of signal stations is a perfect illustration of this. This rationalization goes hand in hand with a total modernisation of traffic management. The use of new computer systems and state-of-the-art real-time computer support for signallers allows them to focus more on the most important nodes within the area of action, and on incident resolution. The figures themselves are the result of a proposal for a business plan, made by the management of Infrabel, which has not yet been approved by the board of directors. I have defended to the Council of Ministers the possibility for the companies Infrabel and SNCB to invest an additional amount of one billion in addition to the debt already approved, under the pre-financing agreements, in order to finance projects that reduce congestion on roads, improve mobility in Belgium and promote rail freight. I am thinking in particular of the second exit of the port of Antwerp, at the end of the works of the RER, electrification of the Hamont-Weert line for example. It is clear that Infrabel must take this request into account in the context of its business plan, all the more so, with regard to employment, in its subsidiary TUC RAIL, so that Infrabel is able to carry out its tasks and the work projects I have just mentioned to you. With regard to the consolidation and reduction of subsidiaries, Infrabel informs me that it continues to integrate a number of subsidiaries and their staff into Infrabel's responsibilities. There are no more external markets now, in terms of volume and percentage, than in previous years.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-12-54-plenair-ip152x.u72	Minister, I hear your answer very well. Allow me to remain concerned about this. At the beginning of the legislature, however, the government decided on these unsustainable budget cuts, while at the same time calling for productivity gains, without taking into account the impact of these decisions. I'm still worried. This winter, there were many delays related to infrastructure problems and climatic conditions. Winter has just begun. We'll see what happens tonight. It is not certain that the infrastructure will withstand this weather, and that the investments and mode of operation are up to the demand of our commuters. We believe that this policy only increases the number of delays. We know that there are a large number of infrastructure-related projects. Delays will only increase. We cannot accept it and we ask that an analysis be made, and that your ambition be commensurate with the needs of our country's travellers.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-12-54-plenair-ip152x.u73	End of oral questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-12-54-plenair-ip152x.u74	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-12-54-plenair-ip152x.u75	Mr President, I was the rapporteur for the first reading. I believe that the debate has shown that the subject is controversial. Everyone has given their arguments and I think the written report is complete on this. The debate will certainly show the differences, the criticisms and the questions of each other. I therefore refer to the written report for the first reading.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-12-54-plenair-ip152x.u76	I do not see Mr Vercamer reporting on the second reading. He also refers to his written report. I call Mr Spoormen.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-12-54-plenair-ip152x.u77	Mr President, the N-VA Group supports this bill to link the income guarantee for older people to a ten-year residence requirement. The aim of this new measure is to prevent abuse of our social system. Because this benefit is higher than the living wage, which amounts to EUR 1 052 per month, we would otherwise be threatening to attract a benefit migration. It is also not an antisocial measure, because those who are not yet eligible for the IGA are entitled to a living wage. For the N-VA it is important that the living wage, unlike the IGO, is linked to the conditions of integration. We believe it is important for people to show that they want to be part of society and that they have proved this for a time before they are entitled to higher social security benefits than the living wage. Third, this measure will have a budgetary impact from September 2017, estimated at a saving of €2 million in 2017. By 2021, that amount will amount to 9 million. In general, we believe that our social security is becoming more equitable by restoring the link between a benefit and a minimum contribution through work or participation in society.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-12-54-plenair-ip152x.u78	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the goal of the Income Guarantee for the Elderly (GRAPA) is to ensure that our seniors have sufficient income to lead a dignified life. This has been stressed in committee, our system is among the best performing in the world and we must be proud of it and not take it as an argument to reduce it. We have always fought and will fight again to ensure that our citizens have the best and widest possible social protection. You mustn't fool yourself, though. GRAPA today is far from Byzantium. It is below the poverty line and therefore does not protect our seniors from the risk of poverty. Today, the government wants to impose a double condition to benefit from GRAPA and thus diminish the protection of our fellow citizens by leaving some of them on the sidelines. While the government claims to fight poverty here, the impact assessment has no appeal: there is a negative impact in the fight against poverty, it is in the report. In the future, our fellow citizens who have not lived ten years in Belgium, including five uninterrupted years, will be excluded. Minister, for my part, I consider that everyone living in Belgium is a full citizen, there can be no second-class citizens. To justify this draft report by stating that it is not normal for a person who has been residing in Belgium for less than ten years to receive a higher pension than an independent person, as some have dared to say, could appear as a statement flirting with populist discourse. Indeed, it is to forget that independents too can benefit from GRAPA. In fact, in tackling GRAPA, the protection of citizens and, in particular, the self-employed is being addressed. For example, the self-employed person who settles in Belgium at the age of 59 and who wishes to take up his pension at the age of 65 will no longer be entitled to GRAPA, he will have to wait four years before being able to benefit from it. The impact on poverty is therefore very real. The fight against poverty is at the heart of our political struggle. Every day we fight for more social justice. For my group, this is therefore unacceptable. Moreover, our feeling is that this bill is in contravention of European law. In this regard, we have seen a move on the government side in committee. The Minister first stated that this text was in conformity with European law. Then he acknowledged that there was a risk. Who knows? Perhaps the government will now admit that its plan is contrary to the legislation. In any case, there is a great risk that it will be sanctioned by European courts. I won't be any longer. As you will understand, for all these reasons, we will not be able to support this bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-12-54-plenair-ip152x.u79	Mr President, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is now possible in our country, without contributing any money for our social security, to receive a social benefit which may be higher than that of certain workers who have contributed their entire lives. The purpose of the bill that we are about to vote on is to correct this inequality. To date, any Belgian resident fulfilling the conditions of income, age and nationality could benefit from the income guarantee for the elderly. As you know, the purpose of this bill is to introduce an additional condition for eligibility, namely the condition of effective residence in Belgium for a minimum of ten years, of which five years are uninterrupted. It applies to all, regardless of origin and nationality. Moreover, it is already in force in several EU Member States, such as Finland. The objectives of this measure are clear and legitimate. The first is to strengthen the link between the beneficiary of GRAPA and Belgium and also to ensure that the scheme remains exceptional and does not become an incentive for social shopping. Ladies and gentlemen, during the two debates, several unfounded remarks were made. The MR group would like to return. First of all, no, this text does not reinforce the precariousness of pensioners in our country. Persons already benefiting from GRAPA are not affected by the measure; no one will lose their rights to GRAPA. But, yes, as the minister in committee pointed out, there will be a negative effect on the incomes of some people who have never lived in Belgium in the past and have never contributed to our social system. The purpose of the bill is to limit access to GRAPA to individuals who have a connection with our country. In Belgium, the amount of GRAPA is one of the highest in the European Union. This proves that the fight against poverty is a political priority in our country. Following the reservations made by the Council of State regarding compliance with article 23 of the Constitution, this draft does not affect social protection since neither the amount nor the method of calculation of GRAPA is changed. Also, as our colleague, Vincent Van Quickenborne, pointed out, the project serves the general interest by maintaining a balance between contributions and rights. Before becoming alarmed, it is important to recall that, in all its opinions, the Council of State expresses reservations about compliance with article 23 of the Constitution, as soon as it is concerned with social protection and whatever the content of the draft. Some colleagues have expressed reservations about the conformity of this regulation with European law. As the Minister has done in committee, and in line with what is apparent from the opinion of the Council of State, I would like to point out that it will be up to the Court of Justice of the European Union to decide on the correct interpretation to be given to the regulation if this issue is raised in the context of an action in this field. Ladies and gentlemen, we do not believe that this text is contrary to European legislation in the sense that no distinction on the basis of nationality is made. However, other Member States reserve the granting of such allowances to their nationals. In conclusion, Mr.Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the MR Group would like to commend the government and, in particular, the Minister of Pensions for this bill. Once again, you demonstrate to us the rigour of your work to ensure a fairer and more egalitarian pension system for citizens. It is therefore logical that our group will support this project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-12-54-plenair-ip152x.u80	Mr. Speaker, Mr.Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the various colleagues have re-explained the content of this bill. I am therefore not going to take up these various elements, but I would nevertheless like to make a significant comment on the two important criticisms of the Council of State on this text. There is compliance with Article 23 of the Constitution but there is clearly also the aspect on non-compliance with European law. I would like to recall Articles 4 and 5 of Regulation (EC) No 883/2004 of the European Parliament and the Council Regulation of 29 April 2004 on the coordination of social security systems under which a residence in a given country of the European Union must be treated as a residence in another Member State of the European Union in the context of the assessment of the right to an allowance, which is not the case in the draft law submitted here by the Government. Only a ten-year residence in Belgium, including five uninterrupted years, is eligible for GRAPA. In your draft, Mr Minister, you have provided that a residence in another Member State of the European Union is not treated as a residence in Belgium, which is contrary to the two European Regulations which I have just recalled. In committee, I tabled an amendment to correct the system on the European side. Let us acknowledge here – this is becoming a habit – that these amendments are rejected without even any legal analysis. Minister, let us also remember that you have not even lifted the legal uncertainty in committee. You went so far as to recognize that the text could pose a problem in European law. You have fallen behind the fact that, if necessary, it would be up to the Court of Justice to decide. I find this situation surreal. If each Member State of the European Union starts to disregard the provisions of European law and to notify when the Court of Justice will decide... Moreover, it will not necessarily be seized, in one sense or the other. This is absolutely not serious. So you are proposing a text that you know, and the Council of State clearly confirms it, that it is not legal and not in conformity with European law. For me, that's the most important question. I would also like to say that there is still a great deal of uncertainty about the estimation of the number of people potentially affected and the estimation of savings. As often, if these savings are realized, they will be largely, if not completely, passed on to CPAS. It is therefore a referral to CPAS of additional financial charges, according to a system of communicating vases. I will not intervene at any length on this matter. You will understand, we will abstain. I find it very unfortunate and damaging that serious work could not be done and that the government comes with a text that is contrary to European law, without even bothering to justify it. I understand that you are unable to defend him legally. As a Europhile, I find it rather deplorable to say that in substance we will see what the Court of Justice of the European Union will say, without even correcting the text so that it complies with European law, which was possible. I'm sorry. We will therefore abstain from this text. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-12-54-plenair-ip152x.u81	Mr President, I will not repeat the debates that have taken place in committee on this subject. I would, however, like to stress three elements and, first, to reiterate the objective. I agree with Mr Spoorten. The first objective is to strengthen the link with Belgium and its social assistance system, which the beneficiary of the IGA must have. I consider it abnormal that people who have no connection with the country suddenly choose to come to Belgium when they are 65 years old, because Belgium offers the highest level of guaranteed income for the elderly (GRAPA) in Europe. This is obviously a way of leading to abuses that are not acceptable. I remind you, we are not in an insurance system, we are in an assistance system. In view of the comment made by Mr Daerden, it is true that if an independent person comes to open an independent activity at 59 years of age, he will not, indeed, have ten years of activity at the age of 65, but I can assure you that if he is a real independent, he will work up to 69 years to be entitled to what he is entitled to. Mrs Fonck, I am sorry, but it is not our project that is clear, it is the European regulation in this area! It clearly states in Article 3, 5° of Annex 10 that "aid schemes shall be excluded from the scope of this European Regulation". Of course, in an annex, the guarantee of income for the elderly is included in a system which would fall within the scope of the text, but in the body of the text, Article 3, 5°, formally excludes aid schemes from the scope of the European Regulation. That is why we must vote for this text, which makes it possible to ensure that the guarantee of income for the elderly is allocated to any resident in our country for ten years, of which five years of continuous residence, be it Belgian or not, without discrimination of any kind. Whatever its origin, whatever its confession, whatever its convictions, everyone is entitled to the same type of calculation and to the same type of rights, but with conditions that are listed in the current law, to which we add a new condition that seems fair to me, as it is true, I repeat, that it is abnormal that a person who has never resided in our country or has never even worked there has a social benefit higher than the pension that is guaranteed by self-employed persons who may have worked 35 years or employees who have worked 30 years in our country. That is the reality! If you find that this situation is normal, it is a particular conception that I do not share. I believe, on the contrary, that a minimum of responsibilities must be used here.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-12-54-plenair-ip152x.u82	Mr President, I will respond to two elements of the Minister's response. First, it is not serious to say and to think that a 65-year-old will leave his country and choose Belgium, after carrying out a thorough analysis of the place where GRAPA is the highest. She will not leave her country for a few euros more than in another country. I don't think that's serious at all. Secondly, I come back to a counter-truth that you have just said and rehearsed. Someone who has worked for a few years is also entitled to GRAPA. This person will have no less than the person who, until now, has not lived ten years in Belgium and who is entitled to GRAPA. He'll be entitled to the same GRAPA. Don't say these people will have more than someone who's worked, because it's not fair!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-12-54-plenair-ip152x.u83	Minister, I would like to reply to you on the subject of European law. Indeed, you refer to the Court of Justice of the European Union, which will decide. But this Court has decided, in a very clear way. I quote again his decision for the report. The uncertainty you are referring to was clearly removed by the Dano judgment of 11 November 2014. It has clearly established that periods of stay in any Member State of the European Union must be treated as a stay in a particular country. I repeat this and that is the point that I have raised in this case: the lack of conformity with European law.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-12-54-plenair-ip152x.u84	Mr President, we will certainly approve this draft law, because it is a step in the right direction. I also follow the Minister's reasoning, unless he boasts that there is no discrimination between people who have or do not have nationality. I have just heard Mrs Thoron refer to Finland. I refer to Italy, Latvia, Luxembourg, Poland, Portugal and Slovenia, where there is an explicit need for nationality in order to be able to benefit from such assistance. There's nothing wrong with that. We have tabled amendments to this effect, because that would make a far greater difference than the restriction on the conditions you include in this bill. Whatever the turn or turn, the problem is shifted for the most part to living wages at OCMWFs, which will increase if you fall out of the welfare system. We are counting on your support, ladies and gentlemen, for the amendments, because we have also taken account of the fact that countries with which this country has concluded a reciprocity agreement fall outside the strict condition of nationality. That seems to me to be the logic itself. It would be far more effective than the draft bill you are putting to the vote today.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-12-54-plenair-ip152x.u85	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-12-54-plenair-ip152x.u86	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2141/6) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2141/6) The draft law contains 5 articles. The bill has five articles.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-12-54-plenair-ip152x.u87	****** The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments and articles that have been tabled and on the whole will take place later. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments and the reserved articles as well as on the whole will take place at a later date. ******
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-12-54-plenair-ip152x.u88	******
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-12-54-plenair-ip152x.u89	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteur is Mrs Rita Bellens, who refers to her written report. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-12-54-plenair-ip152x.u90	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2119/1) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2119/1) The draft law has two articles. The bill has two articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-12-54-plenair-ip152x.u91	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-12-54-plenair-ip152x.u92	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Mrs Fatma Pehlivan, rapporteur, referred to her written report. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-12-54-plenair-ip152x.u93	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2120/1) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2120/1) The draft law has 3 articles. The bill has three articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-12-54-plenair-ip152x.u94	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-12-54-plenair-ip152x.u95	Without report Not related
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-12-54-plenair-ip152x.u96	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-12-54-plenair-ip152x.u97	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2121/1) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2121/1) The draft law has 3 articles. The bill has three articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-12-54-plenair-ip152x.u98	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-12-54-plenair-ip152x.u99	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Mr Vincent Van Peteghem, rapporteur, referred to his written report. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-12-54-plenair-ip152x.u100	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2158/1) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2158/1) The draft law has two articles. The bill has two articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-12-54-plenair-ip152x.u101	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-12-54-plenair-ip152x.u102	Without report Not related
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-12-54-plenair-ip152x.u103	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-12-54-plenair-ip152x.u104	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2159/1) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2159/1) The draft law has 3 articles. The bill has three articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-12-54-plenair-ip152x.u105	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-12-54-plenair-ip152x.u106	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-12-54-plenair-ip152x.u107	Mr President, I would just like to point out that this is a mixed treaty, in which the Communities and the regions of this country have also given their consent and agreement. It was also adopted unanimously in committee. I would also like to refer to the committee's written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-12-54-plenair-ip152x.u108	Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-12-54-plenair-ip152x.u109	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2160/1) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2160/1) The draft law has 3 articles. The bill has three articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-12-54-plenair-ip152x.u110	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-12-54-plenair-ip152x.u111	This proposal was adopted by the Advisory Committee on Social Emancipation pursuant to Rule 76 of the Rules of Procedure. This proposal was adopted by the Social Empowerment Opinion Committee pursuant to Rule 76 of the Rules of Procedure. The text adopted by the Advisory Committee is the basis for discussion (Rgt 85) (2233/1) The text adopted by the opinion committee provides the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2233/1) The meeting's open. The discussion is open. The rapporteurs are Ms Nele Lijnen and Ms Karin Jiroflée. Since the reporters have asked to be able to add their own comments on the motion for a resolution after their report, I open the general discussion. I give the floor to Mrs Lijnen.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-12-54-plenair-ip152x.u112	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as early as 2015, the Advisory Committee started examining the issue of rape. Indeed, it wanted to get to know and align the problems of rape and develop a holistic vision in which all aspects of the problem of rape are addressed. To this end, we have organised many incredibly interesting hearings. I have agreed with Mrs Jiroflée that I will explain one part of the report to you and she will explain the other part. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to point out that this is a very important issue, which is why we insist that the report be presented orally. At times we were caught by emotions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-12-54-plenair-ip152x.u113	Mr. Chair, since the subject is important, would it not be good for the minister to be here?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-12-54-plenair-ip152x.u114	The minister will be with us in a few moments. Mrs. De Block just came in, too. You are right, however, that the subject is such that it is better for a minister to be present. Mr Francken will be back shortly.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-12-54-plenair-ip152x.u115	Mrs De Block was also present in committee, given her powers in this area. Ladies and gentlemen, I felt it was important to discuss the subject in greater depth today, together with my fellow rapporteur, and to tell you what moments have taken us during the hearings. At the meeting of 16 June 2015, Ms Magda De Meyer, the President of the Women's Council, first spoke, then Ms Liesbet Stevens, Director, and Ms Marijke Weewauters, Head of the Federal Support Point for Violence against Women of the Institute for the Equality of Women and Men. We have also heard Mrs Viviane Teitelbaum, President of the Conseil des femmes francophones de Belgique, and Mrs Pierrette Pape, Director of the European Women's Lobby Campaigns and Policy. In particular, it was also discussed during the other hearings on the Sexual Aggression Set. The material is therefore available and its use has been explained step by step, but must be used optimally. In addition, there is a lack of specific forensic analysis in Belgium and insufficient forensic experts to provide prior advice on the removal of traces. It is up to the magistrate to decide which analyses should be carried out, without recourse to experts when taking that decision. Magistrates should motivate why they are not using the Sexual Aggression Set, but generally they do not. There are too few law doctors with expertise in the matter. General practitioners are also under-educated for the care of victims of rape. According to the speakers, this is regrettable, all the more so because they are often first informed and they know the victim well. It is important to provide their guidelines. There is no uniformity in the approach between police zones and judicial districts. In Belgium too, the victims should be able to use trauma psychologists, which is not possible at the moment. It is interesting to note that the number of non-reporting cases is much higher in the case of sexual offences than in the case of other offences and that the number of declarations does not increase. Given the serious impact of sexual crimes on the physical and psychological integrity of the victim, rape should be regarded as a serious crime affecting a large number of girls and women. It contributes to their destruction, their submissiveness and their marginalization, according to the ladies on 16 June 2015. Ms Pierrette Pape of the European Women's Rights Lobby noted that the European Agency for Fundamental Rights from a poll, in which 42 000 European women participated, found that a woman in three was the victim of psychological or sexual violence. Twenty-two per cent of the 42 000 European women interviewed have undergone family violence; one woman in three suffers psychic violence from her partner; five per cent of more than fifteen years of age were raped; 45 per cent to 55 per cent suffer from sexual harassment. This means, ladies and gentlemen, that 100 million women were victims of violence in Europe. Sexual violence is also a common phenomenon. Ms Marijke Weewauters confirmed, on the basis of various sources, that there were significantly more rape cases among students. Men may also be victims of rape, but to a much lesser extent. The taboo among men is greater. Cooperation between the courts and hospitals depends on local relations, for example whether a cooperation protocol was concluded. There is an effective need for a uniform approach. Practice shows that the willingness of victims to report is greatly increased in the case of adequate reception. Ladies and gentlemen, you have probably all read the report. I would like to review the work at the meeting on 30 June 2015, in which we had a very interesting presentation by Mrs Karine Minnen, Vice of the Brussels-Elsene Police Department, and Mrs Diane Reynders, Committee P. Often, a victim will present the facts as society expects of her. There is no specific training with the police for questioning of perpetrators of sexual crimes. The conditions for release under conditions shall be communicated to the police forces, but only at the specific request of the magistrate, compliance with the conditions shall be seriously verified. The situation is very worrying, especially in the cases of paedophilia. In view of the complaints concerning rapes and treatment of persons who have been victims of rapes lodged with the Standing Committee P since 2012 until May 2015, we learn that some of the complaints relate to minimising the facts and not taking seriously by the police of the rape victim in the lodging of a complaint. Victims of sexuality also report that the reception at the police is not working properly and complains about long waiting times, among other things. Victims are also dissatisfied with the psychological care afterward. The reception infrastructure remains crucial. It is not always easy to find a balance between the safety of the reception staff and a customer-friendly welcome through the presence of safety glass. Because of that glass, the visitor often has to explain the reason for his or her arrival. Karine Minnen from the Vice Department of the Brussels-Elsene Police insisted on an obligation to interview all victims of sexual violence audiovisually. If the audio-visual interview is generalised for all, it will also be applied over time. In the case of minors, too, little resources have been used. When it became mandatory, a number of technical standards were introduced. Now that it has been laid down by law that the interview of minors must be conducted audiovisualally, all the corps have applied the necessary means, either in the corps itself or through cooperation within the zone or with the help of the federal police. I shall now proceed to the meeting of 14 July 2015, in which we have heard Mrs Christine Van Herck, Mrs Angélique Janssens and Mrs Célia Baltus from the victim support service of the Schaerbeek police. In the Polbruno or Brussels-North zone, namely Schaerbeek, Evere and Sint-Joost, the service depends on the neighborhood police. The service is spread over four antennas, which are either located in a Commissariat or in a neutral building outside the Commissariat, so that victims who have difficulty in getting to the police can still use the service. In cooperation with the Consultative Assistants, some members of the Police Department ensure a watchkeeping service around the clock. This can be called up when the officer of watch notices that a person needs help, which is frequently found in cases of sexual violence. Not only will he provide guidance for the interrogation, but will also go to the hospital for a Sexual Aggression Set. Finally, some victims avoid all administrative steps connected with aggression, as they will inevitably be reminded of aggression. That is why the service itself contacts the victims before they ask for them themselves. The speakers refer to a conclusion by Etienne Vermeiren, as a psychologist attached to the emergency services of the Cliniques universities Saint-Luc, that after a rape there is an eight times greater chance of an attempted suicide. According to him, the aid workers are very strong in the early intervention after a traumatic experience, but it is much more difficult to treat older trauma complications. The way in which the first reception takes place is very important in this respect. However, infrastructure has not been adapted regularly. The doctors at the reference hospitals are sometimes too little familiar with the Sexual Aggression Set and only get to know that instrument when they have to use it. For budgetary reasons, it is often not used, although the victims expect a lot of it. Contact with the judicial system is often confronting the victims. They often do not understand why certain decisions are taken and why the perpetrators are not punished more severely. Some magistrates on watch are too little aware of the problem and should be better sensitised. The cost to a lawyer is often too high for victims who do not have access to a pro-Deo lawyer. Rape is common in cases of conjugal violence. The victim does not report this, often because she does not know that rape is possible and therefore punishable within the marriage. Many victims attach great importance to the evidence provided during the investigation with the Sexual Aggression Set. Some of these evidences are not usable or are not used. If a declaration is made within 72 hours, the tracks shall be recorded. It's not always clear what happens to the evidence after that. Because the reduction of biological spores is expensive, this does not happen systematically. If traces are taken that are not used afterwards, there is a risk of secondary victimisation and that is not a good situation. The Sexual Aggression Set is made for adults and minors. Whether the Sexual Aggression Set is used properly will depend heavily on the doctor involved. During the meeting of 20 October 2015, we listened to Mrs Myriam Claeys, deputy prosecutor of the Ghent region, and Mrs Eveline Gerrits, judge at the French-speaking police court of Brussels. In the case of chronic sexual abuse, the rape report is often even more difficult and takes longer to report. The results of the study using the Sexual Aggression Set are not always analysed. Mrs Claeys felt that it would be better to always analyse the results recorded with the Sexual Aggression Set, including possible links to other files or to check whether or not the victim was given drugs. Additional traces may also be collected on, for example, the bedding or other objects found at the scene of the crime. The speaker says that for her a sex case can only be dismissed for two legitimate reasons: either the unsub is not found, or there is insufficient evidence. The Sexual Aggression Set and the possible doctor certificate of beatings and injuries may help, but are not available in every file. That is why good expert reports are needed. These include the psychological certificates of the child or the adult victim or the psychiatric analysis of the suspect. At present there is a shortage of good experts, because the Belgian State pays the experts too little and too late. As a result, the quality of the service is also deteriorating. The evaluation procedure takes too long. A maximum period should be set within which the fees should be paid. This situation leads to a reduction in the quality of expert reports. The experts working normally take less time, which can lead to errors, which can lead to miscarriages of justice and to dossiers in which it is difficult to make progress. The CAB is a centre responsible for the cooperation between Justice and Health for the reception of sex offenders, so that they would be referred to the appropriate centres. The CAB also pointed out in its annual report the lack of framework for minor offenders, which means that the risk of recidivism is high. Such centres also exist in Flanders and Wallonia. The CAB can help with the treatment and referral of the perpetrators. It is appropriate to include a Sexual Aggression Set in each file. It is regrettable that sometimes, for budgetary reasons, it is not analysed. After all, an unsub may withdraw an earlier confession afterwards. The interrogation has lost importance since the Salduz legislation. The material evidence is therefore increasingly important. Mrs Claeys confirmed that the number of declarations in the Netherlands has increased since the existence of the reference centres. Ladies and gentlemen, I shall conclude the report and make my personal statement. The present resolution was unanimously adopted by the Social Emancipation Advisory Committee on 8 November 2016. The Advisory Committee instructed itself to examine the problem of rapes. Not only medical experts, police and justice experts have come to the committee. The competent members of the government have also come to explain their policies. After more than a year, we have drawn up our conclusions and they are unheard of. Every day, on average, ten people go to the police to tell them they were raped. Nine out of ten victims, however, keep her or his mouth shut. According to Mrs Sleurs, there are about 43 000 victims every year. Each year, the police record more than 200 gang rapes. Colleagues, measuring is knowing, and that is almost a cliché in this house, but it does not make it any less true. The fact is that we know very little about the problem. The so-called dark number is very large. Nine out of ten is silent because one is ashamed, afraid or desperate. Embarrassed because the unsub comes from the nearest neighborhood or because they're told it's their own fault. Scared because they're living with enormous trauma. Victims face enormous psychological problems and few receive appropriate help to deal with them. Desperately, because they think that going to the police doesn't matter and who does, his or her story must be told again and again and so again and again the nightmare. Often the report is far too late. However, it is crucial for the trace research that victims report within 72 hours. As a result, one in two complaints are dismissed. This is also apparent from the figures I asked Minister Geens. In five years, it's about 11 665 files. Of these deletions, 93 % are of a technical nature, i.e. limitation period, 4 %, no proof, 61 % or more than 7 000 files, or where the offender is unknown. That lack of evidence hurts us, ladies and gentlemen, because we have just heard what my colleague will say about the fact that the Sexual Aggression Set is often not used and that, in the event of a decrease, often nothing even happens to the results that, so to speak, go into the refrigerator. However, an expert said that when a case comes before the correctional court, it is often condemned. Of all the declarations, only 14% result in a conviction. It is a vicious circle of many dismissals, because the file against the offender is not strong enough, and of too few reports, because victims do not want or dare to do their story, which means that offenders go unpunished. The United Nations has already urged our country to work on this. We agree and ask for the dark number to be out of date, but that does not mean that the last word has yet been said about the dismissals. We read it recently in Humo, but I also requested the Minister's reasons for dismissing it: the limited social impact of the case; the disadvantage was too small; it was a crime of a relational nature; intra-family violence; the offender was too young; a mismatch with the consequences of possible persecution that would lead to social disruption; it was the victim's attitude; there was not enough detective capacity or other priorities at the time. In fact, the reasons and motives for dismissal I have just mentioned are unacceptable. We can't do that in our country. As a society, we give the signal to every potential perpetrator: go ahead. It can't go on like this. Minister Geens also agreed with us. He wants to work on more returns, a lower threshold, a stronger file, and finally more convictions. He made it clear that a clear and rapid response from the judicial system is necessary and that the legitimacy of this system is at stake. That's right. For, so he continued, otherwise there will be a sense of impunity among the perpetrators and of powerlessness among the victims. All I can say is, Minister, make this work. Follow your colleague, the Secretary of State, who has drawn up a national action plan in this area. Luckily, the government hasn't stuck around. It has drawn up a national action plan to combat all forms of gender-based violence. Rapes are an important part of the story. A crucial element is the start-up of the so-called multidisciplinary reference centres. There, police, medical and legal staff will be brought together to take care of, care of and guide victims. This is supposed to make sure that a victim only has to do her story once. The victim will have a counselor helping him or her with all the procedures. As far as I am concerned, and this was also the view of the entire advisory committee, these centres should be opened as soon as possible, throughout the country. The Istanbul Convention, which we approved in this House not so long ago, calls for a centre for our country per 200 000 inhabitants. The government also wants to ensure that a thorough trace study, based on the Sexual Aggression Set, is carried out much more frequently. Such an investigation is crucial to gather evidence after a rape. Ladies and gentlemen, I have already said that these sets are being used far too little. In 2014, for example, 19 % of the sets were analyzed. 19 %! How many are left in the freezer if they are already stored correctly? We hardly have eyes on that. What else does our resolution say? The development of reference centres and the splitting of declarations according to sex and age, both of the victim and of the offender. The possible connection between the two should also be recorded. These data are necessary if we are to gain a better understanding of this problem. I started with: measuring is knowing. This registration is a very important element of that. The reasons for dismissal should also be adjusted. There must be a proper inventory of the evidence. A national register of sexual criminals should also be set up, linked to similar international registers, including DNA data. Furthermore, there is a mandatory study of HIV and other STDs in potential offenders. I refer to Mr Van Cauter's bill, which has become law and which must be implemented as soon as possible. This investigation should be facilitated as far as possible by the victims. Another important point is the reimbursement of legal and medical costs for the victim. Ladies and gentlemen, before giving the floor to Mr Jiroflée, I would like to point out that this resolution is the result of a long series of work. But that's not the end of the story. We need to work towards greater awareness of the issue. Prevention is crucial, and regional authorities must also take responsibility for this, for example in education. I would also like to quote the Secretary of State who, in the magazine Humo, which published a very nice reportage on this subject which contributes to the socialization of the problem, said: "The attitude of the magistrate is related to the mentality in society. The public interest in this problem is low and therefore the case law and the magistrate are not interested either. This can be seen from the punishment for rape in this country. Colleagues, rape destroys a human being. Until today, we are unable to provide a sound package of care and legal follow-up for the victims, let alone a punishment for many of the perpetrators. It is my party, as well as all the parties in that advisory committee, that are serious about changing that. I would like to thank you very much for that. Finally, I would like to thank the services of the Advisory Committee who have done an incredible amount of work to help us prepare the report. I would also like to thank Mr Jiroflée, with whom it was pleasant to work together. In particular, unanimity on this report is a strong signal.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-12-54-plenair-ip152x.u116	Mr President, first of all I too would like to thank Mrs Lijnen for her excellent cooperation. I will come back to that later. I will continue with the report where Mrs Lijnen stopped. On 10 November 2010, we heard Ms Ines Keygnaert, postdoctoral researcher of Ghent University, and Mr Gert Vermeulen, professor of criminal law at Ghent University. They talked about the holistic approach that should consist of three shutters, a forensic, a medical and a psychosocial part. If it is addressed in this way, it should lead to better quality care, a faster and greater chance of recovery and less chance of revictimisation. We note that the Council of Europe, where the Istanbul Convention was signed, is also in favour of the holistic approach. The Convention states that all cases of sexual violence must be recorded and investigated. Here, too, a holistic approach is advocated through specialised centres. In our country, Ghent University Hospital is one of the few hospitals that have been working with a holistic violence protocol for more than ten years. There are different entrance gates, according to age and gender. The intake shall explain all different steps and take into account what the victim wishes or does not wish. If this has not yet been done, the police will also be involved in the proceedings.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-12-54-plenair-ip152x.u117	In the UZ Gent it is done in this way, but a survey of different hospitals in other provinces shows that the practice in the different hospitals is very diverse. Let me give you a few examples. There is or is no cooperation with police and prosecutors, the SAS test or Sexual Aggression Set is not systematically used everywhere. Whoever performs the SAS test is also very different, as is where it is performed. Psychosocial support is rarely provided and, moreover, it is as cynical as it is often only possible during office hours. Of course, a raped woman doesn't have a message about that. At another meeting, on 8 December, we heard Dr. Joke Wuestenbergs, doctor-specialist in judicial medicine, Dr. Anne Marcotte, judicial expert, and Mr. Gert De Boeck from the National Institute of Criminal and Criminology. They argue that the investigation of sexual aggression, which is carried out at the request of a judicial authority, should always have three objectives in mind. Firstly, the documenting of aggression in its entirety and not merely limiting it to sexual aggression; secondly, the gathering of evidence as the only objectively identifiable fact; thirdly, consideration should be given to disability or permanent psychological or physical injuries and to a possible pregnancy or sexually transmitted condition. At present, they argue, SAS is the only objective means that can support the story of the victim of sexual violence. As the previous speakers have said, there are major regional differences, such as the victim, who is interrogated, so to speak, between the dossiers, without any additional guidance. Work is also carried out, for example, depending on the availability of a prepared physician. In addition, there are differences in the transmission, preservation and analysis of SAS. The SAS should ensure uniformity, but we note that this is absolutely not the case. The conclusion of that day was that the decrease of the SAS test should be carried out by forensicly trained doctors in a room dedicated to the whole of aggression, but not only to the sexually related injuries, and to the consequences of the aggression. In line with what Mrs Lijnen said, which struck me horribly that day, it is true that a number of SAS tests are being carried out, but that a large part of them end up in the freezer and are therefore not being analysed. The last hearing took place with Mrs Joëlle Delmarcelle of SOS Viol and the ladies Muriel Salmona, psychologist and Judith Trinquart, law doctor. They gave you some figures that I don't want to remember. A survey conducted by Amnesty International shows the following results. To those Members who do not think this is an important subject, please listen to the following figures. Fifty-six percent of Belgians know of at least one person who has been or has been a victim of serious sexual violence; 46 percent of respondents, men and women, are or were victims of serious sexual violence; one in four women has ever been physically harassed in public spaces; 24.9% of women are or are still obliged to have sex with their partner or spouse; that is one fourth. Seven percent of respondents are sexually harassed or abused by an adult during childhood. Almost 25% of the female respondents who are or were exposed to that serious sexual violence trivialise that violence. Two out of six victims of serious sexual violence have never said anything about it and never done anything about it; they have kept quiet about it.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-12-54-plenair-ip152x.u118	These numbers were a blow to my face. We all need to think about that. What we learned on that day is that sexual violence has a devastating impact on health. Specialised medical and psychotherapeutic treatments should always be made available. Mr President, so much for the report. I repeat what Mrs Lijnen said. Because of the shocking figures and the shocking findings, we considered it important to report extensively on everything we have heard and included in our report. With your permission, Mr President, I shall now speak on behalf of my group. I'll start with some headlines from the past year: "You'd better be the rapist" -- "The DNA analysis after rape too shallow" -- "Which rapist, no criminal record" -- "Will raped women be taken seriously? Sexual violence in general and rape in particular remain a topic. If we look at the figures, Belgium actually scores badly in various respects. The UN Human Rights Council also believes that, because Belgium was called upon to do so already in 2011, and the government took a number of measures at that time, but that was apparently not enough and that is why, unfortunately, we are still among the poorest students of the class. The police record on average eight rapes a day and ten cases of sexual violence. Worrying figures, you might say, but unfortunately it's just the tip of the iceberg. After all, a lot of victims dare not mention at all what has happened to them. According to the Federal Police Security Monitor, about 90% of all sexual crimes remain silent. If the victim dares to state the facts, then it is also striking how little happens with them. Of the complaints 44 % is dropped and only 13 % runs out on a conviction. The latter figure is below the European average. This is partly due to the fact that the threshold to move to police or emergency services remains too high. The dark number, which both women's organisations, the police and the police are talking about, must be of great concern to us all. All these findings have led to the unanimous decision of the Social Emancipation Advisory Committee to make its first major theme during this period of rape. We have heard in the report that we have held a whole series of hearings. I will not repeat who we have all heard, but we have also looked at good practices abroad, as well as the Ministers of Justice, the Interior and Health, and the Secretary of State for Equal Opportunities were involved. I would just like to emphasise that, like Mrs Lijnen, I am particularly pleased that, on the basis of all that we have heard, we have decided across party boundaries to draw up a motion for a resolution, which was also adopted unanimously in committee across party boundaries. I would like to thank everyone for that. The most important thing is our call for the development of the multidisciplinary reference centres for sexual violence. I know Mrs. Sleurs is working on a pilot project. We would, of course, like to see such a reference centre set up in each province. With regard to the victim, we are in favour of the introduction of audiovisual interviews, as is already the case for minors. We also call for the legal and medical costs for the victim to be reimbursed and for the necessary conditions and modalities to be laid down. Ladies and gentlemen, I think this is particularly important, because people will only be raped, go to a doctor and be helped there, after which all the resulting medical costs will be for the victim himself. Another particularly important point in the motion for a resolution is the question of developing appropriate support and treatment for the offender. Of course, the victim must be properly surrounded and done justice, but we are all too often losing sight of the fact that there is also a perpetrator. It may not sound very sympathetic, but if we are well in favour of our society, we must also provide appropriate support and treatment for the offender both during and after detention, with a view to reintegration. We have also included in our motion for a resolution that the use of the Sexual Aggression Set should become compulsory and that police registration and reception should be improved. In the area of justice, we are asking to examine whether the limitation periods can be adjusted and to adapt the grounds for dismissing rape cases. I've pulled out a number of requests. There are many more in the proposal, but, as far as I am concerned, they are the most important ones. Our group will vote in favour of this motion for a resolution. However, I do not want to leave here without saying a few words of thanks. We have worked hard and I would first of all like to thank Mr Lijnen for his very pleasant cooperation, which has helped us a great deal. I would like to thank all my fellow Members across party boundaries for the constructive atmosphere in which the discussion took place. I would, of course, like to thank all the interveners in the hearings. Minister De Block, Minister Geens, Minister Jambon and Secretary of State Sleurs, also thank you for your cooperation. I think that on those days and today we all agree that we need to make progress on this matter. Last but not least, I would also like to thank the chairman of the Social Emancipation Advisory Committee, Mrs Winckel. I think she's had a lot of work to manage all of that. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote in favour of the text. I hope, of course, that you will do the same. Thanks for listening.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-12-54-plenair-ip152x.u119	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have here a detailed report from the Advisory Committee on Social Emancipation. I would also like to thank Mr Nele Lijnen and Mr Karin Jiroflée for the initiative and, in fact, all my fellow Members for their constructive cooperation. There is a motion for a resolution before us today, supported by all parties. That's an important signal. It is certainly so important that Secretary of State Elke Sleurs proposed an action plan against gender-based violence last year and has already started several things in order to tackle the fight against sexual violence in concrete terms. All this is undoubtedly important, still much needed and therefore a good thing. My fellow Members have stressed this sufficiently, and I will not repeat the concrete measures and all the people we have heard. I would like to point out one more thing. Ladies and gentlemen, when we come to a point, the battle will not be won here in Parliament. In any case, we will not only win this battle here and not just here. The fight against sexual violence and everything that comes with it must be won, above all, in the minds of all. We all have a responsibility in that. We must all help in this. Sexual violence destroys so much so quickly and is a widespread problem. Those who read newspapers see the theme pass almost daily, often in hallucinating contexts and in all degrees, here and there also with completely wrong reactions as a result. Only recently there was Ghent University, which wants to combat cross-border sexual behavior by putting pros in glass booths. That's the whole world upside down. I hope that everyone here agrees on that. There are also studies that show that a significant proportion of our men consider rapes acceptable or understandable in certain situations. Well, that's called sex without permission, in order to justify itself a little bit. Ladies and gentlemen, that is exactly the same. That's rape. Usually it's about very short articles in the newspaper with titles like "Girl with restriction raped in school and "Five years in prison for rape leading to suicide." The latter received, for the sake of clarity, six lines in the newspaper, which for me is proportional to the far too low penalty that was pronounced. Other titles are: child abuse in sport widespread...... Child abuse in the Church widespread..................................................................................................................................................... Unfortunately, I could go on for a very long time. For me and for many with me every article cuts through marrow and bone. The problem, however, is that the matter is completely ignored by at least as many people. Despite everything, the taboo is still large. This proves the large number of cases that are not reported. That also proves the large number of victims who never seek help. That also proves the large number of perpetrators without any sense of guilt. Forgive me for noticing this, but this also proves the sometimes unworldly sanctions that are pronounced in rape cases. We can continue to do so. Depending on the investigation and whether the dark number is taken into account, one woman in three in her life will face one or other form of sexual violence. I am also afraid that this figure is far too low. The reality is worse. The theme is a key issue in which we must never get used to it and which cannot be dealt with enough to really eliminate all taboos about it. It is only in this way that we can effectively tackle the problem in society by condemning it as one block in all areas and in all its forms, by making it clear to the victims that there is no blame on them, by saying to them that shame is not necessary, and that we condemn as one block what has happened to them, that nothing but nothing can justify that someone is unwanted to your body, by preventing it, but if it does not succeed, by clearly sending a signal to victims that there is also a way out, that it is not only necessary to stand in front of it and that it can be given a place if the necessary help and support is not possible. Please, come out with your story, report it and let you help. Sexual violence kills a lot of people very quickly. That can and must not be carried alone. In recent decades society has certainly taken steps to deal with child abuse, for example since the Dutroux case, abuse in the Church and so on. Before that period, there was hardly any discussion of this issue, let alone that it was addressed. Today, fortunately, we are closing our eyes a lot less, but we are not there yet. Also in dealing with sexual violence, initiatives such as "We do not exaggerate" or reportages such as "Femme de la rue" or "Femme de la rue" because it goes from small to large, fellow Members "Femme de la rue" or "Femme de la rue" or "Femme de la rue" or "Femme de la rue" or "Femme de la rue" or "Femme de la rue" or "Femme de la rue" or "Femme de la rue" or "Femme de la rue" or "Femme de la rue" or "Femme de la rue" or "Femme de la rue" or "Femme de la rue" or "Femme de la rue." Once again, we are doing so with numerous initiatives in Parliament and a resolution supported by all parties. We're not here yet. So be attentive to the debate, ladies and gentlemen. It is up to us as a society and as representatives of the people to prevent this from continuing in the same way and frequency for generations to come. So don't ever let us shut up about it. The resolution is fantastic, but it may and will not be an end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-12-54-plenair-ip152x.u120	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, Minister, the fight against all forms of violence is a real priority for my group. This violence against women, but also against men, must be fought constantly and forcefully, because it is really an essential element that enables us to work towards real equality between men and women. Since 2001, our country has already consolidated its policy on combating gender-based violence in various successive action plans. The last plan that Mrs Sleurs presented at the end of 2015 still needs to be implemented in many ways and we pay great attention to its effective implementation. Belgium also ratified the Istanbul Convention a few months ago, which is generally presented as the most advanced and comprehensive set of international standards for combating violence against women and domestic violence. Another important step has been taken. But now is not the time to give up. On the contrary, we must redouble our efforts and at all levels of power. We must continue to expand our efforts to combat violence against women and men, as well as to expand measures to address the specific violence of rape, honour killings and mutilation. It is precisely this specific violence that constitutes the rapes that we are dealing with today. This is a problem that deserves to be dealt with in the figures, even if my colleagues have already done so. These figures are instructive and instructive and, on their own, demonstrate the need for society as a whole to have a specific interest in this type of violence. Indeed, more than 16,000 cases of rape were recorded by the police between 2010 and 2014, or about 3,000 rapes per year. Every day, about ten rape victims file a complaint. I find that these numbers are cold in the back and remain far too high. Unfortunately, they represent only the visible face of the iceberg. Indeed, the black figure, that is to say, unrecorded acts of violence, is particularly high in our country. This represents more or less 90% of cases. In 90 per cent of cases, victims do not report to the police. Shame, fear, lack of confidence in the police and judicial system are the main reasons for the victims to remain silent, causing various traumas, which they will find difficult, if not ever, to get rid of. Also questioning the number of cases closed: more than 40 cases were closed in 2013 and only 14% of the cases resulted in a conviction. The motion for a resolution before us today is the result of a long work done in the Committee of Opinions on Social Empowerment, which I have the honour to chair. Our work began more than a year ago. In parallel to our work, the government is committed to establishing multidisciplinary reference centres for sexual violence. These structures should be linked to the hospital and to various medical, psychological, police and judicial services, with a view to simplifying procedures and, above all, improving the care of victims. Pilot projects are being announced for this year in the three regions of our country. From the outset, all members of our committee and my group fully supported this initiative. But it is essential for us that an adequate budget be allocated to these centres. An amendment to the text before you was in that direction. Unfortunately, the majority's partners did not follow us and did not consider it appropriate to vote in favour of this amendment, considering that the resolution proposed to you today was sufficiently clear on this point. However, you will admit that without an adequate and necessary budget, these centres will not be able to function. Given the enormous savings that this government has made, including in our health care and hospitals, we continue to have real concerns about this issue. Moreover, the decision to set up these centres effectively cannot be taken under this legislature. We deeply regret that. We therefore hope that the resolution presented today and supported by the Committee as a whole will ensure the continuation of this very important initiative for victims of sexual violence. Because it is these victims of rape that have been at the centre of all our work. I would like to take this opportunity to thank the dozens of people who have been interviewed and who have told us about their realities on the ground, both medically, judicially, policely and with regard to the accompaniment of victims or at the community level or at the criminal level. I thank the rapporteurs, Mrs Lijnen and Mrs Jiroflée, for all the work that has been done. I also thank our committee secretary, who has done an excellent job and the services of the House that have enabled us to work in excellent conditions. Indeed, all these hearings have enabled us to better identify the problem, analyse it, understand it and draw up new proposals in terms of the supervision and support of the victims but also of the perpetrators of violence. All this work has enabled us to produce proposals to improve the reception and the human and multidisciplinary care of victims, notably through the establishment of reference centres, but also through better use of the sexual assault set, full reimbursement of legal and medical costs and continuous training of professionals concerned with the problem. Proposals have also been made to improve the reporting and recording of cases of sexual violence, proposals to improve knowledge of the phenomenon through the collection of relevant data, proposals to improve or even restore victims' confidence in the justice system, including reducing the number of cases closed but also proposals to further increase awareness and prevention, in close collaboration with federated entities. But, ladies and gentlemen, let us be clear, the bulk of the work remains to come. This resolution will still have to be implemented by the government and, as with all resolutions, this House will be able to ensure that it is followed up. And this time, which is very positive, we have formally indicated in the text and we have planned that an evaluation will be carried out in this way every three years. And while Belgium is not a bad student in the fight against violence, not being a bad student is not enough in this context. What you need is to stay in the lead platoon. It is to have the most advanced legislation and tools to combat as effectively as possible all forms of gender-based violence, whether verbal, physical, sexual or economic. It is also to combat gender-based inequalities and discrimination, which are a major cause of violence against women. It also means adopting policies that do not create or exacerbate such inequalities and discrimination. Your government must be aware of this. Count on my group, the Secretary of State and the Minister, because many members of the government have arrangements to make in the context of the implementation of this resolution. As you will know, we will not wait for the evaluation report in three years to take stock of the situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-12-54-plenair-ip152x.u121	Mr President, the Minister of Health and Social Affairs, the Secretary of State for Equal Opportunities, ladies and gentlemen, the subject we are addressing today is obviously a much more global one. I would also like to thank the two rapporteurs. Even today, news shows that much remains to be done to achieve true gender equality. These efforts are to be made against women, because the small seed has not yet entered the heads of enough human beings, especially men, leading them to consider that women are truly equal to men. Of course, men and women are different but complementary. We're not even. The great work that must be done is that of equality. Only three days ago, an advertisement from the Walloon Region prompted the little girls to become a housekeeper day. It is already a sign that equality is not achieved in mentalities. Only when true equality is established will the system really be changed. Unfortunately, what is happening at the global level is still worrying: the attitudes, attitudes or statements of the new US Presidents, the Philippines and others make me say that there is more work than ever in this regard. I speak with the approval of former Minister Laurette Onkelinx. It is really in man that I want to speak in front of this assembly. In fact, it is first and foremost men who should be concerned about violence against women, not women, who are victims of violence against women. The men are responsible for it. At the limit, there should almost be only men who intervene to beat their octopus and find solutions. Our assembly is working against violence against women. Not later than this week, at the instigation of Mrs Kattrin Jadin, but with the support of other Members, the Committee on External Relations unanimously voted a resolution to that effect. I thank all the representatives, the majority and the opposition, who voted for it. We are making concrete progress. We are almost a model assembly, if I may say so. We're going step by step. But beyond this forum, we must constantly ensure that the consensus that we have found here is extended to society as a whole. I know it's a long-term job, but it's absolutely necessary. The terrible numbers of sexual violence in our country have already been recalled by my distinguished colleagues. In Belgium, one in four women has already experienced sexual violence. One in four women! Can you imagine? I think if one in four men had been sexually abused, other, faster means of action would have been taken. I want to pay attention to you all. This violence is carried out by an unknown person, a superior, a companion (unfortunately the most frequent case) or, when they were minors, by those responsible for their education. Unfortunately, still today, too few women dare to complain and complain. Recently, in France, Mrs Sauvage was fortunately – as I say clearly – given the presidential pardon by Mr Hollande. For 25 years, she had been the victim of repeated rapes by her husband. Her daughters were also victims. The mentalities being what they were, she had never filed a complaint. That's the big problem. This is a mistake, but one that is understood by the social context of the time. That's what we can't accept anymore. Today, as soon as there is violence, as soon as there is a slap, it is absolutely necessary that this lead to the filing of a complaint. Unfortunately, at first, women tend to accept, to think that they still love the man who does this. And then a chain is created, accompanied by fear, which means that, in the end, unacceptable behaviour is achieved. Therefore, the Advisory Committee for Social Emancipation, with the assistance of the Secretary of State, who regularly follows our work, decided to work under the auspices of our President, Fabienne Winckel, on concrete recommendations and measures to combat rape. I thank Nele Lijnen and her co-rapporteur, Karin Jiroflée, for the follow-up that has been done. We were not often numerous, but it is also for this reason that it is important, in plenary, to report on what has been done and, above all, as everyone has said, to ensure that what we are going to vote, I hope unanimously, can be followed by effects. Of course, as the Chair said, a report will be made every three years. But we will monitor the implementation of the actions to ensure that any declaration of aggression is made more easily, more effectively and that, above all, there is not a whole series of data losses as is currently the case. Indeed, violence against women, a phenomenon accepted, tolerated, when it is not valued as is still the case in some societies – in games, artistic expressions, such as the expression of jealousy, passion and virile impulses – expresses a relationship of domination of women by men, from the subjection of women's bodies to the will of men, in disregard of their physical and moral integrity. To the point of leading the victims to fear not being believed in the denunciation of the aggression they have suffered, to be ashamed, to live it throughout their lives, as a charge, like a taboo. Following numerous hearings of the medical, judicial, associative, police worlds – already authors of information brochures, manuals for professionals, booklets and informative websites – but also of the Ministers of the Interior, Justice, Public Health and Social Affairs as well as of Equal Opportunities – I thank all those who have been "audited" or who have come to give their opinion on this issue – the members of the advisory committee have worked to break this taboo, to offer a positive and easier outcome to sexually assaulted women and to increase the number of convictions of the perpetrators. Based on a comprehensive vision, they wanted to develop a roadmap. The reception of victims; the recording of their statements; the taking of evidence; the information and support of victims in their reconstruction efforts as a result of the violence suffered; the question of prevention, as well as the training of police officers and magistrates, of victim education services, of medical and paramedical personnel in emergency medical services; the improvement of judicial and police procedures, in support of the information gathered during the hearings, have been the subject of debates which have resulted in as many concrete proposals as our colleagues have put together in the motion for a resolution which is before you today for your approval. So I am not going to read them again, because my colleagues have made them clear. It is clear that campaigns to raise awareness and stimulate effective deposits will largely ensure that too many non-complaint situations are effectively monitored – nine out of ten cases, it is estimated. As you can see, ladies and gentlemen, the Social Emancipation Opinion Committee has drafted this report to reduce the number of sexual violence in our country. Indeed, from the moment they are better taken into account, we all hope that those who would like to commit them will no longer do so, either because they will feel compelled or because their mentality will change so that they will feel that the use of sexual violence is a shameful act. From this point of view, this motion for a resolution represents an important, if not considerable, step forward. We are aware that the resulting policy will have to be periodically evaluated and, if necessary, modified and improved to respond as effectively as possible to the objective of this text: to put an end to sexual violence. I am therefore pleased, on behalf of the MR Group, to have contributed, in full agreement with my colleagues on the opinion committee, to this major step forward in the resolution of the rape phenomenon. That is why we are asking you to adopt unanimously, I hope, this motion for a resolution, which is the result of consensual work between the members of the opinion committee, and which can only be strengthened by the support of all colleagues in this Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-12-54-plenair-ip152x.u122	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank all my fellow Members for their cooperation, and in particular my fellow Members Mr Lijnen and Mr Karin Jiroflée, who have worked very hard on the report. That can certainly be seen. Our group attaches great importance to the issue of rape. We've been doing that for 32 years. Thirty-two years ago, the first Secretary of State for Emancipation was appointed, Secretary of State Miet Smet. She was the first member of the government to put this issue on the agenda. Unfortunately, the reasons for putting this on the agenda are still the same today, because the issue of rape is under-exposed. Because the impact of rape on the victims is still underestimated, we have drafted this resolution. The reasons were the same 32 years ago. At the same time, we tried to take care of the victims as well and as quickly as possible. Furthermore, attempts were also made to catch, punish and treat the perpetrators. Today we have already considered many figures. It's shocking that there are still eight reports a day. There is also a dark number that remains underexposed. I think we should look ahead and not dwell too long on the figures. Above all, we need to see what we can do with a view to the future. I believe that the policy paper of Secretary of State Sleurs, who was half on violence against women, clearly shows that this government is taking this very seriously. What are the most important points for us? I will not go over everything, but I believe that the important points that we will make with this government, as a result of this resolution and also of the policy paper, should be highlighted here. I am thinking, first of all, of the creation of reference centres for sexual violence, the so-called SARCs. These are multidisciplinary centres where victims of sexual violence will be able to receive the first acute medical and psychological care. It is a pity that this is still not mainstream today and that this is still not happening in a good way. It is too often that the trace material is not adequately investigated, or that it is put in the refrigerator when examined. The Sexual Aggression Set was then pushed forward by Miet Smet as an instrument. It is a pity that it is still used so little in a good way, and when it is used, often not as evidence. In view of the important tasks that the SARCs will take on, we are looking forward to the three pilot projects that will hopefully start this year. We hope that this system will be deployed in all provinces and that every victim will be able to get very close and very accessible in a SARC for the necessary medical and psychological assistance and for the necessary police and legal assistance. This calls for cooperation between different ministers, but I think we are well on the way to setting up these SARCs. The proof of the puddingis in collaboration. It is important that different bodies work together. This requires a number of legislative measures, which we are working on today. I am thinking first of all of the fact that information from medical, psychological and police assistance must be shared. Today there is the professional secrecy that cannot be shared. Minister Geens and Secretary of State Sleurs also make this shared professional secrecy a priority. There is no point in working as a team when one cannot share one's own information. It is important to know that Minister None will change this. The legal framework for the shared professional secrecy will ensure that the interdisciplinary teams in the SARCs will be able to work effectively. A second important point that we would like to highlight, and which is also addressed by Minister Geens with the support of Secretary of State Sleurs, is the reform of the Criminal Code. That is in preparation and normally the results will be at the end of this year. Sexual criminal law is also being studied and consideration is being given to whether the criminal provisions and scope should be adapted when fundamental gaps appear. I want to get rid of the rumor that the limitation periods are not being considered. An overall vision will be developed that will be put forward in the framework of the reform of criminal proceedings by the end of 2017. A third important element is the work on prevention. I do not think that has been sufficiently highlighted. This is a partnership with the Länder. I think it is important to consult because prevention is an important part of the fight against violence. The shocking thing is that the most vulnerable are young people between 18 and 24 years of age. This is an important target group that we will have to work on. There is still work to be done in the area of sensitisation and declaration, and this calls for campaigns. I would like to conclude, ladies and gentlemen, because I have mentioned the key elements in which we want to make progress in the short term. I therefore hope that we will be able to evaluate this every two years, including in the advisory committee, as we propose. I hope that this supposedly forgotten problem will not be forgotten and that good progress will be made through our evaluation so that the victims, who have been through a nightmare and have to deal with trauma, can recover their lives and dream again.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-12-54-plenair-ip152x.u123	Colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, this is an important moment because it is the culmination of a long work done by members of the emancipation committee. Numerous hearings and exchanges have taken place, in a desire to involve parliamentarians from different political families. If this moment is so important, it is because it is incomprehensible that, in societies like ours, in a country like Belgium, there are still as many victims of sexual violence. These numbers are calling. I am not going to take back the ones that my colleagues have quoted, but one cannot help but think that every day ten people turn to a police station to report an attack. Despite this figure, 90 per cent of the victims of such violence do not go to the police station. It is known that only 14% of reports result in a conviction, and that 42% of complaints are closed without follow-up, often without sufficient motivation, and sometimes without full motivation. However, it is known that when a complaint is filed and the file is brought before the correctional court, 74% of complaints result in a conviction. This means that we must act politically, but also concretely, in a multidisciplinary and multi-directional manner. We are all the more obliged to do so because only a few months ago we ratified the Istanbul Convention, which obliges us to take action on this matter. A plan to combat gender-based violence 2015-2019 exists; it must therefore be implemented. That will be the challenge and challenge we face: to the present government, because these provisions will have to be implemented, as well as to plan and allocate sufficient budgets, but also to us parliamentarians, in order to assess and continue to focus attention on this issue as well as on the various actors involved in the measures to be taken. I would just like to point out that there is unanimous agreement that the trauma to sexual assault is not only physical but also psychological and social. The way in which the victim can survive and recover from such aggression will require that he/she address all his/her feelings of aggression, betrayal, because it is often close persons who commit such violence; it is also a sense of abandonment mixed with anger and fear of being abandoned by those around him/her. It constantly oscillates between loyalty, anger, a sense of abandonment and with a tarnished self-image and a lack of confidence in the other. If these traumas are not worked out with the victims, they are feelings and images of self and perception of the other that we will pass on to our children and to the generations that follow. Acting in this area is important not only for the victims but also because this work will have consequences at the societal level. Social support is also needed, because these people are not isolated. It is necessary to be able to maintain relationships, to recreate them sometimes, after having been victims of such an act. Among the measures that our resolution proposes are these interesting structures, namely the multidisciplinary reference centres. It is important not only to be able to test them but to develop them throughout the country. I would also like to stress the need, within the police and within the world of justice, to intervene as a matter of priority. We saw it in Liège at one point: there was a desire to consider these issues as priorities. There was immediate influence and impact in the number of cases processed, in the way they were handled and in the follow-up given to them. And then the attention relaxes. It is of course fundamental to consider that all the time these are priority dossiers, that the aim is to improve reception, training, information, the quality of the interviews and the accompaniment once you arrive in a police station. The need to provide continuous information to victims throughout the process, both in their contacts with the police and when they are confronted with the actors in the justice system, is also essential to maintain this confidence and to feel considered in what is happening to them. Among the interesting elements are the ability not only to use the kits, the SAS, but also to consider that we have a database and that these data must be analysed, classified in order to be able to meet one of the objectives pursued, namely to identify the authors. There is no point in having exhibits placed somewhere if they are not used to combat the phenomenon, identify and punish the perpetrators. The rankings without follow-up are unbearable, especially when there is no explanation. That is why this is one of the priorities that have been identified among the recommendations or requests that have been made to us and to the police. Particular attention should be paid to the types of persons particularly vulnerable to such attacks. We are all aware that a person with a disability is a person vulnerable to abusers. But what is more surprising, given the numbers that have been transmitted to us, is that young people and students are considered to be vulnerable and particularly victims of these attacks. There, of course, our responsibility is even greater because students, young people, represent a large part of the population. This really deserves attention to determine the types of young people, students at risk and what can be put in place between the different levels of power to act at this level. We need to better understand and know all these phenomena. The authors, of course, are also to be accompanied during the exercise of their sanction, but also after. Our goal is that they are not repeat offenders, which is still too often the case. Evaluation every two years in Parliament and in the opinion committee is essential since the phenomenon is difficult to accept. It is sometimes difficult to understand how to have too many of these acts of violence, how to be unable to respond satisfactorily for so long. We propose measures. It is therefore important to understand, at some point, what will make it work or not, what will have to be better analysed. I thank the ministers and colleagues for the collective work that has been done.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-12-54-plenair-ip152x.u124	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we will never repeat this enough: rape is unacceptable! This is a problem that should not exist. Yet we are obliged to look at the phenomenon, as it is common in our society, which is called civilized. Eleven rapes are reported every day. Today alone, ladies and gentlemen, while we are discussing this House, a number of them have occurred in Belgium and elsewhere in the world. Rape is a barbarity, whether it takes place inside or outside the family. It is, of course, all the more so in areas of conflict, when it is used as a weapon of war and destruction. Let us return, now, to the Belgian framework. That has been said, the figures are all the more alarming because they reflect only the tip of the iceberg. Very many cases are not listed because the shame of speaking about them and the fear of reprisals by the perpetrator(s) all too often prevent victims from denouncing them. The Social Emancipation Commission has considered this issue at length. It made it possible to put forward a motion for a resolution which was unanimously voted on. I hope she'll be here, too. This must be stressed to all the colleagues who have taken part in it. For the CDH, Vanessa Matz followed this file. You will allow me to speak on behalf of the Group. We share the proposed recommendations. I would like to highlight a few of them and put a greater focus on some of them. I'd like to start by thinking about the victims. Victims of rape should be encouraged to file complaints. In order to do so, they must be informed, supported and accompanied medically, psychologically, socially and financially, by taking care of all legal and medical costs. Immediately after the facts, the reception by doctors and the police is essential on the human level. These victims must be able to be accommodated in reference centres, as many of us have reminded us this afternoon. Minister, these reference centres need to be developed across the country and adequately funded. Clear procedures, to be defined in each structure, must frame reception and follow-up in order to avoid any procedural failure and thus any lack of support. Care must be taken to ensure that the victim is informed of the proceedings throughout the proceedings. After the victims, I would like to address the medical aspect. The training of all general practitioners on this issue and the use of the so-called "sexual assault kits" must be strengthened and generalized. I propose that we urge the Communities to include this training in university medical training. This is essential for a correct approach to the phenomenon and to avoid wasting valuable time, necessary for the collection of evidence and post-traumatic follow-up. In addition, the examination and follow-up of victims of various sexually transmitted diseases or possible pregnancy should be generalised. Let us now address the police and judicial aspects. The reception by police officers of victims of rape is always a delicate moment. Let us put ourselves first and above all in the place of these women. This reception should not depend on the presence of specialized staff at certain times and not on others. To this end, training of all police officers in the reception of victims of rape seems essential to us, if not during certain time slots, there will not necessarily be any police officers who are specifically trained for this purpose. It can no longer be said today that, in some cases, fortunately increasingly rare, the victim has been suspected of having provoked the facts herself, or of making a slanderous denunciation. In order to avoid the real and common risk of threats on the part of the perpetrators to the victims, we have tabled a bill stating that slanderous denunciation is conditioned by a motive of acquittal and dismissal, specifically indicating the absence of the commission of the offence. Colleagues, this bill has already been tabled, but I open it for signature. I had already sent it in its time and I suggest to the colleagues who have spoken out on the issue of rape in a clear way to take note of this proposal. If you are interested, you can join and co-sign it. We may be able to move it forward together in the Committee on Justice. If this seems important to me, it is because today the situation is regularly unfavourable to the victims. The balance between the two is not enough. Fewer than one victim in five would file a complaint, including fear of reprisal, or fear of being charged with slanderous reporting. The Opinion Committee for Social Emancipation also recommends that the authors be subjected to mandatory testing, that a system of profiling of potential authors be developed, and that appropriate support and treatment be developed, both during and after detention. Finally, I have no doubt that the committee responsible for drawing up the new Criminal Code will have this problem at its heart, and that it will define the appropriate sanctions that will allow for the absence of recidivism. Everything is said, but in conclusion, everything remains to be done. On behalf of my group, I would like the government to be able to implement these recommendations with all the seriousness required, as a result of the work done in committee. Indeed, minister, and I turn again to you, a number of operational measures must be taken directly by the government. Secondly, ladies and gentlemen of the various parties, both the majority and the opposition, there are some legislative recommendations. Many of them can certainly be carried by the government, but they could also be carried by Members of Parliament. In this case, parliamentary initiatives could be taken in agreement with this fine unanimity that we are witnessing today. We must pursue only one objective: to work towards a rapid improvement in the current situation, because the figures known, but also unknown, of rape and attempted rape attest to a particular indignity. I thank you and hope that we can, together, make concrete progress on this work.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-12-54-plenair-ip152x.u125	Mr President, I have heard the various speeches and went to congratulate Mrs Jiroflée. It is clear that our party will support this motion for a resolution. It is essential to be fully aware of the phenomenon of rape, which is global. In Belgium, new measures must be taken to combat it. I would add that it is regrettable that the amendment proposed by Mrs Winckel has not been accepted. For some initiatives, financial resources are needed. We'll see what happens later.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-12-54-plenair-ip152x.u126	I know that this is a motion for a resolution and that it is not customary for the government to take the floor, but I would naturally like to give the floor if it is requested.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-12-54-plenair-ip152x.u127	Mr President, I would like to thank everyone for their hard work on the Advisory Committee. There's been a lot of hearings. I would also like to thank Mrs Winckel very much for her work in the opinion committee. I would therefore like to express my thanks. Everyone knows that it is a great priority for me to tackle sexual violence in our society. I therefore welcome the fact that there is a great deal of unanimity across party boundaries. I take all the points to heart. Let us continue to work together in the fight against violence.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-12-54-plenair-ip152x.u128	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The meeting's over. The discussion is closed. No amendments were tabled or retabled. No amendments have been tabled or retabled. The vote on the motion for a resolution will take place later. The vote on the motion for a resolution will take place at a later stage.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-12-54-plenair-ip152x.u129	As a result of the imminent retirement of Mr Ignace Desomer, the plenary session of 8 December 2016 decided to appoint a new chairman of the Dutch Chamber of Auditors under the councils of this Chamber. Following the retirement of Mr Ignace Desomer, the plenary session of 8 December 2016 decided to appoint a new President of the Dutch Chamber of the Court of Auditors from among the members of this Chamber. The following application was submitted within the prescribed time limit: Ms Hilde François, Counselor in the Dutch Chamber. The following candidacy was submitted within the prescribed time limit: Mrs Hilde François, adviser to the Dutch Chamber. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 11 January 2017, Ms Hilde François's candidacy will be delivered to the political groups. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 11 January 2017, the candidature of Ms Hilde François will be forwarded to the political groups. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-12-54-plenair-ip152x.u130	The Government requested urgent procedure under Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure when submitting the following draft laws: The government requested urgency pursuant to rule 51 of the Rules when introducing the following bills: 1. Draft law reforming the financing of social security, No. 2229/1. 1. Draft law on the reform of the financing of social security, No. 2229/1. I propose that we take a stand on this request. Before that – it's a usual question – we need a motivation, Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-12-54-plenair-ip152x.u131	Mr President, the draft law on the financing of social security is a matter of urgency, as it was tabled. After all, the 2017 budget was also submitted on the basis of the draft. For example, the chapter on alternative financing of ONSS global management, INASTI global management and the health care system provides for payment in monthly instalments, no later than the 25th of each month. In addition, Chapter 4 on the balanced allocation of a social security scheme for employees and self-employed persons provides for the payment of these allocations in monthly instalments, not later than the 13th of each month. It was also stated in the opinion of the social partners that the new financing of social security was urgently needed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-12-54-plenair-ip152x.u132	It is not customary for us to debate this, but you will have two minutes, Mr Calvo.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-12-54-plenair-ip152x.u133	Mr President, I must say something. I have just established a broad consensus on the added value of the agreement reached today by the social partners. I regret that on the same day the majority is pouring oil on the fire by asking for the urgency of a draft law on which there is already a great deal of polemic within and outside this Parliament. We have read the open letter from the social partners on the financing of social security. We have had a very difficult start to the discussions in committee. Despite the government's action, agreement has been reached in committee on the first stage of the discussions and yet the urgency is being called for. In any case, our group will vote against it. This draft law deserves a serious discussion in committee and in plenary. I would ask that next Wednesday at the Conference of Presidents we look at how to deal with these three draft laws. This is getting really messy and there are also the provocations of the majority. To be honest, I can't taste much of this.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-12-54-plenair-ip152x.u134	I would suggest that we speak on this question. I propose that we take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-12-54-plenair-ip152x.u135	2. Draft Law amending the Law of 3 June 2007 on various employment provisions and the Law of 13 June 2014 implementing and controlling the application of the Maritime Labour Convention 2006, No. 2245/1. 2. Bill amending the Act of 3 June 2007 on various provisions relating to labour and the Act of 13 June 2014 on the implementation and monitoring of the Maritime Labour Convention 2006, No. 2245/1. I give the floor to Secretary of State Francken for the reasons.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-12-54-plenair-ip152x.u136	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Belgium has been a party to the 2006 International Maritime Labour Convention since 20 August 2013. The amendments to that Convention will enter into force internationally on 18 January 2017. This means that all ships flying the Belgian flag must be provided with two certificates on 18 January 2017 confirming that they comply with those international rules. However, such certificates can only be issued if there is a legal basis. In order to avoid flagging out ships, it is necessary to adopt the preliminary draft law as soon as possible before the amendments enter into force.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-12-54-plenair-ip152x.u137	I would suggest that we speak on this question. I propose that we take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-12-54-plenair-ip152x.u138	3. Draft law on workable and manoeuvrable work, No. 2247/1. 3. Bill concerning feasible and manageable work, No. 2247/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-12-54-plenair-ip152x.u139	Mr President, this is the draft law on manoeuvrable and workable work. The laws enter into force on 1 February 2017 and are the basis on which the interprofessional agreement can be concluded. The measures in both laws are also the basis for the forthcoming sectoral negotiations. As a result, they are urgently needed as a legal basis for the negotiations, which must be launched urgently, as we all know.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-12-54-plenair-ip152x.u140	Mr President, this is the second text – perhaps there will be a third one – on which the majority calls for urgency. These are texts which have been worked and commented on for a long time by the press, and which will change, change or change the functioning of social security, this important base in Belgium, this socio-economic stabilizer. We will try to convince the majority to change their intentions. We are challenging this request for urgency. This Tuesday, in the Committee on Social Affairs, it was necessary to fight in order to obtain, under conditions which will not be optimal, hearings which will take place tomorrow. This way of working is not respectful of all those affected by social security, nor of the social partners. A debate took place earlier on a new interprofessional agreement; many of our colleagues, the majority of them - almost all of them - welcomed the return of the dialogue between employers and workers and stressed its importance. By asking for urgency, and by working hastily, by legislating as badly, the majority again takes the risk of getting anger, the dysfunctions of our economy, the breakdown of social dialogue and social peace in our country. I ask colleagues not to vote urgently, to take the time to work on these texts properly and to hear the alternatives that we have to defend by our amendments.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-12-54-plenair-ip152x.u141	I would suggest that we speak on this question. I propose that we take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-12-54-plenair-ip152x.u142	4. Draft law amending the Law of 26 July 1996 on the promotion of employment and the preventive safeguarding of competitiveness, No. 2248/1. 4. Draft law amending the Act of 26 July 1996 on the promotion of employment and the preventive safeguard of competitiveness, No. 2248/1. The Government shall refer to the reasons given for the previous request for urgency. I would suggest that we speak on this question. I propose that we take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-12-54-plenair-ip152x.u143	The last distributed agenda contains a list of proposals for which consideration has been requested. You have taken note of the list of proposals for consideration in the agenda distributed to you. If there is no objection, I shall consider it adopted; in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, these proposals shall be sent to the committees responsible. If there are no comments on this subject, I will take it into account as a matter of fact and refer the proposals back to the relevant committees in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 11 January 2017, I also propose the proposal for a resolution (Mrs Olivier Maingain and Mr Stéphane Crusnière, Mrs Véronique Caprasse and Mr Daniel Senesael) on the clarification and termination of the pension scheme granted to Belgian former military collaborators of the German National Socialist regime during the Second World War, No. 2243/1, to be considered.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-12-54-plenair-ip152x.u144	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 11 January 2017, I also propose that you take into account the motion for a resolution (MM. Olivier Maingain and Stéphane Crusnière, Mrs Véronique Caprasse and Mr Daniel Senesael) to clarify and repeal the pension scheme granted to former Belgian military employees of the German national socialist regime during the Second World War, No. 2243/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-12-54-plenair-ip152x.u145	Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-12-54-plenair-ip152x.u146	Vote on Amendment No 2 of Barbara Beware of Article 2. (2141/7) Vote on Amendment No 2 by Barbara Not to Article 2. (2141/7) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes 5 Yes No. 134 No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 140 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 2 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 2 was adopted. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Vote on Amendment No 3 of Barbara Beware of Article 3. (2141/7) Vote on Amendment No 3 by Barbara Not to Article 3. (2141/7) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-12-54-plenair-ip152x.u147	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 6 by Catherine Fonck on article 3. (2141/8) Vote on Amendment No 6 by Catherine Fonck to Article 3. (2141/8) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 2) Yes 58 Yes No. 82 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 140 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 3 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 3 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 4 by Barbara Pas leaving out Article 4. (2141/7) Vote on amendment No. 4 by Barbara Not tending to delete article 4. (2141/7) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 3) Yes 5 Yes No. 135 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 140 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 4 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 4 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 5 by Barbara Beware of Article 5. (2141/7) Vote on Amendment No 5 by Barbara Not to Article 5. (2141/7) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-12-54-plenair-ip152x.u148	Consequently, the amendment was rejected and the Article 5 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 5 was adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-12-54-plenair-ip152x.u149	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes 82 Yes No. 50 No Abstentions 8 Abstensions Total 140 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (2141/9) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (2141/9) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-12-54-plenair-ip152x.u150	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 5) Yes 138 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 2 Abstensions Total 140 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (2119/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (2119/4) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-12-54-plenair-ip152x.u151	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 6) Yes 136 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 3 Abstensions Total 139 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (2120/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (2120/4) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-12-54-plenair-ip152x.u152	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / Fin du vote. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 7) Yes [[140]] Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 140 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (2121/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (2121/4)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-12-54-plenair-ip152x.u153	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 8) Yes [[140]] Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 140 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (2158/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (2158/4)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-12-54-plenair-ip152x.u154	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 9) Yes 139 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 139 Total As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (2159/4) Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (2159/4)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-12-54-plenair-ip152x.u155	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 10) Yes [[140]] Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total [[140]] Total As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (2160/4) Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (2160/4)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-12-54-plenair-ip152x.u156	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 11) Yes [[140]] Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total [[140]] Total Accordingly, the House adopted the motion for a resolution. This will be made known to the government. (2233/2) Consequently, the Court adopts the motion for a resolution. It will be notified to the government. (2233/2)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-12-54-plenair-ip152x.u157	We must proceed with the adoption of the agenda for Thursday 19 January 2017. We must proceed to the approval of the agenda of the sitting on Thursday, 19 January 2017. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] The agenda has been adopted. No observation? [[No]] The agenda was approved. The meeting is adjourned. Next sitting on Thursday 19 January 2017 at 2.15 p.m. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Thursday 19 January 2017 at 2.15 p.m.
