ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic575x.u1	Mr President, since the minister must leave us in an hour, I propose to turn my question No 16122 into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic575x.u2	Mr President, Minister, I actually prepared this question in the spirit of news that reached us a few weeks ago. It was due to the fact that Oussama Atar would have visited the brothers El Bakraoui in prisons in 2013 up to twenty times. I got that out of the press. I didn't get that from an official document. That's what got us thinking. Radicalisation and deradicalisation within the prison walls is a whole issue, a very complex task that everyone is trying to accomplish properly. On the other hand, we must also ensure that this radicalisation influence is not imported from the outside into these prisons. I have already mentioned several times in interventions the Kouachi brothers and Coulibaly. They have entered prison as ordinary little street criminals and left prison as Muslim terrorists. In this sense, my question concerns the right of visitors within the prisons. I have four questions. Minister, is there a ban on visiting certain persons in prison today? Is this prohibition legal? Or can this prohibition be imposed by a judge by means of a judgment or a judgment? Secondly, do internal guidelines exist within the prisons that prevent people from visiting? Thirdly, could you draw up guidelines prohibiting visits by certain persons? If yes, would it be possible to refuse a visit to an inmate persons on the consolidated OCAD list? Fourthly, in essence, is there at all the possibility of restricting access to prison by law, by means of internal rules of prison or a directive issued by yourself for certain persons or not?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic575x.u3	Mr President, the right of detention is governed by the provisions of Title V, Chapter III, of the Law of 12 January 2005, which is the basic law, in particular Articles 58 to 63. They state that the prisoners have standard visitation rights of blood and relatives in the straight line, the guardian, the spouse, the legally or factually cohabiting partner, the brothers, the sisters, the uncles and the aunts, after having demonstrated their capacity. The Director may provisionally deny these persons the right of visit where there are individualised indications that the visit could seriously endanger the maintenance of order or security. It is therefore obvious that the uninterrupted visit of these persons may also be temporarily restricted if, first, the visitor or inmate does not comply with the visit scheme, second, the visit brings in unauthorised objects or, third, the identity of the inmate is contraindicated for that type of visit. The Director must give the other visitors a visit. He may refuse such authorisation if the person concerned cannot demonstrate a legitimate interest or if there are individualised indications that the visit could endanger the maintenance of order or safety. All these provisions are contained in the internal rules of the prison, which also lay down rules of conduct to which visitors and detainees must comply and which may be sanctioned with a restriction or temporary suspension of the right of visit if they are not complied with. A decision to refuse to receive a visit from the persons referred to in your third question should be included in the provisions of the basic law cited above. You may therefore decide that the basic law does indeed contain provisions which may restrict visitation rights. Such decisions must of course comply with the general principles of that law, in particular that they are individualised decisions, limited in time and justified in accordance with the provisions of the Law of 29 July 1991 concerning the express reasons for the administrative acts.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic575x.u4	Mr President, Minister, you refer to the 2005 law. Can I conclude from this that there is no change in law or that the government is not playing with the idea of fine-tuning visitation rights? Will we simply maintain the rules that we have known for many years or are they being considered critically? That's another question I'll ask.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic575x.u5	Question No 15960 by Mrs Jadin is transformed into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Van Hecke; Mr Van Hecke; Mr Van Hecke; Mr Van Hecke; Mr Van Hecke; Mr Van Hecke; Mr Van Hecke; Mr Van Hecke; Mr Van Hecke; Mr Van Hecke; Mr Van Hecke; Mr Van Hecke; Mr Van Hecke; Mr Van Hecke; Mr Van Hecke; Mr Van Hecke; Mr Van Hecke; Mr Van Hecke; Mr Van Hecke; Mr Van Hecke; Mr Van
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic575x.u6	Minister, it is a public secret that the Palace of Justice on the Poelaert Square is a risk building that one enters at one's own risk. In the meantime, however, we know from the statements made by Mr Jean de Codt, first President of the Court of Cassation, that there are other dangers lurking in the building. There's a fire hazard and potentially even explosion risk. According to the statements made by the person concerned, there are about five tonnes of ammunition under the building as evidence, while the operating licence allows up to 450 kilograms. Furthermore, ammunition is stored in unsafe and even unlawful conditions. What are the rules for the storage of ammunition and the like in courthouses under the evidence? Who supervises compliance with these rules and who is responsible for any accidents? Do you know if there are similar problems in other courthouses? If so, which one? How will you deal with this problem, Minister?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic575x.u7	Mr President, Minister, it appeared in the press, also following the statements of the first President of the Court of Cassation, that explosives, bullets and detonators are stored at the Palais de Justice. It is more than 5 tonnes of ammunition that are housed there, whereas the operating licence is normally only valid for 450 kg. Moreover, the premises of the Palais de Justice do not have a secure system to ensure the preservation of these munitions in good conditions: inoperative security cameras, easy to crochet locks or lack of secure access. The country's first magistrate called for the evacuation of the equipment and envisaged no longer accepting ammunition in the service of the exhibits. The latter was particularly concerned about the potential risks of this situation, such as fires or explosions. It also appears that this situation should have been regularised before September 2016. Minister, how can you explain that the exhibit department at the Palais de Justice currently has more than 5 tons of ammunition, while the authorized limit is 450 kg? What solutions do you recommend in order to remedy this illegal situation? Is a move planned? If so, when will it be feasible? What are the safe places where ammunition could be housed? What does the Masterplan provide for in this regard? Are there any means available under the Masterplan to secure spaces for exhibits?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic575x.u8	Madame Özen, Mrs Lambrecht, in principle, seized cases are lodged in the Registry of the Correctional Court, where a Registrar is responsible for detention. Neither the prosecutor nor the investigating judge is, moreover, obliged to file the seized case at the Registry. This may also be retained at the place of seizure, transferred to DOVO in other police depots or for security reasons, depending on the nature of the seized case. In particular, with regard to the disposal and destruction of ammunition and explosives, the procedure is that there should always be recourse to the Defence Demining Service. To this end, a protocol was concluded between Defence, Home Affairs and Justice on 23 December 2014. The Protocol shall apply for an indefinite period and shall lay down the practical arrangements for recourse to DOVO by the Registrar for the disposal and destruction of small-caliber ammunition. That protocol is known to the College of Public Prosecutors and to the College of Courts and Courts. As far as the situation in Brussels is concerned, much of the ammunition in P1 is well stored in suitable and reinforced cabinets in a separate, closed and well-secured room. In view of the large quantity, this suitable storage place does not apply to all the 5 tons of ammunition mentioned by the first president of the Court of Cassation. Rather than providing cabinets or additional space, investment is needed in the evacuation of these munitions. On the basis of this protocol for the evacuation of ammunition for which the Public Prosecutor's Office has already taken a clearance and destruction decision, the French-speaking court of first instance may therefore contact the Defence Demining Service to plan the destruction. In addition, since 2014, the King's Prosecutor may, at any stage of the proceedings, order the destruction of certain seized property, for example, if storage may involve a serious risk and thus more easily anticipate dangerous storage situations. Judicial bodies must therefore also make full use of these working instruments available to them. Finally, I would like to stress that it remains one of the priorities of my policy that the maximum possible prevention of dangerous substances such as drugs, chemical reagents, ammunition and weapons should be avoided within the walls of a courthouse. For several years there has been a sense of awareness in order to improve and monitor, in a more broad sense, the influx of beliefs, the way in which they are preserved and their outflow. However, this process of sensitisation takes time. The creation of more central and more secure depots per district for the preservation of less dangerous beliefs is another additional initiative for better control of the beliefs. This will also be included in the Court Buildings Master Plan. Work is being carried out on the traceability of the beliefs through the PACOS application. All these measures should support the judicial authorities to develop a dynamic management of the seized cases and evidence of conviction.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic575x.u9	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic575x.u10	Mr President, Minister, thank you for all the explanations you have given. You say that a Memorandum of Understanding was signed between the Interior and Justice in 2014 to raise awareness of the need for secure cabinets, etc. But, in my opinion, the goal is the destruction of these munitions. The policy must be carried out in the same way as the drug policy. There are heavy weapons, explosives that pose a danger. Store them in cabinets doesn't make sense. It has a cost because it takes place. As was noted during the INCC fire, even if there are secure cabinets, the safety of those working in these places is not ensured. It is unacceptable to leave things as they are. In any event, I have still not received an answer to my question. Storage at the police level will not solve the problem. It is simply necessary to destroy the ammunition.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic575x.u11	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic575x.u12	Unless there's DNA.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic575x.u13	[[....]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic575x.u14	How do you explain the presence of 5 tons of ammunition, minister?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic575x.u15	The question should not only be asked of me, ma'am. I hope it's not up to me to "get rid of them."
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic575x.u16	I can understand that, for one part, the cases are still ongoing and DNA traces must eventually be sought, but in the other cases, destruction is necessary since we are illegal. Let me remind you that the 450 kg are out of date. This is your responsibility.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic575x.u17	In recent days, Minister, the written press has discussed in detail the release under conditions of a kindergarten leader condemned for various very serious facts of paedophilia. The judge had imposed a six-year prison sentence on the husband and a five-year posting of the criminal execution court. The commotion was about the fact that after 2 years, i.e. after one third of the sentence imposed, in accordance with the legal provisions, the person concerned was released by the criminal enforcement court, albeit under conditions. Since one of these conditions, namely treatment in a specialised institution, cannot be achieved for the time being, the man must remain in prison. Minister, do you not consider that there is a discrepancy between, on the one hand, the punishment handed down by the judge of the facts and, on the other hand, the rapid early release after a third of the sentence in a serious case of paedophilia? Can you agree that such cases undermine the credibility of prison sentences? Is it normal to decide that someone should be released, but should stay in jail, because one of the conditions for release cannot be fulfilled?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic575x.u18	Ms Lambrecht, under the law of 17 May 2006 on the external legal status of convicted persons, it is possible that the criminal execution court may, from the execution of a third of the sentence, release a sentenced person on a conditional basis, unless it is a conviction in the state of a certain repetition. In doing so, that multidisciplinary court shall thoroughly examine whether there is an adequate reclassification plan and whether there are no counter-indications, such as the risk that the convicted person will commit new facts, will worry the victims or will withdraw from the control of the public prosecutor, the police and/or the courthouses. In 2006, precisely because of the credibility of the criminal chain, the legislator intended to grant the early release decisions to a court in the execution of the sentence, because the nature and duration of the sentence is indeed being dealt with by a court on the merits. By the way, the law explicitly defines conditional release as a mode of execution of the sentence, as the convicted person must comply with conditions during the probationary period. In my recent plan to recodify the codes of conduct, I proposed that the time conditions for early release should, in principle, be reduced to half the sentence. With regard to your last question, the granting of penalties does not mean that it starts immediately. The judgment shall be enforceable as soon as it has become res judicata and at the earliest from the time when the sentenced person fulfils the time conditions for the release granted. However, the criminal court may set a later date by determining a condition to be fulfilled first. Where the prior conditions are met, the Director shall immediately inform the President of the criminal enforcement court and shall wait until the court confirms that the decision is enforceable. So it's not unusual for that to happen.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic575x.u19	Mr Minister, I find it very unusual to release a nuclear paedophile and decide that he should be treated psychologically, after which the person concerned should remain in prison, because the condition cannot be met.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic575x.u20	Mr President, Minister, geographically speaking I am closer to Club Bruges than I am to Anderlecht, but that is not why I am asking the question. My concern is for match fixing. Minister, I have already questioned you about this in this committee. You replied that wagering on your own matches by a captain, a player or a coach of a football team is prohibited by Article 4 (3) of the Gaming Act, which clearly determines how one can influence the result of the game in question. Perpetrators of an infringement of the provision of Article 4 (3) shall be punished by a prison sentence of six months to five years and a fine of one hundred to one hundred thousand euros, multiplied by death sentences. On 18 January 2017, quite recently, the Gaming Commission announced that it intended to impose a fine of one hundred thousand euros each on Anderlecht player Olivier Deschacht and his brother Xavier for their illegal gambling behaviour. The story of Deschacht has had many twists and turns in the past few months. In September 2016 they investigated to what extent he would have gambled several consecutive seasons at football matches, including occasionally matches of his own team. At first he denied everything, then it was his brother, then it wasn't at his own games, then it was only at profit and then it was at matches in which he himself was drafted. He used nicknames and had passed on accounts. Then it became known that he had effectively gambled at his own games, even on loss. This is prohibited not only by criminal law, but also by collective bargaining agreements concluded with the players' associations, by individual contracts of employment and by the association regulations of the Football Association. Ludwig Sneyers from the Pro League has also announced such a thing. The Ghent department of the East Flemish parquet established infringements in December 2016. They got the file from the Gaming Commission. According to Article 15/1, § 2; of the Gaming Act, it was examined whether the Gaming Commission could determine an administrative fine for infringements prevented by the Public Prosecutor. It has now set the administrative fine at EUR 100 000 per person. The parquet and the Gaming Commission acted fairly quickly in this. The player will be subject to the penalty in the same season as the infringements have been detected. I also read that the Chairman of the Gaming Commission had already announced in October, when the matter became known, that he and you, the Pro League and authorised legal operators would examine the extent to which betting at their own competitions for top sportsmen could be better prevented or fought. I have a number of questions about this. First of all, are the investigations into gambling footballers or top athletes, after all, I'm not just talking about football, it's mainly about football, but in the past there were also cases in tennis and other sports in 2016 that led to an administrative penalty? How many people were they talking about? What was the penalty imposed? Was it also paid or was she later challenged? Secondly, have there been findings based on the surveys on Olivier Deschacht and other gambling professional footballers that have led to the approximation, clarification or stricter application of the legislation? I am thinking, for example, of the use of nicknames, the obligation to log in with an eID to make it difficult to pass on the accounts and so on. Thirdly, have agreements been made with the Gaming Commission...............................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic575x.u21	Mr President, Mr Vermeulen, in 2016 several investigations were conducted into top athletes who gambled on competitions on which they could have a direct influence. For each of these cases, the competent prosecutor stated that without questioning the existence of the infringement, no action would be taken on the facts and that the Gaming Commission could proceed with the imposition of an administrative fine in accordance with Article 15/3 of the Gaming Act. In 2016, penalty proceedings against four persons were initiated with a view to imposing administrative fines. At the session of 18 January 2017, it was decided to initiate a sanction procedure against Olivier and Xavier Deschacht. In the meantime, three persons were fined an effective administrative fine of EUR 3 000. The other sanction procedures are still in progress. In the meantime, one of the top sportsmen involved paid the administrative fine. The other two who were imposed an administrative fine are still within the time limit within which an appeal can be lodged. It is not known whether these players will do the same. A good identification of players transcends the investigation of this case. Their business plan was approved in December 2015. The identification problems must be resolved by the end of this year. In the meantime, the cooperation with the Privacy Commission has started. Many operators are already taking the necessary steps to improve the quality of the profiles. The use of eID is currently not discussed because the operators should then be allowed by the Privacy Commission to capture and forward the personal data in general and the National Registry Number in particular. There is a growing awareness in Belgium that the approach to match fixing can best be multidisciplinary. This led to a collection of all actors around this phenomenon in advance by Interpol and the National Olympic Committee on 22 April last year. As Minister of Justice, I am involved through the Public Prosecutor's Office, the Gaming Commission and my Administration Legislation, which have been working on this phenomenon for some time now. The Federal Government and the Communities signed the STCE 215 Convention on 29 November 2016 in Budapest. On 16 December 2016, the declaration of intent setting up the National Platform for Matchfixing was already made here. The aim is to organise a structural dialogue between all the actors involved, to draw up an action plan, to exchange best practices and to agree on an integrated, preventive and repressive approach. Be part of the National Platform: the federal police, the Football Cell, the Administration Legislation of the FOD, the Public Prosecutor, the Gaming Commission, the Communities, Adeps, Agency Sport Flanders and the German-speaking Community, and some sports federations.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic575x.u22	Thank you, Minister, for your comprehensive and detailed reply. On a number of points, I am not following you very closely because the infringements you are referring to are related to match fixing, which means exceeding the gaming legislation for the purpose of committing fraud. In the case of Olivier Deschacht, it seems clear to me that he has broken the law. I would actually like to detect things as early as possible. As far as identity is concerned, the highest possible quality requirements must be achieved in order to avoid the possibility of matching fixing. Match fixing should be limited to the illegal circuit and should not occur in the legal circuit of the gakoperators.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic575x.u23	Mr President, Minister, the King's prosecutors today have the legal opportunity to propose training as an alternative to the so-called immediate perception system, mainly used in the case of speeding. The Minister of Mobility, Mr Bellot, whom I took care to question, told me that there was a royal decree governing this activity and that it would be published after the new system of collecting fines on which the FPS Justice is working, a system called "Cross-border exchange". I therefore allow myself – logically – to question you since the Justice FPS, if I understood correctly, is rather you. We are told that the service will be operational as of July 1, 2017. You see, I'm already making you think about the holidays that are approaching! Pending these royal orders, several prosecutors continue to propose this alternative as originally set up and as persuaded the legislator to generalize it. It's a system that works well. I went to the field. Minister, can you confirm to us that this system under development will directly integrate the possibility for the King's prosecutors to propose an alternative to the payment of the fine, therefore to the immediate perception, in this case training for a change of behaviour? We know that the most important thing in this area is to take the problem into account by yourself. Ab absurdo, if this were not the case, would this not mean that the law can no longer be applied since de facto prosecutors would in fact no longer have a technical opportunity to offer such training?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic575x.u24	Mr President, Mr Cheron, the Cross-border project provides for a better collection of road fines. It was decided to simplify as much as possible the procedure for managing fines in Belgium and to avoid having two parallel procedures for offences committed by Belgian offenders and those committed by European foreign offenders. The implementation of the system of collection of international fines has been used to modify the procedure for managing the collection of national fines and to introduce a single system applicable to fines incurred by Belgian offenders as well as those incurred by European foreign offenders. There is no explicit provision for alternative measures because this is not related to the objective. The current regulations will remain in place until my colleague, Minister Bellot, finalizes his draft royal order. Prosecutors will therefore be able to continue to propose alternative measures if they deem it appropriate. One does not exclude the other at all.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic575x.u25	Mr President, I thank the Minister for his answer. I will certainly return to the Minister of Mobility by ensuring that he has immediately received the same response from the Minister of Justice, so that he can actually act on the ground and have the same purpose. You see the difficulty: prosecutors must be well aware that the system is always possible and allowed, and that in the future they can always have the possibility of using this system of training in the field. From a pedagogical point of view, it is, in my opinion, very useful.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic575x.u26	Minister, in De Tijd of 17 January, I read that your provincial and party colleague Carl Devlae, former Secretary of State, spoke quite sharply about the functioning of the Gaming Commission. He noted that in recent years the Gaming Commission has been acting as a stimulator rather than as a regulator and more concerned about the profitability of the licensed gakoperators than about the protection of the player. Carl Devla gave some concrete examples of what he himself called dramatic situations. Many licensed websites would offer casino games as well as bets. That would be allowed blindly, although it is forbidden by law. Furthermore, there is still no implementing decision defining the online playing limits. In addition, since fictitious data can open a player's account, the control of the age of the online gamblers is inadequate. Finally, the Gaming Commission would deal too laxly with gambling advertising. Of course, there has been a structural personnel problem in the Gaming Commission for a very long time. The number of staff also decreased every year since 2011. Each year, however, an alarming report is published about the staff shortage and the financial deficit in the gambling committee. In fact, the problems of the Game Commission arose in 2010, the year in which a legislative amendment was introduced which more than doubled the tasks of the Game Commission. However, from that point on, the organisation was also expected to oversee the huge sector of betting and online casino services, without any additional resources to carry out those tasks. This is also reflected in the annual report of the Gaming Commission about every year. In the 2015 Annual Report, the following statement was made: "In the area of human resources, the KSC faced a difficult task in 2015. Despite the doubling of the task package and the increase in revenue and budgetary surpluses, the KSC was in a situation in which investments have not been made for several years. The realization grew that the time has come to evolve as a KSC into an independent statute. In 2015, the KSC was no longer able to fulfil all its core tasks, such as the protection of players and the control of the legal and illegal gambling sector. However, the undersized investment for many years remained unnoticed by the outside world, thanks to the secretariat which, despite the difficulties, continued to be very committed." I'm not the only one who's already asked questions about the Gaming Commission. Mr Thiébaut also did so. In reply to his written question No 712, you pointed out that there would be structural funding from the Gaming Commission in the 2016 budget through a fund with a recurrent amount of EUR 610 000 in credits.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic575x.u27	In addition, the people of the ACOD said that they are not always my friends, but here they have a point: the Gaming Commission must not be paralyzed. If we want to assign tasks to the Gaming Commission, we must, of course, also have the staff and resources to do so. It is also necessary to ensure that the sector can be adequately regulated. Do you share Mr Devla's view that the Gaming Commission is not sufficiently focused on its tasks and is more concerned about the interests of the gakoperators? Do you also experience dramatic conditions in the gambling sector? If so, how will you remedy this? How did the staff at the Secretariat of the Gaming Commission evolve in 2016? The annual report is, of course, not yet known. Is there sufficient staff to be able to continue carrying out the tasks? You have announced additional appropriations for EUR 610 000. Have you been able to trust them effectively in 2016? Is that enough to cover the financial deficit and the staff shortage? Do you think the Gaming Commission is not doing its job properly? Do you think that she is responsible for the abuses, which she herself mentions in her annual reports?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic575x.u28	Mr Vermeulen, as regards your first two questions, since my appointment I have asked for the cooperation of the Gaming Commission on a first package of measures to protect the player. I am thinking in particular of making the identification of the players and the players' accounts, especially as regards online gambling, the restriction of gambling advertising, the reduction of the number of betting offices and a protective regulatory framework for the virtual betting that has been tolerated by the Gaming Commission since 2012, without any regulatory basis. In addition, I have asked for an urgent update of the Internet KBs. Indeed, they were recorded in 2010 but never taken, so that regulatory work can be finalized to cope with the evolution in the online gambling market that has been growing since 2010. The interkabinette work on these issues has started since December 2016, with the intention of completing a first package of measures in the spring. The Gaming Commission gives its full cooperation. As regards your third question, compared to 2015, the Secretariat of the Gaming Commission noted a decrease in its staff of two staff to 33 in 2016. In addition, two seconded police officers are active in the secretariat. In the context of the interdepartmental commission on terrorism and deradicalisation, two police officers are invited to attend the gambling committee. No other recruitment initiatives took place in 2016. Today, the Gaming Commission lacks accurate know-how in relation to Internet games, betting, the administrative handling of permits D and the control activities in the field. On your fourth question, I can say that in 2016 when the organic funds were reformed, an amount of EUR 610 000 was added to the fund of the Gaming Commission from the FPS Economy's Gaming Fund, which was unified by the Programme Act of 26 December 2015. In addition, the expenditure ceiling of the Gaming Fund at the FPS Justice was compared with the annual expected revenue, which resulted in an increase in the expenditure ceiling compared to 2015, for an amount of 2,565 million euros. Thanks to the additional funds from the fees generated by the Technical Cell of the Game Commission, and the increased expenditure ceiling, I support the Game Commission in increasing its staff in terms of monitoring the online gambling market and developing a close player account system. As it concerns the recruitment of ICT profiles, it will not be easy to find the right profiles in the labour market. However, the solution lies not only in the recruitment of additional staff, but also in the reorganisation of the regulations, which should become more complete and more focused on the strict organisation of the exceptions to the ban on gambling in cooperation with the gambling sector. As far as your fifth question is concerned, the Gaming Commission will be reasserted so that it becomes more effective in the management and policy of the gambling market in order to protect the player. After that, consideration will be given, with six competent ministers, to an organizationally more efficient embedding of these activities in the federal government landscape, so that the gambling market can be regulated and controlled more effectively, now that the online market has evolved so strongly since 2010.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic575x.u29	Thank you, Minister. I hear reassuring things when you announce the new composition and opt for reorganisation, both in terms of regulation and organisation itself, in order to work as efficiently as possible. Of course, one of the things that always comes back is that one can no longer carry out one's tasks, because savings are being made. I don't agree with that at all. In the case of savings, priority must be given to the core tasks and to ensuring that they are carried out as effectively as possible. If there are tasks other than the core tasks, which are legally defined, then of course we must ensure that there are sufficient resources to do so. The biggest challenge is indeed not in the classic gambling pattern but in the online gambling pattern. There is also the risk and ease of internet access to illegal gambling agencies, including in this country. However, I have heard that you will work well on this. I will certainly ask you about this in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic575x.u30	Minister, since 1 January 2005, the ordinary and special laws of 2 May 1995 on the obligation to submit a list of mandates, posts and professions as well as a statement of assets and the ordinary and special implementing laws of 26 June 2004 have been in force. These laws are based on the principle that a well-functioning democracy only works through sufficient transparency and through the principle of equal treatment. The obligation to submit a list of mandates also gives the citizen the opportunity to check where a mandating officer is represented. As a result, it is a means to avoid the appearance of conflict of interest. Both the Staatsblad and the specialized website www.cumulaeo.be provide information on the mandates of each person subject to the above mentioned laws. The law provides for criminal sanctions of between EUR 600 and EUR 6 000 for any negligence regarding the submission of a mandate list or asset declaration. The annual report of the Court of Auditors shall indicate each year how many persons were subject to a declaration and how many persons did not submit a list of mandates or no statement of assets. In May 2015, the Court of Auditors published its annual report 2014. In the chapter "Ten years of monitoring of the submission of mandate lists and asset declarations', the Court of Auditors says that the public prosecutor is automatically aware of the violations by publishing the lists that have not submitted a mandate list or a capital declaration, but that it does not usually receive information about the prosecutions that the public prosecutor has instituted. It also concluded that criminal prosecution is mainly fragmentary and that it cannot rule on the opportunity of criminal sanctions. It cannot therefore answer the question of whether administrative sanctions would be more effective. What I know from answers to previous questions and from reports from the Court of Auditors is that the number of prosecutions and convictions is very limited. I have already put a number of questions to the Prime Minister. With regard to the problem of linking a criminal sanction to the submission of a mandate list or asset declaration, we wondered whether it is not necessary to impose administrative sanctions. I would like to ask you a number of questions about this. In how many cases did the prosecutor prosecute in 2015 and 2016 for wrongly not submitting a mandate list and/or asset statement? In how many cases has a conviction been pronounced and what fines have been linked to it? Were they cashed yet? Do you think it is a good idea to replace, in whole or in part, the criminal sanction with or supplement it with an administrative sanction under certain conditions? In what direction do you see that? Would you support any parliamentary initiative? Do you think that the above-mentioned laws of 2 May 1995 and 26 June 2004 should be amended in order to ensure better compliance? Apart from any legislative amendment, do you have any other proposals to improve compliance with these laws?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic575x.u31	Mr Vermeulen, as part of an oral question, the College of Attorneys-General cannot provide the figures as a result of the associated workload. There are also no specific guidelines for criminal prosecution policy in this area. As far as the criminalisation itself is concerned, I am in general favour of not penalising infringements, which would no longer be punishable, but of enforcing them by civil or administrative means. However, the legislator has in the past considered that a penalty should be imposed on the failure to comply with the obligation to make a declaration. This earlier choice may be questioned, given the priorities of criminal policy, available capacity and whether criminal law is the right instrument. Indeed, in some cases of non-declaration, it is a question of negligence or ignorance, which the person liable for the declaration is not guilty of. I think it would be useful, in the context of the future discussions of the new penal code, to review this particular criminal law.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic575x.u32	Minister, I found it particularly suspicious that an earlier written question was not answered. I asked about the number of cases concerning this matter and the possible number of convictions. I am sorry that no figures can be given on this because of the workload. I regret the choice made at the time by the legislator to opt only for a criminal law approach. I agree with you that we need to question this choice very thoroughly and see how this can be improved. I leave in the middle whether an amendment to the Criminal Code is necessary for this purpose. I'd rather opt for a different approach. You also pointed out just now that it was mainly about administrative negligence, forgetfulness and previous limited numbers. In order to ensure that the legislation is properly complied with without having a severe impact on the court, I would opt for a different, faster approach that does not need to be repressive immediately.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic575x.u33	Mr. President, Minister, the Order of French- and German-speaking Bar Associations has recently criticized the new law on the collection and retention of telecommunications data. Voted in May 2016 and published in the Belgian Monitor a few months later, the new legislation would not satisfy lawyers, who see there violations of citizens' privacy and professional secrecy governing the relationship between a lawyer and his client. For these reasons, they brought a new action for annulment before the Constitutional Court. In this connection, I quote the President of Avocats.be, who said in a well-known newspaper, despite the annulment of the first law: "The Belgian legislator has stubbornly reintroduced a new law that does not take into account the criticisms made by the Constitutional Court. The only advances are related to the access arrangements of the authorities and to the arrangements for the retention and security of data." Notwithstanding the constitutional court's respect for this case, I would like to take stock of this issue. Can you provide us with an overview of this case, including in the light of the evaluation of the data by the European Court of Justice? Are there any discussions between your firm and the representatives of the aforementioned bar, but also with those of the League of Human Rights, which also seems to have brought legal proceedings? If so, what is the state of these? What elements were presented to them to reassure them of the government's approach and, therefore, the relevance of the voted framework?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic575x.u34	Mr President, the Member of the European Parliament, the League for Human Rights and Lawyers.be had already expressed their criticism of the new law and the appeal is not a surprise. My firm is always ready to discuss with the various actors, but we have not had a request to do so. The criticisms of these organizations are well known and have been taken into account. The government and parliament have debated this issue, the option that has been taken is to maintain the principle of data retention, but with strengthened guarantees regarding access to and security of data. Both organizations challenge the very principle of data retention. The Privacy Commission and the Council of State did not question this principle, but instead confirmed the approach taken in what led to a new Data resonant law. In a recent case, the Advocate General at the European Court of Justice has also broadly confirmed the validity of this approach. The new element in this case is not so much the appeal to the Constitutional Court but much more the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union of 22 December last in two cases, one British and the other Swedish. I spoke to him in the plenary session of Parliament on 22 December. It will undoubtedly influence the position of the Belgian Constitutional Court. In this judgment, the European Court of Justice departs, which is quite rare, from the Advocate General's view and is more restrictive. All our main European partners are concerned because they all have legislation similar to ours. Our experts are therefore in contact to determine the scope of the judgment and to see whether and how to amend the legislation. I also asked to discuss this directly with the other Justice Ministers at this week's Informal Justice and Home Affairs Council in Malta. The file therefore remains the subject of intense work. He's holding my full attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic575x.u35	Minister, thank you for your answers. We will, of course, remain attentive to this issue, which is expected to evolve further in the coming days.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic575x.u36	Question No 15765 by Mrs Kattrin Jadin is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic575x.u37	Mr President, Minister, a great deal of ink has already flowed into our system of deputy judges. Opinions were issued by the Supreme Court of Justice, including in 2006 and 2011. These were critical opinions on the system. It is still the case today that alternates in certain courts are essential to ensure continuity of service. The remuneration of alternates shall be governed by Article 378 et seq. of the Civil Code and shall be provided for only in certain cases. Alternates would also not be insured against accidents at work, for example. Some say that the role of deputy judge is mainly used to have free magistrates. In addition, alternates who last until the retirement age of 67 years will only be retiring honorably if they submit an application to the FPS Justice in advance. However, the way in which this should be done is not known, so many alternates do not take that initiative or forget it and note that, after many years of free service to the Justice Department, they are listed in the Belgian Official Journal as redundancies. As regards the deputy judges, an advisory report has recently been issued by the GRECO, set up by the Council of Europe. It states, among other things, that, following a previous report, our country was called upon to improve the conditions for being a deputy judge. It is now noted that this has not happened. By the end of October, Belgium should present a new report setting out the progress made in this respect. Minister, how do you respond to the criticism regarding the remuneration of alternate judges? Secondly, is it true that alternates do not have insurance? Thirdly, is the course drawn up on the issue of retirement or dismissal of alternates correct? Is there any improvement in this respect? Fourthly, how do you respond to the latest criticism by GRECO within the Council of Europe?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic575x.u38	Mr President, Mrs Lahaye-Battheu, since both questions refer to alternate judges, they have been merged. In practice, the measure allowing magistrates to remain a deputy magistrate after retirement is often applied in a number of jurisdictions. Some magistrates who are thus deployed perform almost daily. In other cases, it is either punctual or sporadic performance. In 2015, the measure was extended to magistrates who retired early. Since this is a very recent possibility, it is difficult to determine whether there is a direct correlation with reducing the legal backlog. Moreover, the ratio legis was primarily the knowledge and expertise of the magistrates even after their retirement to be able to use for the benefit of the judicial order, if they are willing to do so themselves. Secondly, the appointment as deputy magistrate can be renewed twice until the person concerned reaches the age of 70. As it is a recent measure, no statistical data are available until these substitute magistrates remain in operation. In practice, this usually depends directly on the specific situation, the nature of the tasks, the functional needs and the workload within the jurisdiction, when they are designated as deputy magistrate. The remuneration rules for alternate magistrates provide for either half of the wager due for the period during which the deputy judge is acting to replace a person temporarily or for a remuneration per service provided. The latter shall be subject to a monthly allowance commensurate with the service provided. It seems to me that this is a proper wage, given the duration and nature of the services provided. It is not correct to speak of a free magistrate. As far as the fourth question is concerned, with regard to accidents at work, the rules on accidents at work do indeed apply to alternate magistrates. This is regulated by the Royal Decree of 18 July 1973. Fifthly, every time the administration retires, the administration always takes the initiative to seek advice from the judicial authorities for honorable dismissal, whether or not with the honorary title of the post. Sixthly, the concerns expressed by the Council of Europe about using more working magistrates or alternates are taken into account. Moreover, the Council has no objection to the use of retired magistrates. Specific training, incompatibility, supervision and sanctions measures shall be followed and further developed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic575x.u39	Minister, you are suggesting it a little more rosy than it is in practice.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic575x.u40	Minister, a great deal has already been said about VAT on lawyers' fees. In a written question to your fellow Finance Minister, I asked for the proceeds. In 2014, this was 70.3 million euros and in 2015 122.5 million euros. According to the OVB, the Order of Flemish Baries, there would have been less work for lawyers since the introduction of VAT, as the bill for those seeking justice has been increased a lot and access to the court for the middle class would also be limited. Minister, I have a number of questions about this. Firstly, do you recognise the link between VAT and the problems within the legal profession? Secondly, how do you respond to the claim that the introduction of VAT restricts access to justice for the middle class? Thirdly, is there no possibility of using these large amounts of VAT for the Treasury as part of the pro-Deo system? For my fourth question, I may be with the wrong minister. You will not be able to answer my question about the revenue of VAT in 2016. So I'm gonna drop that question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic575x.u41	Ms Lahaye-Battheu, as of 1 January 2014, lawyers are required to charge 21% VAT on their fees. Under European pressure, the legislation was amended, by analogy with the introduction of VAT for notaries and bailiffs in 2012, because Belgium was the only country where there was still an exemption from VAT for lawyers. This scheme also means that lawyers can now deduct VAT. The legal fees introduced in 2007 which require the losing party to pay the court proceedings and part of the lawyer fees of the winning party are not covered by this scheme. Costs such as Registry and Role Rights and Expedition of Judgments or Judgments advanced by a lawyer and then passed on to its clients are also not subject to this VAT regime. The same applies to the costs imposed by a notary or bailiff in some cases. At the time the lawyer passes these charges on to his client, the so-called advance payment scheme applies, so VAT is only paid once. The number of cases for a lawyer may be reduced for various reasons, which are not necessarily related to the introduction of VAT on the fees of lawyers, such as the greater accessibility of mediation by non-lawyers. Secondly, in order to guarantee access to justice, several initiatives are on the table. This is how I conclude a preliminary draft law on legal aid insurance. The purpose of this draft is to facilitate access to justice under the law of the person seeking it. Thirdly, I would like to remind you that the budget is a unit. The budget makes it possible to compare revenue and expenditure as a whole, as well as the appropriations earmarked for various policy areas. I have always succeeded in supplementing the remuneration of the pro-Deo attorneys within the closed envelope financing. For example, the value of the item was set in two phases in 2015. On 1 June of that year, the value of the item was EUR 24.76 and a total amount of EUR 71 932 000 was spent on the compensation of the pro-Deo attorneys. The fee was then increased by EUR 1 by a ministerial decision of 28 December 2015, which meant that the value of the item in 2015 was EUR 25,76. The total amount of the additional fee was EUR 2 978 000. The total budget thus amounted to EUR 74.9 million. On 15 March 2016, the value of the item was set at EUR 25,02, representing a total amount of EUR 72 795 000. Additional appropriations increased the value of the item by 0.99 euro. The value of the item will therefore be EUR 26,01 for 2016. The total budget thus amounted not to 72.8 but to 75.8 million euros. For your last question, please refer to the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic575x.u42	Question No 16046 by Mrs Ben Hamou is postponed. Question No 16047 by Mr. Van Hecke and questions Nos 16061 and 16065 by Mrs Jadin are transformed into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic575x.u43	On Friday morning 30 December 2016, Herve's fire department pulled out for a fire in a family home in the Liège Soumagne. They found three bodies in the house. For the two girls, all the help came too late. It turned out they were already dead before the fire. Their father was passed out in the house with his wrists cut over. The doctors could've saved him by the end of the day. Everything immediately pointed in the direction of a family drama. The father had killed his daughters with a knife, then set the house on fire and tried in vain to put an end to his life. In the meantime, the man has been released because of a procedural error: the arrest warrant was delivered to the person concerned too late. In human language, the decision is not issued on time on paper and registered. That can be done by the investigating judge himself, but also by the clerk, the police or the prison director. A term of 24 hours is also 24 hours. One minute later means release. In legal language, dura lex sed lex is sometimes said. I translate that as: one has to respect legal rules. Who was responsible for delivering the arrest mandate too late? Have disciplinary or other measures been taken against the person responsible? Have any security measures been taken to track the person concerned?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic575x.u44	Since the beginning of the legislature, I have advocated extending the arrest period from 24 hours to 48 hours. This requires an amendment of the Constitution. The extension of the deadline gives the police and judicial authorities more time to comply with the mandatory formalities and also to make a better assessment of serious indications of guilt. You will not have missed the fact that, as a result of Mr Van Eyken's case in the Flemish Parliament under the Salduzwet bis, I have made it possible to heal the nullity of a file in which someone without a signed arrest warrant was detained within the time limit. I'm telling you that because you're new here. I have long argued for the deadline to be increased to 48 hours. I have also tried to heal the defects that rest on arrest mandates within 24 hours. That is the Salduzwet bis, which entered into force on 27 November 2016. Following your question on an individual file led by an investigating judge, I questioned the Attorney General of Liège. According to the Attorney General, the fact that the arrest warrant was issued and signed outside 24 hours has to do with a combination of circumstances. In addition to the legal formalities of the police and investigating judge hearing, with the assistance of a lawyer, there was also a medical problem with the suspect that prevented him from proceeding quickly and within time. I cannot give you any information about the concrete actions and the time span, given the secret of the criminal investigation. I don't know about the start-up of disciplinary procedures. In fact, that is not within my powers as a minister. In this case, no more conditions can be imposed legally during the preliminary examination. The victims are supported and the court is in contact with them.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic575x.u45	Thank you, Minister. Perhaps also because I am new here, I am not entirely with you now when it comes to who is responsible for this serious failure. I understand that you do not have the authority to check whether sanctions are being imposed against those who make such mistakes. So I keep asking who has gone wrong here: a person or different persons.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic575x.u46	Minister, a long-term strike broke out in the French-speaking prisons in spring 2016. The reason for this was that French-speaking prison staff did not want to participate in your rationalization plans. In particular, it was noted that in Flanders little or no action was taken against the same rationalization plans. The Flemish prison staff was willing to go along with your plans. In order to stop the strike among French-speaking prison staff, you have concluded an agreement in which you have made a number of concessions. What is the state of play regarding the introduction of rationalisation plans in prisons? That was delayed. Are the savings frameworks in Belgian prisons actually being achieved? In which prisons is staff currently lower than the saving framework envisaged? The flexicurities promised to the prison staff would still not have entered into force until now. Can you confirm this? If so, what is the problem? When will a solution be worked out? I think I share the same concern as you in following the agreements to avoid strikes like last year.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic575x.u47	The introduction of rationalisation plans in prisons is progressing according to the agreement. The project "Other Works" was launched in the FPS Justice Department, so that everything is structured and coherent. The second phase of the project has been completed. An expert group within DG EPI carried out a theoretical exercise in all 37 prisons, reviewing the posts per establishment and calculating a new theoretical framework. A significant part of the exercises were already approved during the local consultation sessions, in the basic consultation committees, thus implementing the results. This is both in Flanders and Wallonia. The next phase will start in February. All local exercises, approved locally or not, will be discussed with the trade unions at the high consultation committee at national level. The results of this consultation will ultimately determine what the rationalised prison frameworks will be. I do not want to talk about saving frameworks when we talk about working differently. It is true that a number of establishments are currently below the number of staff required by the expert working group in order to be able to work properly. My administration is doing its utmost to recruit new staff for these places as a matter of priority. In the following establishments one has at least a full-time equivalent too short: Antwerp, Beveren, Bruges, Dendermonde, Hoogstraten, Ypres, Ruiselede, Jamioulx, Nivelles and Paifve. That's 9 establishments out of 35. For the entity Brussels, no figure is known due to a transition. The Ministerial decision on the flexi bonus was published on 19 December. The amounts due were paid at the end of last year.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic575x.u48	Thank you for the answer, Minister. I'm glad the flexi bonus finally worked out. I note that there is still work to be done in those nine institutions. I hope that you will soon be able to work on this and that the timing of rationalisation will also be achieved, so that strikes can be avoided in both French and Dutch-speaking prisons in Flanders and there is a proper staffing framework, in the interests of everyone's safety and working environment. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic575x.u49	I didn't count very well, Mr President. There's ten of them. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic575x.u50	Mr President, Minister, in December I already asked a question about telephony in our prisons, and I also expressed the concern that it is necessary to ensure greater safety in Belgium in this area. You know that security in and around our prisons is an inherent issue. Your answers at the previous sitting have led, as is often the case, to new questions, which I would like to ask you now. Mr Minister, for what reason is the Justice Department considering the transition to a new telephone system and a new solution? How do you see the important security aspects of this future telephone in prisons? Will security measures such as voice biometrics, reactive and proactive jamming, IMSl catcher and the like be included in the specifications? Do you intend to use the jamming of mobile signals? That solution is not only possible, but is also permitted by law, pursuant to Article 33 of the Law of 13 June 2005. Will advanced listening functions for intercepting conversations by the police, in accordance with what they have introduced or wish to introduce in foreign prisons, also be introduced in Belgium? Will a new specifications be drawn up for the new telephony system or will the FPS Justice consider renegotiating the contract with current suppliers in order to implement the new security measures?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic575x.u51	Mr President, Mrs De Wit, the transition to a modern telephone system, in particular through the use of Voice over IP technology, is in a secure way in line with today's standards of telephony and, in particular, prison telephony, in particular as follows. Firstly, a white and blacklist can be drawn up, indicating who and who should not be called. There is the possibility of calling a lawyer free of charge and the possibility of registration. Secondly, a telephone can be installed in each cell, which means that telephone booths will no longer have to be shared, as is currently the case. This would help to normalise prison life, but would also bring benefits in terms of the safety of the facilities, for example through reduced tension on those shared cabins, as well as in the implementation of the new method of working........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ Thirdly, the cost of telephone calls for the prisoners is being printed, as current prices are still based on the charges of the 2002 telephone booths, which are not at all in proportion to the current mandate. To this end, a new public contract will be launched, not least in accordance with current public procurement legislation. This request will be made at European level and will be open to all operators wishing to register. In terms of security, but also of telephone management, the new system will involve numerous improvements, such as dynamic and centralised management of access and individualisation of accessible telephone numbers. At present we cannot say which technologies will be incorporated, since some, in particular biometrics, are still in a test phase. However, the telephony contract, which will be launched, clearly provides for the system to be linked to the police and intelligence services interception centre.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic575x.u52	Minister, I do not think you have answered all my questions. There was another question about Jamming.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic575x.u53	Since a significant proportion of Belgian establishments are located in urban environments, the entire jamming poses enormous technical problems. In prisons such as Leuven-Central, jamming throughout the facility would also lead to a distorted communication for all persons who live or pass in the immediate vicinity of the prison. Moreover, such a solution is very expensive and must be sustained. For this reason, the Directorate-General for EPI has opted for an approach to trace the use of mobile phones through very regular sweeps within all establishments.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic575x.u54	Minister, I understand that there are mainly problems with jamming. For the rest, it seems particularly important to me that this should be done in an appropriate manner. We will certainly follow up on this dossier in order to achieve safe and adequate telephony in our prisons.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic575x.u55	Question No 16103 by Mrs Özlem Özen and question No 16122 by Mr Jean-Marc Nollet are transformed into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic575x.u56	Mr President, Minister, my question follows on from the questions I have already asked you about justices of the peace. On Monday, 23 January, we learned from the press that some 20 justices of peace had already closed their doors. At the end of 2015, your desire to rationalize the number of justices of peace led to the decision to abolish 29 justices throughout the country. This had caused many questions. Today, the issue we are talking about is the objective criteria that lead to the decision whether or not to abolish justice of peace. According to your spokesman, you are suppressing justices of peace that have "too little work". On the one hand, the expression is rather vague and does not refer in any way to a scientific method of calculating the workload. On the other hand, your office would be under pressure from local elected officials who want to keep their justice of peace. Minister, how do you calculate the workload of each justice of peace? What are the criteria that lead you to remove some justices of peace rather than others? What justices of peace do you suppress and why did you make this choice? What will be the impact for the district of Charleroi? What justices of peace do you intend to abolish in the district of Charleroi?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic575x.u57	Mrs Özen, I have already outlined the plan for justices of peace here on a number of occasions. But I note that some aspects are still unclear. The plan in question is divided into three phases. However, the news you are referring to relates to the first phase, which was decided at the end of 2015. This concerns the closure of the double and triple cantons, i.e. the centralisation of the cantons which have two or three seats and therefore several buildings. In selecting the location for centralization, the following elements were taken into account: the location, condition and status of the building, the preference expressed by the justices of the peace concerned, taking into account the most convenient location and workload, and cost effectiveness. Phases 2 and 3 will be implemented in 2017. Phase 2 deals with the merger of a number of registries, usually cantons located in the same building. Two justices of the peace, one clerk, one accountant. Phase 3 relates to the remodelling of the cantons. It is especially in this context that the workload is taken into account. To do this, we rely on the input of the field people. The criteria for this third phase are broader than those for the first phase. In addition, account will also be taken of the number of inhabitants, the size, the density, the number of cases (i.e. workload), housing and care centres, psychiatric centres and hospitals, economic data such as average income and the unemployment rate. For the third phase, it is currently not possible for me to give further details, for the simple reason that I obviously have to reserve this plan to the government and that no final decision has yet been taken.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic575x.u58	Minister, thank you. You answered my question in part. I will not hesitate to return to question you during the various phases.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic575x.u59	Question No 16124 by Mrs Özen Özlem is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic575x.u60	Minister, on Monday 16 January, three prison directors came to the House to expose their fears in the "Attents" committee. They stressed their difficulties in implementing the "anti-radicalization" plan and, more specifically, the actual shortcomings in the training of agents and the problems of communication between the different cells and their institutions. While the regrouping of radicalized prisoners seems to be beneficial, the training of prison staff is far from adequate. Only a small number of guards had the opportunity to be trained. Yet they are on the front line to detect signs of radicalization in an inmate. In addition, these officers communicate suspicious behaviour to the prison directors, who then inform the Celex (Cellule Extremisme). The latter then decrypts this information and communicates it to the OCAM when it proves necessary. The entire information chain is therefore based on prison officers, who do not have the keys to optimally decipher the behaviour of such prisoners. Finally, prison directors regret that information on potentially radicalized prisoners is only disseminated in one direction. In fact, most of the time they find themselves alone in the face of their suspicions, without knowing how to manage these inmates. Minister, are you aware of these difficulties? Are they, in your opinion, solely due to a lack of resources? How do you explain these malfunctions? What have you put in place so far to remedy this? Thank you in advance for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic575x.u61	Mrs Özen, as you know, DG PPE's approach to radicalisation is twofold: prevention of radicalisation during detention, on the one hand, and confinement and supervision of radicalised prisoners, on the other. The prevention of radicalization is the responsibility of all prison staff. It is necessary for DG PPE to raise awareness and train it on the issue of radicalisation so that it can detect the signs of radicalisation. It is clear, however, that not all surveillance personnel can be trained at the same time. However, a "radicalism" module has been integrated into the basic training for new agents. DG PPE is currently working on the development of an e-learning training module, which will enable them to learn at their own pace in the context of continuing vocational training. In any case, the supervisory staff of the D-Rad:Ex sections of Hasselt and Ittre, as well as the director and members of the psychosocial units responsible for these sections, have undergone specialized training. Several prison staff from satellite prisons also followed her. For the D-Rad:Ex sections, this represents 56 supervisory staff, four management members and seven members of the psychosocial services. For satellite prisons: 20 surveillance staff, 8 management and 16 psychosocial services. With regard to the issue of communication of information, it was decided that information should be concentrated at the decision-making level and that the information transmitted should be based on the principle of need to know. Finally, an improvement in the timing of the transmission of information is expected thanks to an increase in staff at the central division level within PPE in charge of the problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic575x.u62	Minister, the issue is really important and affects many prisons. You were talking about confinement, but during Prison Week, we had the opportunity to visit Ittre prison, for example, where the goal in relation to confinement was not achieved. Radicalized inmates could communicate with others on or off the upper floors. In this regard, it is a problem. In addition, officers trained for these detainees work with radicalized prisoners but also with all other detainees. Following a discussion during an interview with prison staff who are not in direct contact with radicalized inmates, he told us that we were seeing a change in the way we do things and behaviour towards other inmates. This training should therefore be extended to all staff and should not be limited to the staff of radicalized prisoners because, as soon as they are radicalized, it is too late. The problem must be taken from the source so that prisoners who have not yet been radicalized do not become radicalized in contact with radicalized prisoners.
