ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic581x.u1	Mr Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, welcome to our committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic581x.u2	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, in November 2015, I asked your predecessor Mr. Bart Tommelein a question about the commercial use of identity cards. Indeed, some businesses, such as Media Markt, use identity card readers to allow customers to access all their purchases to keep all guarantee tickets online. You are aware that the data contained on an identity card is protected, in particular by the law on the protection of privacy with regard to the processing of personal data. It requires that "personal data must be processed fairly and lawfully for specified, explicit and legitimate purposes". The case-law in this regard is, moreover, very strict. Thus, on 9 May 2012, the 9th Chamber of the Brussels Court of Appeal sentenced a computer company that had developed a service to use electronic identity cards as a loyalty card for commercial purposes. In his response, at the time, your predecessor referred to an ongoing investigation into the Privacy Commission. A person may be asked to present his or her identity card by a private company only when his or her identification is necessary for the performance of a contractual relationship, customer service or where a legal statement so provides. In this case, only data strictly relevant to the processing carried out by the controller may be collected, pursuant to section 4 of the Privacy Act. Mr Secretary of State, what about this investigation? What are the results? What actions can result from this? Are we in a position today to know what data are being collected by businesses? How? How are they used? Does this approach pose a risk to personal data and, in general, to the protection of consumers' privacy? More and more businesses are using this method, which turns an identity document into a loyalty card. Have they been informed of the vagueness of the legislation concerning this practice?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic581x.u3	Madam, at the reception of your question in June 2016, we contacted the Privacy Commission, which had already opened an investigation into this matter in the last few months. At this stage, the investigation is not yet closed. The Commission has met with the various actors very recently and clearly, it is still waiting for some elements of response from the controllers. As far as the legislative framework is concerned, I would point out that each controller who performs such an electronic reading of the identity card is already obliged to proactively communicate certain information to the data subject, such as the identity, address of the controller and also the purpose for which the data are collected. On the other hand, the data subject shall, in any case and at any time, have the possibility to ask the controller whether he is processing the data concerning him and the nature of the data, the use to be made of it and the source thereof. There is a responsibility on both sides. As a follow-up to your question, I would like to point out that the royal decrees required by the Law of 19 July 1991 on identity cards to regulate the automated control of identity cards and their use have not yet been adopted. My colleague Jan Jambon has to take them. I suggest that you contact him when the Privacy Commission issues the findings of his investigation. In this case, I can inform you that the use of the ID card for the purpose of storing guarantee tickets is not mandatory. The customer can refuse and benefit from the guarantee. On the other hand, unlike the Brussels Court of Appeal case you are quoting, there is no reference to the use of the identification number in the national register. Again, we are discussing with Mr. Jambon the possibilities of better framing the use of this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic581x.u4	Secretary of State, do you have a guideline for the conclusions of the working group? Can you give me a timing? I'm sure I'll come back to interview you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic581x.u5	Mrs Ben Hamou, we have contacted the Privacy Commission very recently. The investigation has been under way for a few months.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic581x.u6	It's been two years!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic581x.u7	You also know that the Commission is an independent organisation. So she's going to work calmly, but I'm going to ask her to conclude this investigation as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic581x.u8	I will not fail to also question the Minister of Security, Mr Jambon, and to come back and ask you further questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic581x.u9	Mr Secretary of State, therefore, the question of a possible illegality of the minutes for speeding up in case of immediate and physical non-verbalisation of the offenders is settled: nothing illegal. There's nothing illegal about future acts. But for those punished in the past and affected by the initial question, what about it? You announced that this would be a matter of the judge's decision. How are you going to remove the issue of inadmissibility following the illegality of the contravention on the grounds of illegality? Are offenders obliged to pay their fines or are they still entitled to challenge the penalty? Are we sure that past offences will be punished? I would like to remind you that every day there are some 9,300 fines for speeding. The failure to collect these fines represents both a financial loss of EUR 100 million which will be lacking in the fight against road crime. Your services have studied the decisions of the Court of Cassation mentioned. What have they inferred about the possible nullity of the fines claimed before you brought the proceedings into line? Mr Secretary of State, a recast of the repressive arsenal of road offences is under way. In your projects, how are you going to ensure that any risk of legal insecurity that might hinder the work of the police is now carefully and preventively controlled and neutralized? Furthermore, Mr Secretary of State, what position does the Commission take for the protection of privacy for the many Belgian drivers, 420,000 in France alone, flashed for speeding in other European countries with which there are agreements for the transmission of minutes of traffic offences? Similarly, how does it view the contraventions concerning non-Belgian drivers who violate the legislation on speed limits in our country? Does it also object to respect for privacy in order to prohibit the police from consulting the databases of the countries of origin of the offenders? Does it also object to the privacy infringement argument in order to close the files in question without further action? Have you settled this issue in the cross-border project developed at European level? Finally, how did you act to clarify and operationalize legislation on radar speed controls not accompanied by physical verbalization? You had announced that you would want to appoint one person per department for the management of data banks, as well as more stringent control by the Privacy Commission. What past dysfunctions have caused you to act in this direction? Have they been the reason for the Privacy Commission's prior agreement requirement? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic581x.u10	You know, of course, that the judgments of the Court of Cassation have given rise to a certain legal uncertainty, because it was apparently impossible at that time for the police services to have access to personal data coming from other public administrations, in particular the Crossroads Bank of vehicles. As soon as I became aware of these judgments, I contacted my colleagues from the Interior and Mobility and the Privacy Commission in order to reach solutions quickly. In this context, we have developed a two-pronged strategy: on the one hand, obtaining immediate authorisation from the Sectoral Committee for the Federal Authority - this is what the Commission on the Protection of Privacy did within a few weeks - and on the other hand, an amendment to the Law on the Protection of Privacy, in particular Article 36a on the Sectoral Committee, clearly explaining that police services are not subject to the approval of that Committee. It has always been the intention of the legislator to ensure that police services and others do not necessarily pass through an authorisation. Since the KB leaves room for interpretation, I will present a new draft law to the Council of Ministers on this matter. I believe that this incident makes it clear that the system of authorisations we have today is not working properly and does not protect us sufficiently. It allows the exchange of information for which there is no authorisation and for which there is no clarity. That is at the heart of the simplification of the exchange of information between public authorities that I wish to carry out myself. In a second phase, this will also cover a new framework law that I want to introduce to modernise privacy legislation. This is a first step. The legal basis for data exchange already exists for police and IVD services. But under our current system, this is not enough, because there is a need for formal additional authorisation. In fact, an authorization is a compliance review that confirms the legal conditions for the exchange of data. But I wonder what the value is when there is no posterior control. Thirdly, the authorities that do things right have an additional compliance examination, whereas authorities that do not apply for authorisation must not fear control and therefore pass between the meshes of the net. There is a control problem with the system as it exists. My conclusion is very clear. I think we need to modernise this system and make it more consistent with the GDPR (General Data Protection Regulation), the European rules decided a few months ago. This means, among other things, that: We must clearly refine the legal framework with the criteria for data exchange. We can reduce the administrative burden by organising the system differently. The appointment of a data protection officer within the service that follows and controls the databases places the responsibility where it should lie. These people must ensure that everything is done in accordance with European and Belgian legislation. The Privacy Commission can then make a very strong commitment in the field of audits and controls to see whether everything is effectively consistent with the rules and not just at that one moment in time, when one can exercise no or too little control afterwards. I have provided a table prepared by the Privacy Commission. It details the various authorizations that have been granted to the IVD databases. I am not going to go through this list now, but I am going to ask that it be made available to the chairman of the committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic581x.u11	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for your answer and for your perfect bilingualism - normal from the possible future mayor of Antwerp. On the other hand, I imagine that your project is part of the reform of the Privacy Commission, which we have already mentioned. In any case, I am satisfied with your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic581x.u12	I apologize for my lateness, Mr Secretary of State, but I was still on another committee. However, I have heard most of your reply. There was a commotion about the police clearance. It was very soon about the fact that the police authorities were given that authorisation again, which makes it possible to ask whether that system is working properly, if it is so easy to obtain that authorisation from the committee. It's a good thing you'll reconsider that. I just heard that announcement. It brings with it a great deal of red tape. Let's see if there are any more effective methods of protecting personal data than through the general authorisation system. I look forward to the follow-up and work that you and your cabinet will do for a more transparent, better and, above all, less cumbersome administrative process of protection. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic581x.u13	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, in 2016, we were already exchanging about press publishers, but not only, who are blocking access to their website for Internet users using advertising blockers on their browsers. A controversy arose at that time, as the Commission rightly believed that the scripts inserted by publishers in their web pages to detect blockers of advertisements must comply with the Privacy and Electronic Communications Directive and in particular Article 5.3 thereof. Thus, publishers must notify the Internet user when they attempt to access information about the user's terminal. In answer to my question, you said: "I share this view of the European Commission: the person has the right to be informed of all software which accesses the information contained on his computer." On 10 January, the European Executive presented a new proposal for a regulation on privacy and electronic communications to replace the current legislative framework. The proposed regulation will allow users to install ad blocker software on their device, but believes that "be aware that the online content available free of charge is often funded by advertising revenues. The proposed regulation therefore allows website providers to check whether the end-user device can display their content, including advertisements, without obtaining the consent of the user. If a website provider finds that not all content can be displayed by the end user, it is up to the end user to respond appropriately, e.g. by asking the end user whether he or she uses an ad blocker and whether he or she would agree to disable it when visiting the relevant website." Mr Secretary of State, this upcoming legislative change will entail a significant paradigm shift in the way the European authorities will consider privacy protection. Indeed, we would move away from the principle of privacy by design, which is dear to both of us. What position will you defend in the Council with regard to this worrying legislative development in the framework of the trialogue which opens until 25 May 2018? What measures are you planning to take at the federal level to discourage Belgian publishers of news sites from installing these devices to detect the presence of advertising blockers on Belgian netizens' devices – whether on computers or phones, things having changed?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic581x.u14	Mr Hellings, thank you for your question. Indeed, the European Commission has proposed to revise the e-privacy directive. This proposal will take the form of a GDPR (General Data Protection Regulation). The situation is somewhat strange, but we are at the same time very careful that the two texts remain compatible. The Commission has also carried out an in-depth analysis. As you said, negotiations within the Council of the European Union are beginning. Telecommunications is the responsibility of my colleague Alexander De Croo. Having said that, I am very attentive to any developments in this matter, since – as you have indicated – it affects the protection of privacy. Moreover, as I have already said, consistency must be maintained with the GDPR. For me, it's crucial. It is not a question of going in several directions and proposing different interpretations. Otherwise, the situation would be made more difficult. I hope that we can at least maintain the compatibility of these two projects. With regard to your question about advertising blockers, Articles 6, 7, 8 and 9 of the European Commission's e-privacy proposal lay down the rules for the protection of communications and information contained in the user's device. However, I must also point out that the latter's equipment and content are considered to be within its private sphere, which is protected by the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union and the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights. So we already have legal tools to protect this type of data. Therefore, any interference with privacy can only take place with the consent of the end user and in certain well-defined situations. The concept of consent refers to the one used in the GDPR, which demonstrates increased protection. However, we are at the beginning of the negotiations. There is a need for careful reflection and consistency, which means that these data are protected. We will have to pay close attention to the exceptions proposed by the other Member States or by the European Parliament, not only on specific points but also on the whole project that is being discussed in the Council of the European Union. I therefore remain attentive to the progress of this proposal from the European Commission. I also stand in line with what I said in June: these are essential data that must be protected.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic581x.u15	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for your answers. We will be very attentive and we will support you in the continuation of the positioning that you have stated here. I urge you to do the same with Minister De Croo, who is going to negotiate. The principle of privacy by design is really fundamental. Today, computer science is everywhere. We're both talking with computer devices. It is very important, as with the cookie policy, which has profoundly changed the use of the Internet, that content providers obtain the consent of the reader before any aspect of its own material is changed by the publisher in question. That is a fundamental point of view. It is necessary to inform the consumer who can no longer do without the technological means. It is very important that this Commission proposal can be radically modified during the trialogue. We trust you to defend this view on behalf of Belgium in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic581x.u16	Questions Nos 15831, 16263 and 16264 by Mrs Fabienne Winckel are transformed into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic581x.u17	Mr President, Minister, we have learned that the public bpost company will soon be responsible for sending fines to foreign drivers who have committed an offence on Belgian territory. By entrusting the dispatch of these orders to bpost, the government's objective is to allow police officers and prosecutors to focus more on their main tasks and not on administrative formalities. In order to fully fulfil its mission, bpost will therefore set up a website to enable offenders to make payments from abroad. Minister, can you tell us when the website will be posted? How will bpost monitor offender payments?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic581x.u18	Mr President, Mr Devin, on the occasion of the implementation of the cross-border directive, which aims to facilitate the exchange of information on road safety infringements between the Member States of the European Union, the full working process of collecting all road fines and pecuniary penalties will be optimised so that the police and the judiciary can concentrate on their fundamental tasks. Case management will be highly digitized and administrative monitoring, which is not part of the main tasks of justice and is not a matter of judicial policy, will be outsourced to bpost. This is not a novelty since, since 2006, bpost has been monitoring national road fines administratively and financially under the management contract. In the renovated system, it will be possible to pay online via a website with a debit card or credit card. In this way, an additional channel will be set up in parallel with the conventional transfer. bpost will then make a mapping of these payments with open debts, as is already the case for transfers. This will significantly reduce the workload of prosecutors and the police. Indeed, via the website, it will become impossible to make payments without structured communication, with an erroneous amount, etc. Today, this type of payment still requires manual intervention by the police and the judiciary and often leads to questions by telephone or in writing. Payments via the website will remove this administrative overload. Since payments via the website are guided by the central bank of unpaid fines, the bank still contains all the correct data available to the public prosecutor's office to register its prosecution policy, for example, better to combat recidivism. The full infringement profile of each driver will indeed be known, with a history of the treatments and the payment or not of the road fines. The timing envisaged for the implementation of the website is July 2017.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic581x.u19	Minister, thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic581x.u20	Questions No 15996 by Mr Stefaan Van Hecke and No 16133 by Mrs Carina Van Cauter are transformed into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic581x.u21	Minister, the online gamer tracking computer system of the Game of Chance Commission is subject to several thousand hacking attempts every year. In order to better protect itself from such attacks, this body wishes to have a security officer. The function is planned and budgets exist for this purpose. Minister, can you give us more information on the reasons for blocking the appointment of the Security Officer of the Game of Chance Commission's computer system? What is the status of the security officer's recruitment process? Can you give us more information about the date of his entry into office?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic581x.u22	The lack of IT personnel is due to the need to place more emphasis on security officials, as required by the Privacy Commission. In addition to the responsibility for security, the Security Advisor is responsible for the support of an expert in web services and for the transfer of knowledge currently in the hands of an external firm with ISO 27000 certification for this purpose. Use of an outside company is still necessary because it takes two years for a staff member to have sufficient knowledge, take courses and pass examinations and certificates. Finally, accompaniment to the Certified Information Security Manager (CISM) is required. This is a full-time job with the gambling commission. The commitment can only begin after the 2017 personnel plan budget has been approved.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic581x.u23	Minister, do you know when the appointment will take place? I don't have a date, but only the recruitment plan, I understood it well. If you have any idea the date, could you let me know? I don't want to argue, that's not my point at all.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic581x.u24	Mr Minister, I would like to ask you about the worrying situation in the support centres, and unfortunately this is not the first time we have to worry about it. As of June 2015, the existence of the country's three support centres was threatened. Even today, the sustainability of these centres is at risk if a solution is not found. Indeed, a 20 per cent reduction in subsidies, as in other operating costs, brought down the country's support centres, and their closures were about to be effective. It would appear that you committed at the beginning of 2016 to grant compensation for the 20% linear reduction. We are now at the beginning of 2017 and this promised compensation has not yet taken place. This repetitive situation has become unmanageable for services, both for the management of the centres and for employees who for the past two years have no longer been assured of their future. As is well known, these centres, established following the Dutroux case, play a crucial role in the supervision of professionals and in the care of perpetrators of sexual offences. It is unacceptable that such economic measures endanger the existence of these centres. I would also point out that the 1998 Cooperation Agreement makes it very clear that the Minister of Justice must subsidize the three support centres, as the sixth state reform left sex offenders to the federal government. Minister, allow me to ask you the following questions. Do you intend to grant the compensation that you had undertaken to grant? If so, when will it happen? Will this sum suffice to compensate for the destructive effects of linear cuts of economy? How much would it cost? What structural solutions do you intend to put in place? Would it not be preferable for support centres to operate on the basis of a multi-annual agreement?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic581x.u25	Ms.Ben Hamou, I am committed to ensuring that sexual offender monitoring support centres can continue their work in 2016. In concrete terms, I decided to grant, as I had already done in 2015 compared to 2014, the same subsidy in 2016 as in 2015, despite the savings on these expenditures. A final tranche of 178,000 euros has just been paid. In the meantime, I have invited the support centres to meet with the Communities, given their expertise in this area, since the Houses of Justice were transferred to the Communities as part of the Sixth State Reform, since support for sex offenders is a customizable subject. The support centres have met with the Communities but to date there has been no result. The work that the support centres carry out in assessing, treating and guiding the acts of sexual offenders is indeed essential for the proper functioning of our society. That is why, for two successive years, I have done everything necessary to give them the full amount of their subsidies, notwithstanding the savings. It is important that they can continue their activity. I will address the issue again at an interdepartmental conference, and I will try to find a lasting solution with them. In view of the principle of the annuality of the budget, a multi-annual agreement will not solve much of the budgetary aspects, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic581x.u26	Minister, thank you for your answer. Do you confirm that for 2017, the amount was paid to the support centres?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic581x.u27	For 2016.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic581x.u28	So for 2017, you haven't released the funds yet?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic581x.u29	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic581x.u30	To be able to operate this year...
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic581x.u31	In budgetary terms, the question is really premature. I did everything I needed two years in a row. I must be granted this merit and give myself the opportunity to discuss it further with the Communities. The financial inspection on this subject is very difficult.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic581x.u32	I get it. But as you make the fight against recidivism a priority of your general policy note, it is a pity that nothing is done in this area to subsidise this centre. I'm so sorry.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic581x.u33	Is nothing done, ma'am? Two successive years, I've done the right thing.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic581x.u34	The problem is that these people don't know what they're going to do tomorrow; whether tomorrow they're going to have a subsidy or not. That's the problem. We can't confirm them today.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic581x.u35	I'm not confirming anything.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic581x.u36	Is it possible to get the answer to this question in writing? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic581x.u37	Question No 16087 by Gilles Vanden Burre is transformed into a written question. Question No 16165 by Mrs Rita Bellens was withdrawn. Questions Nos. 161992 and 16196 by Mr. Koenraad Degroote and questions Nos. 16228, 16229 and 16230 by Mr. Stefaan Van Hecke are transformed into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic581x.u38	Mr Minister, an article published last week mentioned something surprising: more than 5 tons of explosives of any kind would be stored under the Brussels courthouse. This far exceeds the 450 kg allowed by the operating licence. According to the first president of the Court of Cassation, explosive materials would not be kept according to the rules: they would be placed simply on shelves. While the problem does not seem to be recent, why has no action been taken before? Is it planned to proceed with the evacuation of explosives? If so, where will they be stored? What are the risks to the building and staff? How long must exhibits be kept and under what conditions? Will these criteria be reviewed?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic581x.u39	Mr Minister, two weeks ago we received the first President of the Court of Cassation, Mr de Codt, in our Committee on Justice and indeed declared that no less than five tonnes of explosive material would be kept in the Brussels Palace of Justice. In the meantime, a number of fellow Members asked a number of questions about this last week, and you answered a number of questions at that time. Firstly, for certain reasons, not all the material can be transferred to another place or destroyed. Secondly, there is a protocol between Defence, Home Affairs and Justice for disposal and destruction. Finally, the administration of the ammunition that serves as evidence is the responsibility of the prosecution. Given that ten times more kilograms of explosive material have been stored in Brussels than the environmental permit permits, I suspect that the protocol does exist, but is not or hardly being applied. I therefore have the following questions for you, Minister. Firstly, does the protocol apply to all courts, so in addition to the Brussels court, does it apply to, for example, the Liège or Antwerp court? Secondly, for the different courts covered by the protocol, how often was the protocol used in 2016 to neutralize explosive materials in cooperation with Defence?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic581x.u40	Je vous remercie, Mesdames Jadin et Van Vaerenbergh. I would like to refer here to the very comprehensive answer I gave in this committee last week to a question from some of your fellow Members. That can answer most of your questions. I can confirm that the protocol applies, of course, to all courts. That's a national document. I cannot give you the exact figures now because the contacts go directly through the judicial services and the DOVO. My administration plays the role of facilitator in the drafting of the protocol and in the dissemination of information, but the application is done on the ground. I do have additional information on the retention periods and conditions of the articles of conviction. In the logic of criminal law, it was normal at the time that evidence had to be kept until a trial had taken place. The exhibits were kept in the courthouse and this was no problem until the transplants reached their maximum capacity. One began to wonder if everything should necessarily be preserved. The first exception to the principle of indefinite retention was based on public health and public order concerns. These were perishable things, drugs, toxic substances, prohibited weapons, ammunition that, as evidence, could be replaced by an inventory and photographs. With regard specifically to ammunition and fireworks equipment, the field training provided that they should be regularly removed from transplants, stored in a safe place and destroyed. In the meantime, this matter has been the subject of a cooperation protocol between Justice, the Interior and Defence. It is therefore important that the responsible department enforce the protocol rules with the Defence, which exists precisely to ensure their abduction. In summary, there is no maximum period of time and the means available are sufficient to proceed proactively with the removal and destruction. My services note, however, that there is still little use of this legal opportunity. I have therefore asked the competent departments to take an initiative to promote this regulation.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic581x.u41	Thank you for your answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic581x.u42	In a report released on Wednesday, 11 January, the Group of States against Corruption (GRECO) is very critical of Belgium's efforts or, rather, of its lack of efforts in this area. In particular, the Committee notes that, with regard to the corruption of parliamentarians, judges and prosecutors, none of the fifteen recommendations made by the Committee have been fully implemented. Only four of them were partially successful. GRECO had, among other things, urged our country to take action on lobbyists' actions with elected officials. It also recommended that the necessary tools be developed to ensure the independence, impartiality and integrity of the judiciary. In the context of a crisis of citizens' confidence in the institutions and in politics in general, GRECO's findings can only be called into question. Have you read this report? I had addressed the question to the Prime Minister, but apparently you are in charge of the case. What follow-up will you give? Which minister is responsible for coordinating this follow-up within the government? I have already received the answer, it is the Minister of Justice, if I understand correctly. How long do you intend to take action and implement these recommendations? Among GRECO's recommendations, which are the government's priorities? What difficulties do they possibly pose to him?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic581x.u43	The Council of Europe Group of States against Corruption (GRECO) adopted on 21 October 2016 a compliance report as part of Belgium's fourth assessment cycle. This report was published on 11 January 2017. In this fourth evaluation cycle, GRECO focuses on preventing corruption of parliamentarians, judges and prosecutors. The report contains 15 recommendations to be implemented by Belgium. The compliance report is a follow-up report on the implementation of the recommendations adopted by GRECO on 28 March 2014. In this context, the SPF Justice has prepared a status report and submitted it to GRECO, which on this basis has prepared this compliance report. GRECO notes that the 2014 recommendations have not been, or very partially have been, implemented. GRECO will assess, on the basis of the new status report to be submitted by the Belgian authorities in 2017, the subsequent follow-up to the implementation of the outstanding recommendations by Belgium. These recommendations are important for the proper functioning of our institutions, for our rule of law, and for citizens' confidence in them. The government and I are therefore paying a great deal of attention to this and will be dealing with the GRECO report with the highest priority. GRECO makes nine recommendations on ethics, corruption of judges and prosecutors. In that regard, he welcomed the efforts already made, namely the establishment of the College of Courts and Courts, the College of Public Prosecutions, the standard profiles adopted by the executive functions and the measures proposed by the Supreme Council of Justice to remedy the lack of a periodic synoptic report on the functioning of the courts and the services of the Public Prosecutor's Office. GRECO noted, however, that the recommendations had not been implemented. My services are reviewing them and I will take different initiatives in a short time. Of course, the Supreme Council of Justice and the colleges of courts and tribunals, attorneys general and the public prosecutor's office will be involved. The House has full competence to transpose the eight recommendations on the prevention of corruption among parliamentarians. This subject is also monitored in the political parties working group. Parliamentarians have put forward several proposals on ethics, good governance and good practice. In this connection, the Conference of Presidents of 25 January decided to request the services of the Chamber to prepare an exhaustive list of proposals tabled around these themes to see how the work could be organized. I am convinced that the House will also take GRECO's recommendations to heart.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic581x.u44	Minister, you are right to say that this is a shared responsibility and that the House has part of that responsibility. I hope that this decision at the Conference of Presidents on 25 January will be followed by effects and that parliamentary majorities will be able to emerge from the texts, in particular those tabled by my group on ethics. You also have your share of responsibility. You are presenting with me and with GRECO a finding of Belgium's lack in the fight against corruption, but I note your commitment to act proactively on the subject. I turn to the chairman of this committee because this could be the subject of a special session to consider the action plans and achievements already undertaken in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic581x.u45	Mr Minister, on 14 December 2016, the Belgian Official Journal published the amendment of the Criminal Code on the punishment of terrorist financing. This amendment not only made the preparatory acts but also the financing of all terrorist offences criminal. Moreover, it is not just about financing a terrorist offence, but also about facilitating a terrorist offence, as well as about financing the terrorist himself. In order to ensure that the amendment of the law is as effective as possible, it is necessary for clear policy instructions to be given by the College of Attorneys General. That is why I have the following questions. What policy instructions will be given or have already been given to effectively implement the financing of terrorist offences in practice? What instructions will you give or have already been given to check the funding of the houses of prayer? Will you also check the origin of the money used to finance the houses of prayer? Will research on the financing of unrecognized houses of prayer also be included in the policy instruction? What direct action will be taken on the information obtained?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic581x.u46	Ms Van Cauter, following the publication of the Law of 14 December 2016 amending the Criminal Code on the Punishment of Terrorism in the Belgian Official Journal of 22 December 2016, the Terrorism Expert Network of the College of Attorneys General did indeed draw up an internal memo on 28 December 2016 and sent it to all specialised terrorist magistrates. The memo explains the content of the legislative changes and focuses on the practical application. In addition, the law will be discussed in January 2017 at a meeting of the expertise network Terrorism, on which specialized terrorist magistrates will be present. In reply to your questions on the instructions and investigation into the financing of prayer houses, it should be made clear that the Law of 14 December 2016 criminalises the preparatory acts and the provision of material means for the purpose of committing a terrorist offence. It goes without saying that the vast majority of prayer houses have no connection to terrorism. They are therefore not endorsed by the repressive law and the memo of the expertise network. In the context of the procedure for the recognition of a place of worship and of the servant of the worship service and in its supervision, the Security of the State shall carry out a security screening exercise, which shall cover, inter alia, the financing of the prayer house and the origin of the financing. I am currently working on a letter that will specify and formalise this security screening. The Security of the State shall also ensure an annual evaluation of the mosques already recognised. If criminal offences relating to the financing of a prayer house are brought to light by administrative or criminal authorities, the King's Attorney will be able to bring criminal proceedings.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic581x.u47	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. Of course, we are pleased that you are taking up the issue of financing terrorism and terrorists and that action is taken immediately. Of course, I did not want to say that there is a necessary link between prayer houses, on the one hand, and the financing of terrorist crimes, on the other. I merely asked the question, and you answered it with satisfaction. If, in certain cases, the security of the State makes negative opinions, then I assume that there are reasons for doing so and that there may be indications of possible crimes. I also implicitly understand from your reply that it is being included and that it is being notified and that, if there are effective problems with the financing of certain crimes, this will also be followed up.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic581x.u48	Mrs Van Cauter, I give you the floor for your question. 16178 on the review of four years of new nationality legislation.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic581x.u49	Mr Minister, can you give me an answer to my question and I will ask them? If you are going to answer me that you do not have all the figures, I would rather postpone them, but if you can answer me, I will be happy to ask the question. Do I prefer to postpone them?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic581x.u50	I will refer you, among other things, to the Committee on Naturalizations.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic581x.u51	Then I'll postpone them.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic581x.u52	Okay.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic581x.u53	It's customary...
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic581x.u54	However, I do not have any statistics on this myself.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic581x.u55	No statistics, but you have given me figures every year since the legislative amendment. You should not have statistics, but you can know how many immigrants have acquired Belgian nationality. That's within your jurisdiction. Should we postpone the question?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic581x.u56	I think it's best if you delay them.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic581x.u57	Then I'll postpone my question. I got it.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic581x.u58	Minister, I have a question about the interpretation of the declaration of revision of an article in the Constitution. Article 12 of the Constitution provides that the person's freedom is guaranteed. No one can be prosecuted except in the cases provided for by the law and in the form prescribed by it. Except in the event of discovery in the act, no one may be arrested except by a reasoned order from the judge, which must be served on arrest or within 24 hours at the latest. On that third paragraph of Article 12, at the end of the previous legislature, a proposal for revision of the Constitution was adopted on 24 April 2014, and I quote: "The Chamber of Representatives declares that there are grounds for revising Article 12, third paragraph of the Constitution, in order to comply with European case law relating to the assistance of a lawyer from the first hearing. I understand from this that the third paragraph of Article 12 can only be revised in the context of the Salduz legislation. Apparently, I disagree with the chairman of the Special Committee on Counter-Terrorism, who was to speak for a Marnixring a few weeks ago, claiming that that revision of Article 12, third paragraph, also implies that the duration of the arrest can be extended. He boasted that he would have an agreement with the Prime Minister on this. He himself submitted a proposal to revise Article 12 of the Constitution with a view to extending that period of detention. Apart from the debate on the desirability of granting the detention period, I would have liked to have heard from you the following. What is the current state of play on the provisions on the duration of arrest in cases outside the detection in the act? Can you clarify the scope of that revision of Article 12, third paragraph, as adopted in this Chamber a little over two years ago? I hope you can clarify that. I'm curious to hear your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic581x.u59	Mrs Pas, I can confirm that the revision of Article 12, third paragraph, of the Constitution does indeed mean that the time limit for arrest can be extended by 24 hours. There is no discussion on the scope of the revision as adopted on 24 April 2014. In fact, the hearings in this committee have clarified this once again. As has often been announced, I am in favour of extending this deadline to 48 hours for all crimes, possibly longer for terrorist offences, namely 72 hours. I've been on that line since my Justice Plan of 18 March 2015. You also ask me about the exact state of affairs concerning the current provisions on the duration of arrest in cases outside the detection in the act. In our view, the third paragraph should be read as follows. Firstly, in addition to the discovery in the act, a suspect who is deprived of his liberty in the context of a criminal investigation must be brought before the investigating judge within 24 hours and must be served with the arrest warrant within that period. If not, no pre-trial detention can be imposed. We are therefore looking for an unsub who has not yet been identified. The same 24-hour period applies to facts discovered in the act, but it is understood that in this case, of course, the police can intervene immediately after establishing the facts and robbing the suspect of his freedom, so that he does not take the flight. The police will immediately inform the magistrate of the court, who, in the event of a request for remand, will lead the defendant to the investigating judge. The period between arrest, deprivation of liberty and service of the arrest mandate of the judge shall not exceed 24 hours.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic581x.u60	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. Despite the fact that the revision states that Article 12, third paragraph, is subject to revision in order to comply with the European case-law relating to the assistance of a lawyer from the first hearing, this may also be subject to revision as regards the extension of the period of detention. So we must not wait for another legislature to do so. Your wish to extend this to 48 hours can indeed be transposed into legislation. I note that and hope that it will be done quickly.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic581x.u61	Mr. Chair, Minister, pursuant to the government agreement, the federal government approved the Masterplan 2008-2012-2016 for a more humane prison infrastructure. This project offers, among other things, a solution to the problem of overcrowding in Belgian prisons. The municipality of Sambreville, once a new settlement site, seems to be no longer the elected one. However, feasibility studies for the Saint-Gobain Glass site appeared to have an acceptable pollution threshold for habitat and a low lift basement. The analysis report sent by Minister Jambon to the municipality of Sambreville even goes so far as to recall the correct location of the settlement. Minister, when you read these arguments, what are the objectivable criteria that allowed you to remove Sambreville as a city of settlement for a new prison? Could you consider an estimate of the cost of soil stabilization, which seems to be the only problem identified by the feasibility studies, and compare it with the one required to bring other selected land into compliance under the Masterplan prisons?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic581x.u62	Mr President, Mrs Grovonius, Masterplan 3 was approved on 18 November. This was an important step in the implementation of many differentiated projects. The construction of the Sambreville prison was planned in the version of the previously approved Masterplan. A soil survey of the Saint-Gobain industrial site, conducted by an external company in 2012 and 2013 at the request of the Régie des Bâtiments, showed that, given the pollution present there, the current condition of the site would either require a clean-up phase prior to any construction project or would pose specific requirements in this regard. The additional cost of rehabilitating and building a prison on this site was refined in a second, more detailed study, which was carried out by another external company in 2014. This complementary analysis focused on the present pollution and the stability problems inherent in a fully covered terrain on a very high height. Given the very high additional cost – 11 million, informs me of the Régie des Bâtiments – and the difficulties that pollution will pose during the work, it has been decided to abandon this idea.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic581x.u63	Minister, thank you for your answers. However, there is one element on which you have not given any information, to have the costs to allow the construction of prisons on other settlements. This would have made it possible to have a useful comparison and to determine whether the choice which was made to abolish this construction in Sambreville was made objectively or whether it was again a Community question, which would be quite regrettable!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic581x.u64	Minister, it would be nice if it were not so poignant: our peace court left a note in the peace court, in which he stated that it was best not to use the toilets because of a lack of sufficient maintenance. He noted that a cleaning aid had been waiting for some time to keep the peace dish clean. You responded to that, Minister. You indicated that you were looking for a solution and that you would take the necessary steps, including by increasing cooperation between the courts. This is also the case in our region. Minister, what concrete measures are you proposing in the short term and in the longer term for our peace court? Do such problems occur in other courthouses? What solutions will you offer?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic581x.u65	Minister, you have already announced several times that you will seek long-term solutions to the sometimes lamentable situations in the courthouses, inter alia by bringing together secretaries and drawing up a master plan on court buildings. We can understand this method, but it does not alter the fact that measures are also needed in the short term to deal with the urgent problems in the interests of both the judicial staff and those seeking justice. From a number of peace dishes we hear a lot of complaints about rooms that are not cleaned or cleaned by the staff themselves, about toilets that are not usable, about moisture problems, about the heating that does not work, about floors that are likely to collapse under the weight of archives. Such external features are not conducive to the image of Justice. Minister, by when do you intend to complete your long-term solutions? Are you taking measures to address the specific problems in the short term? Is there a specific point of contact with the FPS Justice for this purpose?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic581x.u66	I have already explained my plan for the peace courts here on several occasions, including at last week's committee meeting. So I do not need to do that in detail again. I believe that the problems you mentioned can be solved by rationalising and using resources more efficiently. This can be done by using mobile staff, by merging Registrys, and above all by keeping fewer buildings. We started with this and have already closed more than twenty buildings in phase one. Phases two and three will be implemented in the coming year. This is very concrete and will soon lead to results. As far as staff are concerned, there is an increasing tendency to pool staff groups, both for administrative and support staff. The various executive committees of magistrates already play their role in the search for concrete cooperation. In concrete terms, I will answer the questions concerning the peace dishes of Grimbergen and Meise. Here, in order to allow an immediate solution, a transfer of a cleaning lady was provided. However, my administration has learned that the person concerned has been absent for a long time because of illness, which is forcing the recruitment of a new cleaning lady. A dossier on this matter was submitted to the Finance Inspectorate to provide a solution to these cantons in the short term. As soon as the FPS receives an agreement from the inspection, the necessary steps will be taken to recruit cleaning staff for the peace courts. Finally, I can also tell you that you can always report concrete infrastructure problems to the competent department in my administration. That service and the way in which it is operated are sufficiently well known to all judicial services.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic581x.u67	I should like to make it clear, Minister, that there is a need for a new recruitment. Can you estimate how long it will take before the recruitment of a new staff member is completed? I understand that the Finance Inspectorate must agree to this, but I suspect that an exam should also be organised and that publicity should be provided for this.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic581x.u68	The recruitment reserve is being used up.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic581x.u69	So one will write someone out of the recruitment reserve. This means that it all goes a little faster than when there is an actual vacancy to be placed. So we can expect a solution in the short term? Do we still need to give a push to the Minister of Finance, or is that not even necessary anymore?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic581x.u70	It has nothing to do with that; it's about the inspection. If so, we'll polish together.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic581x.u71	Minister, I had a bit of the same question. I am not sure what short-term debt to you means to you, because short-term debt to one means something different from the other. Are you referring to a few months?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic581x.u72	In my opinion, short term is always very short. However, if you wish to become Minister of Justice, you are welcome to recruit new cleaning women.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic581x.u73	I didn't mean to attack you personally, Minister. Are you talking in three months or are you talking in a year? I can't figure out what short-term means.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic581x.u74	It is important that the recruitment reserve can be used.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic581x.u75	(...) in place.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic581x.u76	Minister, the withdrawal of nationality is a possibility provided for in the Belgian Code of Nationality. Belgian nationality may be declared invalid. This is the case, among other things, for persons who have been sentenced to more than five years of effective imprisonment for certain offences or who are convicted of marriage of convenience. Last year the law was amended, also in order to be more effective in the fight against terrorism and to be able to reduce certain people's nationality. This has been done with caution, but there are possibilities. Minister, what is the state of play? Can you give an overview of the number of times the revocation was pronounced? What were the main reasons? Then what were the convictions: marriage of convenience, terrorist offences or other crimes?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic581x.u77	Mrs Lanjri, on the basis of the information which the judicial authorities have so far provided to my administration, I can provide you with the following overview of the revocations that have been made without guaranteeing exhaustivity. First of all, I have six judgments in which the revocation is based on the fraudulent acquisition of Belgian nationality. The court of appeal of Ghent has delivered three judgments for committing fraud which was of decisive importance in the granting of Belgian nationality. A judgment of 11 December 2008 concerning a man of Bhutanese origin, born in 1972, who had filed his application under the name of a Nepali, whose residence permit he had purchased. A judgment of 5 February 2009 in respect of a man of Albanian origin, born in 1968, who, in his application, made use of an instrument of familiarity with a false Kosovar name, with which he obtained a residence permit as a refugee. A judgment of 4 June 2009 in respect of a woman of Thai origin, born in 1961, who had applied on the basis of a marriage with a Belgian, but did not mention that her divorce had already been pronounced by a court other than that of her place of residence. At the Liège appeal court I count two judgments. A judgment of 16 January 2012, declaring a man of Serbian-Montenegrin origin and born in 1964, but actually Albanian nationality and born in 1961, void of his Belgian nationality because of the use of false documents in his applications for residence permits which led to the acquisition of Belgian nationality. A judgment before the Liège appeal court of 4 December 2013, declaring a woman born in Kinshasa in 1977, of her Belgian nationality acquired by naturalisation by using a false identity and false statements on the basis of which she was granted the refugee status and the necessary residence permits. The Brussels appeal court delivered a judgment on 13 May 2014, declaring a woman of Moroccan nationality and born in 1974 to lapse from her Belgian nationality which she had acquired on the basis of the right of residence she acquired through fraud, being her marriage to a Belgian. In addition, I can inform you that there are still four judgments, in which the revocation is based on the application of Article 23 (1) 2° of the Belgian Code of Nationality, which is the serious deficiency in the obligations of Belgian citizens. These are three judgments of the Brussels appeal court on the basis of convictions for terrorist activities inspired by religious extremism. A judgment of 26 January 2009 in respect of a man of Tunisian nationality, born in 1965; another judgment of the Brussels Court of Appeal in respect of a man of Moroccan nationality, born in 1977, and finally a judgment of 20 December 2010 in respect of a person born in Algeria in 1959 with Tunisian nationality for Islamic extremism. At the Brussels appeal court, a judgment of 18 November 2010 concerning a man of Moroccan origin, born in 1987, was condemned in Morocco for terrorism, who abused his Belgian identity to commit criminal acts in Belgium and Morocco.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic581x.u78	Thank you, Minister, for your comprehensive reply. In this way, I have a view of how often nationality has been withdrawn. Apparently that didn't happen very often, but still a dozen times. I also note that the amendment adopted last year has not yet led to any new withdrawal of nationality, which can, of course, still be achieved.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic581x.u79	Mr President, Minister, following the show "Due to inquiry" on 28 September, I would like to come back to a problem that I have already addressed with you in order to convey here the concerns of many magistrates, investigators and scientific workers of the Forensic Institute of Liège. Because of your recent policy of drastically reducing tariffs for DNA analyses, only a Franco-German multinational such as Eurofins can practice the floor prices you have imposed – imposed, moreover, in the absence of any negotiation and adjustment period, contrary to the method used by your predecessor. It is probably because the last Walloon laboratory is supported by public funds that it still holds both well and badly. However, in the view of the rector of the ULg, very understandable: "It is not at the University to finance the federal state." Indeed, the private laboratory Bio.be in Gosselies has unfortunately not resisted your attack. You regularly justify this decrease in the prices of genetic analyses by a significant difference with their actual cost of production. In doing so, you seem to forget that the world of forensics is growing and is forcing laboratories to adapt by regularly acquiring expensive new equipment or updating obsolete equipment. This unilateral and unwarranted reduction in tariffs has many serious consequences for the quality of investigations. On the one hand, the reduction in the number of tests and, on the other hand, the absence of contact, other than through a form, between investigators and laboratories may eventually lead to the wrong direction of investigations. The situation is as serious as it is urgent. Despite the lifting of the notice that ran until the end of 2016 thanks – for a last time doubtless – to the support of the ULg, you know that the Forensic Institute of Liège risks closing its doors permanently by the end of the year if you do not provide satisfactory answers to its repeated requests. In fact, the number of requests for analyses is decreasing and the Institute's forensic activities are therefore reduced as a result of grief. Therefore, allow me, Minister, to ask you the following questions. How are you going to ensure that the low cost analyses will meet the demands expected by the actors of justice and, more broadly, by our rule of law? After the early assessment of the tariffs, you announced at the commission meeting on 22 June, a reassessment by the end of 2016. When can we get the results? On that occasion, there was also talk of an indexation of tariffs in September. What about it? The Walloon laboratories had already agreed on cost reductions for a long time, and in a negotiated manner. Would it not be appropriate to draw up a different plan for Flemish laboratories? What is still your vision for the future of forensic medicine? Will you continue to sacrifice our DNA labs (three out of six Flemish labs have already moved into Eurofins) with the sole aim of saving money and thus favouring profitability at the expense of the quality of justice? Thank you in advance for your answers and I hope that concrete solutions will be proposed in order to save the last Walloon laboratory of DNA analysis.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic581x.u80	Mr President, Mrs Fernandez, the re-evaluation can be expected for the first half of 2017. I understand that this is not an easy and simple operation given the sensitivities in the academic world. The request for indexation of all tariffs for criminal court fees was requested from the budgetary authorities in mid-2016 but was refused. This indexation will again be mentioned during the budgetary control in March 2017. Pricing is a federal matter that applies to the whole of Belgium; there can be no question of regional differentiation in the setting of tariffs. You are referring to a Franco-German data, but the headquarters of Eurofins has been established for some time in Brussels. Belgian DNA legislation provides for a number of quality guarantees which are stricter than those imposed on us by Europe. Thus, before a laboratory can be approved, we require a mandatory laboratory accreditation, a 24-hour duty station and the need to employ specific degree holders. Expert reports must be provided within one month. In addition, a number of forensic advisers have been made available to prosecutors and investigating judges because they can provide advice on trace analysis in complex cases. In this way, a genuine contact is established between the magistrate and the DNA expert, a contact which is currently an example abroad. The consolidation of laboratories is expected to have an impact in terms of volume, thereby reducing operating costs and making technological investments faster. If Belgian legislation on the European Public Procurement Directive were strictly interpreted, a maximum of one provider per Region would have been designated and a minimum of one provider for the territory would have been sufficient for a period of four years. Both my administration and I oppose this, because at the end of these four years, all the expertise would be with only one claimant. In addition, there is a risk that the activity will go definitively to another European country. Other laboratories can no longer carry out analyses during these four years, as a result of which they will lose their BELAC accreditation and will therefore no longer be able to meet this important quality requirement in a future specification. Moreover, the principle of public procurement would undermine the independence of the judiciary. The intention is certainly not that the related analyses and reports in the context of ongoing criminal investigations should be found in the hands of foreign operators who cannot guarantee the same interaction between the provider and the judiciary.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic581x.u81	Minister, I was hoping for a little clarification, but I can't see anything. I do not see a single window opening up to reassure the workers and actors of the Forensic Institute of Liège. We're pushing all the expertise and DNA analysis into Eurofins' arms. We're going to a monopoly of this company. I am obviously concerned about the quality of investigations and the application of justice tomorrow. I was very worried when I arrived, and I'm all the more worried about the future of the Forensic Institute after hearing your answer. The University will not be able to continue to fund it. Unless I have been distracted, I have not heard in your answer any willingness to do so. So we're going to find ourselves without such an institution in Wallonia, and I can only regret it.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-01-54-commissie-ic581x.u82	Questions No 16008 by Mrs Catherine Fonck, No 16265 by Mr Georges Gilkinet and No 16334 by Mrs Kristien Van Vaerenberght are transformed into written questions.
