ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic603x.u1	Colleagues, pending a quorum for the vote on the bill on our agenda, I suggest that you ask a few questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic603x.u2	After France, Minister, Belgium was also affected by bird flu. A second case was identified yesterday, after we had already found the virus in the East Flemish Lebbeke. Therefore, since 2 February 2017, all chickens throughout the country have to be stored for a period of 12 weeks. We understand this measure, of course. We cannot and must not take any chances. It is a pity, however, that there is no conclusive European legal solution to the economic consequences of this decision. Poultry farmers with an exit farm have made large investments because they need to provide more space for the chickens. However, the compulsory storage measure ensures that the maximum time limit for the designation of eggs as free-flowing runs. As a result, these eggs automatically become cheaper free-range eggs. For poultry farmers this is a serious financial noose. This can cost them up to 2 000 euros per week in income. European agricultural organisations call for an extension of the derogation period, as is already the case with organic eggs. In the meantime, Member States have the possibility of starting their own arrangements with Europe's co-financing. This is an opportunity that I think we should seize while waiting for a final proposal from the Commissioner. I have a few questions about that. What is your position on the possibility of co-financing to start this own scheme? Have any steps been taken in this direction? If so, what and at what time? Are measures in place to combat the economic setback for poultry farmers, whether or not with an out-run farm, as far as possible? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic603x.u3	As far as free-range laying hens are concerned, which lose their status after 12 weeks of chopping, since 2 February 2017, I am aware of the significant losses that this causes. Nevertheless, the priority must remain to protect our holders in order to avoid even more serious consequences for the whole sector. Thanks to the preventive measures on biosafety that I have taken since 10 November 2016, the economic impact of the avian influenza on the Belgian poultry sector has been limited so far. Unlike our neighbouring countries, only highly pathogenic avian influenza has so far been detected in Belgium by a private holder of ornamental poultry. As a result, the impact on intra-Community trade and exports to third countries of Belgian poultry and poultry products is limited. However, this impact would be very significant if a case were to be found in a professional poultry farm. The European regulation regulating the marketing standards for eggs and any economic aid to affected poultry farmers falls within the competence of the Regions. However, at the European Agriculture Council on 23 January Belgium asked the European Commission to seek solutions that would cause as little damage as possible to holders who respect the sanitary measures. My administration also discussed this issue with the regional administrations at the Inter-Ministerial Conference on Agriculture on 26 January. Although the regions are primarily competent to cope with the economic consequences of avian influenza, within the framework of my powers I am doing everything possible to minimise the impact on the poultry sector. The BFSA, in cooperation with Foreign Affairs, is making great efforts to prevent problems with the export of Belgian poultry, hatching eggs and other poultry products to third countries.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic603x.u4	Minister, I note that you are engaged in ongoing consultations with the Regions, which are responsible for this. That's very good. The problems for our poultry farmers are starting now. Part of Germany has found a very creative solution. They removed the obligation to store for one day and resumed on the next day. I'm not arguing for that. I think the risk is far too great, but that way those German laying hens were saved. The laying hens have invested in sufficient space to produce in a sustainable and healthy way. The difference with the organic eggs seems a little too big to me. I do not see a level playing field there and I would like to think about it and see how we can bring that level playing field or bring it closer together. That is also the question of the Landsbond, but once again, I am absolutely not arguing for things that we should not do. When I hear that six hundred thousand birds have been slaughtered in France in the meantime, a total of 3 million birds, I think we need to deal with this very carefully. You understand my concern for the laying hens.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic603x.u5	We are now in numbers, so we can move on to the bill. We will then return to the oral questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic603x.u6	The following questions have been transformed into written questions: No 16190 by Mrs Lanjri, No 16532 by Mrs Cassart-Milleux, No 16551 by Mrs Smaers, No 16584 by Mrs Cassart-Milleux, No 16671 by Mrs Winckel.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic603x.u7	Madam President, Minister, during the discussion of your policy note, you mentioned, on page 26, an ongoing reflection with the Minister of Public Health on a possible reorganization and/or optimization of the services of the FPS Public Health and the Federal Agency for Food Chain Safety (FCSA), related to the safety of the food chain, including animal and plant health. We then asked you whether, as part of this reorganization, you did not intend to require the publication of the declarations of interest of the experts of the AFSCA Scientific Committee. Each year, the Scientific Committee issues about twenty to thirty opinions, all of which are published on its website. It would be beneficial to publish these texts, especially since the European Food Safety Authority (EFSA) and the Higher Health Council (SHC) are proceeding in this way. You told us that the publication of conflicts of interest is a normal procedure, which is transparent, as soon as the experts give guidance, that you were not opposed to this idea and that you would discuss it with the relevant interlocutors. Since this discussion, by the Royal Decree of 25 December 2016, you have appointed the 22 members of the Scientific Committee of the AFSCA, from 25 January 2017, for a four-year term. The composition can be found on the website of the Scientific Committee. He was to elect a president and a vice-president on 17 February. Have you undertaken the necessary steps to require the publication of the AFSCA Scientific Committee's Statements of Interest? If not, when do you intend to do so?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic603x.u8	Mr President, independence is indeed of crucial importance for the Scientific Committee of the AFSCA, which is responsible for providing independent advice in the interests of food chain safety and public health in general. The Scientific Committee shall pay particular attention to the prevention and management of the risks of conflicts of interest through its internal functioning. To this end, several measures are planned to ensure the independence of the Scientific Committee. A first measure concerns the conditions imposed on applicants, who may not belong to the board of directors, management or staff of an establishment for profit, placing food products on the market and subject to control by the Agency. When submitting their application, the candidates sign a declaration by which they undertake to act independently of any external influence. Where appropriate, they shall make a statement indicating any interest which might be considered to be detrimental to the independence of the candidate. To date, this information has not been made public. It is mainly used to assess the independence and impartiality of the expert in individual cases, which is, of course, an inescapable and crucial quality - I would like to stress this point again, in the light of your question. A second step is the signing of a general statement on honour at the first plenary meeting. On this occasion, the members declare first that they do not belong to the board of directors, to the management, to the staff of a for-profit establishment placing food products on the market and subject to the control of the Agency; then they undertake to inform the chairman of the Scientific Committee if there is a change in this situation; and finally, they undertake to comply with the rules of procedure and the code of ethics of the Scientific Committee, which contain provisions relating to the declaration and management of interests. A third measure concerns the processing of individual files from 2017. Following a recent amendment to the Rules of Procedure, each member of the Committee, as well as external experts, must declare that there is no interest in each individual case. Where appropriate, the member or external expert shall declare that there is an interest which could compromise his or her independence and impartiality in the file. Statements of interest are then assessed by the Office and if there is a potential conflict of interest or conflict of interest, appropriate action is taken. Finally, at each plenary session and each meeting of a working group, the item on the declaration of interest is discussed. Experts presenting conflicts of interest and the measures taken shall be notified in the report of the plenary session and members or external experts having conflicts of interest shall be mentioned in the opinions; all opinions shall be made public. We have already, as a result of this provision, through the opinions made public and the fact that possible conflicts of interest are included, an advertising now organised of this situation of conflict of interest or potential conflict of interest. In addition, I have recently asked AFSCA to discuss with the Scientific Committee officials the possibility of making statements of professional interest generally public. As you can see, the file has progressed and we are currently looking at the possibility of going even further, that is to say to publish all the possibilities of declarations of professional interest, which is already the case today in the notices that are made public.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic603x.u9	Madam President, I thank the Minister for his answer. The first part of it contains elements that already exist in the current law which you have explained to us how it works. You are telling me that you are making progress on the issue of publishing possible statements of conflict of interest. I share your view especially as Europe does this by publishing them on its website. The desire for a request for publication seems to me a necessity in the interests of transparency. I have noted that you have asked the Scientific Committee to do so in practice. I therefore have to ask you the question of the timetable in order to be able to see on the site of the AFSCA, the publication of potential conflicts of interest. I would have liked to know the schedule in order to be able to view these elements on the site. Can you give me this additional answer?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic603x.u10	I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, following an amendment to the Rules of Procedure, part of the procedure is already applicable because, in the opinions, we now find statements of potential conflicts of interest and the measures taken. This component has already been implemented. As for the second part, I think that if you ask me again at the end of April, I can give you a definitive answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic603x.u11	Mr Minister, thank you and since you are setting me up, I also note it in my agenda.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic603x.u12	Question No 16730 by Mrs Winckel is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic603x.u13	A year ago, I asked you about pesticides in organic apples and pears following a study by Test-Achats. At the time, you were reassuring and made it clear that if the study showed traces of residues in these apples and pears, this could be explained, without justification, by the fact that certain substances are authorised for the treatment of apple trees or pear trees, as is not the case with copper, a substance which is therefore in the form of residues. You also stressed that the effect of multiple residues should be studied in greater depth and that the European Food Safety Authority (EFSA) was developing a methodology at the time. Finally, you pointed out that as soon as this methodology was finalized, you would analyse it in detail with a view to proposing further amendments to the current legislation. One year after your answer, can you tell us whether the European Food Safety Authority has developed the methodology you mentioned? If so, have you ever been able to take the necessary steps to amend the current legislation? Have any studies incorporating this new methodology already been carried out? If so, what are the results?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic603x.u14	This is an extremely important issue from the point of view of public health and it also appears to be very complex. Its purpose is to study the risks associated with, accumulated and associated with a combined, combined or mixed action of residues of chemical substances that would still be found in food products at the time of processing or consumption. This is a project on which EFSA, the food safety officer at European level, is working, and in particular through the launch in October 2016 of a very important initiative, which aims to develop several scientific methodologies to assess the risks associated with this complex issue of mixtures of chemical substances or residues. EFSA called on all stakeholders, mainly from the scientific world, but also from civil society, to contribute, even before the beginning of the actual work, to the definition of this major project entitled "MixTox", the well-evocative name of the objective. This project will necessarily fit into time. The work could take several months or even several years for later phases. The aim of EFSA is to collect the necessary data and to develop on this basis a series of tools, while bringing together international scientific expertise and regulatory authorities in Europe, and perhaps beyond. During this year, EFSA will regularly publish a series of technical reports on this tiered methodology for human risk assessment, of course, but also the ecological risks resulting from combined exposure to multiple chemicals in variable contexts. In 2018, EFSA will launch a broad public consultation, in which I invite everyone to participate, on a still provisional version of the general guidance document "MixTox". Without waiting for the European level, Belgium, in the framework of the Federal Pesticide Reduction Plan 2018-2022, has already taken into account the problem of the consumer's cumulative exposure to plant protection product residues via foods such as fruit and vegetables. In short, a large-scale project is being carried out at European level, involving civil society, stakeholders, regulatory authorities and, of course, the scientific community. I think we need to follow this "MixTox" project and get involved. This is a very important project. Furthermore, at Belgian level, the federal plan to reduce pesticides is now subject to consultation. As soon as it is adopted, we will act accordingly.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic603x.u15	Minister, I am pleased to have come back with this question. I note that the methodology is clearly defined. The objectives pursued are clearly identified. A timetable has been put in place, even if it seems to me slow or long. The implications which may arise under Belgian legislation are interesting. This important project seems more than interesting to me to work, if it is bought, at the level of causes and effects. Thank you for your answer. It would be interesting to follow, as you mentioned in your reply, the interim reports that will be made available to monitor the progress of this work.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic603x.u16	Minister, more and more complaints are being made by psychologists against the Psychologists Commission. The mission of the Commission is to protect the title, respect ethics in the exercise of psychology and the advice of public authorities in matters concerning it. The first complaint relates to the code of ethics drawn up in a collective manner with psychologists of different therapeutic currents and federations. In 2014, the Code was adopted but also amended, without consultation or agreement of the various federations and associations representing psychologists. However, as these recognized federations are not very numerous, it would have been possible to continue the work collectively. According to the lawyers consulted both in the north and in the south of the country, the code that imposed conduct that was unequivocally punishable by criminal law in the matter of professional secrecy has become a code that maintains the confusion between the obligation to disclose certain facts and the exceptional permission to disclose certain facts without incurring punishment. In the code adopted in 2014, it is recalled that: "Considering the intimacy of individuals and aware of the need for accessibility of the profession for all, the psychologist imposes a discretion on everything he learns in and through the exercise of the profession." This is not a problem except that it is added: "This includes, at a minimum, respect for professional secrecy as provided for by criminal law. Professional secrecy is of a public nature: the psychologist who has under his responsibility a client or subject is, in all circumstances, bound by professional secrecy." Article 12 states that: "The psychologist shall be released from his duty of discretion and shall not invoke him in all cases and situations where legislation compels him to disclose information, such as, for example, the cases of the obligation of denunciation provided for in articles 422bis and 458bis of the Criminal Code". We have already talked about these articles about the professional secrecy of social workers. In these circumstances, the psychologist is called upon to testify in court or before a parliamentary commission of inquiry. The State party is also requested to keep itself informed of all legislation. Psychologists and some of their federations deplore that they do not themselves impose a duty of discretion, assuming at least respect for professional secrecy, but that it is imposed on them by law under penalty of criminal punishment. It is therefore important not to confuse an exceptional permission to speak without being punished with an obligation to denounce. Several proposals have been submitted to you. If my information is correct, psychologists have met with members of your firm to suggest that they limit the scope of section 5. It states that: "The psychologist is concerned with the privacy of the person and aware of the trust that the use of his/her skills requires, he/she imposes a discretion on all that he/she learns in and through the practice of the profession." It provides for situations where the legislation allows the psychologist to break professional secrecy. It is also proposed to return to collective work on exceptions (cf. Articles 422bis, 458 and 458bis of the Criminal Code). In this case, the psychologist may disclose certain information protected by professional secrecy without being subject to prosecution where there is no other way to rescue a person in danger. Of course, when he is called to testify before the courts or to speak before a parliamentary committee, it is the psychologist's responsibility to measure the issues that will lead him either to disclose or to silence certain information. I would have liked to hear from you about the content of the articles of the code of ethics that seem to conflict with the obligations in terms of professional secrecy and those that have been modified without soliciting federations and different psychotherapeutic currents. The other dimension concerns the very functioning – considered opaque and undemocratic – of the Psychologists Commission, where several federations and psychotherapeutic currents are not represented in decision-making bodies. These increasingly numerous complaints prompt me to question you. In addition, an Order of Psychologists will be established and placed under your authority. Finally, the government is planning the establishment of a Senior Mental Health Council, which will depend on the Minister of Public Health. Again, questions are regularly addressed to the minister and we do not get information on how things are going. Minister, do you have any feedback on the problems that exist in this Commission of Psychologists? What have you done to resolve them or to recreate dialogue? How do you intend to require the Commission to adjust its code of ethics in order to comply with the articles of the Criminal Code relating to professional secrecy?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic603x.u17	Madam President, it is well known that the current legal framework provides that the terms of office within the Psychologists Commission are to be distributed among recognized federations in proportion to the number of members recognized by the Minister. In this regard, I refer to discussions with my colleague's office, the Minister of Public Health, on the creation of the College of Psychologists. The guidelines are not yet defined or confirmed. In the event of a change in the legal framework, the system of presentation of representatives will be modified so that they are elected by secret ballot from the list of registered psychologists instead of being appointed by the recognised federations. I cannot speak about psychotherapists or the Higher Mental Health Council. This is the responsibility of the Minister of Public Health. I can possibly be competent with regard to the College of Psychologists, but all this depends on the agreement that Maggie De Block and I can have; as far as I am concerned with the co-tutel on the independent/liberal aspects and as far as my colleague is concerned, for the whole public health component and all that is involved. At this stage, however, this model is not yet defined or confirmed. With regard to professional secrecy as reflected in the psychologists' code of ethics, as you pointed out, there was no change under this legislature. The current version of the Code was adopted in 2014 and has not since been the subject of any appeal or challenge before courts or other bodies, if any. However, I hear the debate that arose a few weeks ago about the professional secrecy of psychologists and their associated professionals. I would like to reiterate here how much I consider professional secrecy to be a major element of professional action, of the relationship, of the exercise of its competence by a health professional in the broad sense, of social action in the broad sense or of other sectors, subject to professional secrecy. It is a major element of our rule of law, of the exercise of these different functions and of the balance between the State and the citizen, whatever their situation at a given time. As far as I am concerned, therefore, I can only imagine restrictions, the lifting of this professional secrecy in very exceptional cases, in the face of circumstances which are equally so, or in the face of serious risks or gravity. This is obviously the case with regard to acts of terrorism. This was also the case for the social sector as a result of changes made if there is imminent and serious abuse and danger, particularly with regard to vulnerable persons, minors, etc. I therefore consider this issue of the regulation and the code of ethics of psychologists with the utmost attention. When I say that I am looking at it, it means that this is an approach that we have just started, a few days or a few weeks ago, to the maximum, when we were alerted by the actors in the sector and their representative structures. So I asked my administration and my team for a study. I don't know the results yet, in all sincerity. In consultation with the various interlocutors, I am ready to discuss the emerging malaise regarding the application of this element, in particular the code of ethics. In summary, I would like to point out that there has been no recent change. It dates back to 2014. There was no challenge under the usual channels of this code of ethics. There has been a more recent expression of difficulties, malaise or possible malaise in relation to this. We are currently studying this issue, which is an important but also complex one with all the attention it deserves. I am open to possible adaptations if it is found that these are necessary. Madam President, this is the status of the case, the state of competence with my colleague, my attitude, and indeed my very deep and strong convictions about professional secrecy and the very limited exceptions that can be made, if any, to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic603x.u18	Mr Minister, I thank you for the openness you have shown in your reply to the psychologists' representatives in order to examine how this code of ethics respects the limits and rules of professional secrecy, knowing that serious situations or abuse, the risk of a vulnerable person or the danger to society are already covered by the existing possibilities contained in Articles 422bis and 458bis of the Criminal Code. These obligations are necessary and the exceptions that apply to psychologists in their therapeutic relationship must be respected. For the rest, I would like to emphasize the discussions already held in the Chamber in the professional health skills of psychologists and psychotherapists. These discussions have clearly highlighted a difficulty for all psychotherapeutic currents and federations – here I am talking about the real psychologists and psychotherapists who have completed comprehensive training and have several years of experience. This difficulty lies in the representativeness of the various currents, organs and federations. You need to pay attention to the various internationally recognized currents such as the cognitive-behaviouralist plan, the analytical orientation plan, the systemic analysis plan and the humanistic family therapy. These currents exist and they have accumulated theoretical gains from Sigmund Freud to this day. If you do not take care to ensure a plural representation of these different currents in the organization and designation of future approved psychologists and in the development of the rules concerning the Order of Psychologists that will emanate from these discussions, we will have to face major problems to the detriment of the citizens. The quarrels between psychologists are one aspect, but the fact that there is a variety of interventions and care available to citizens is of course my primary concern. This subject has been raised since 2015 in relation to this amendment and this inadequacy of the code of ethics. Until the July law on psychotherapy, there was a belief to be able to settle this between them and not to put justice on the spot. For my part, I would like this to be settled with you and correctly between the different psychologists, otherwise they will go to court. What more will this bring, if not layers of conflict and unnecessary waste of energy? Minister, I will be coming back to you in some time to find out how things are moving forward as a result of the study you requested from your services.
