ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic642x.u1	Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, there are a number of oral questions on the agenda, addressed to the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Security and Home Affairs, on the subject of civil protection and its barracks. However, we have opted for an exchange of views. The Minister will first explain. After that, those who have submitted questions will be the first to be given the opportunity to ask their question, after which other fellow Members will be able to take up and take part in the debate with the Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic642x.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, many questions have already been asked in the near future about the forthcoming reform of civil protection. For a while, too long to my liking, I had to hold off the boat in order to make the final decision. Just before the Easter recess, we were able to complete the political decision-making process. I thought it would be useful to give the powerpoint presentation we gave during the Easter holidays to the press, to the various commanders of civil protection and to the trade unions, to the committee. If there are any further questions after that, which I can hardly imagine since I think most of the questions will be answered, I will, of course, be happy to answer them.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic642x.u3	Perhaps I can recall what I've always said? It's not a criticism, it's just a finding. In my view, it would have been preferable to implement the reform of the relief zones by incorporating civil protection reform and the reform of emergency medical aid. I think these three areas are closely linked. But it was decided to reform only the relief areas. This means that the other two construction sites remained open. That is why we have included in the government agreement some passages concerning civil protection, whose subsistence was the subject of discussion. The government agreement therefore provides for its continuation and we have already given an indication of the proposed reform by stating that it would provide specialized services under federal command. The second was the adjustment of the administrative and financial status of civil protection officers. And finally, we included in the government agreement that we would study the rationalization of the number of positions. That is what is provided for in the government agreement. We have therefore asked ourselves several questions from the beginning: - What are the tasks of civil protection? - Should they be changed as a result of the fire service reform? Indeed, the purpose of the reform was to provide for all urgent interventions in the relief areas. What would this mean for civil protection missions? - Once the missions were defined, what were the profiles of the collaborators we needed? - What organizational structures deserved civil protection? We also said in the government agreement that this reform should be done with a closed envelope. This means "no savings", but no enlargement of the budget either: let us be clear. As far as missions are concerned, I have already explained several times that civil protection will evolve. This decision was taken a year ago by the government. We want to evolve civil protection from a local front-line aid organisation to a highly specialized service provider. This means that rapid intervention is no longer a fundamental element. What are the current tasks of civil protection and the six existing positions? There are first special operations: for example, CBRN interventions (chemistry, biology, radiology and nuclear), dike rupture, B-Fast, police support under certain circumstances, specific skills and equipment, specialized and long-term interventions. In the current tasks, there are also front-line missions: firefighting, water supply, ambulance service, reinforcement of the local fire brigades as a special post in the emergency zone. For this last task, there are often historical reasons and in most cases it is a firefighter lining. This is what the current civil protection landscape looks like. Two criticisms can be made in this regard. Firstly, it is not logical and secondly, it is unfair. This is not logical because many missions, and certainly front-line and reinforcement missions to relief areas, are limited to the communes that are, by chance, in the environment of the civil protection barracks. Other relief areas therefore do not benefit from civil protection intervention. In our view, a federal service should not address a local issue. That is why the emergency zones have been created, which are strengthened and which have expanded tasks. We also believe that all citizens should be entitled to the same services, not just those in the vicinity of a civil protection barracks. I give you an example: why in Kapellen, which is close to Brasschaat, would there be more service than Maaseik, which is 150 kilometres from the nearest barracks? What should be the evolution of civil protection? Either civil protection is involved in support, special operations, but also front-line services. It is possible that such tasks could be assigned to civil protection. But that would mean that a civil protection unit must be provided in each relief zone, since the same service must be available throughout the territory. This option is not in line with the government agreement, nor with the closed budget envelope. And in fact, it would be contradictory to what we did for the police. At one time, the police and gendarmerie were operating in the same areas with the same tasks. There have been many disadvantages to this system. This model was therefore not chosen. We have opted for another model, where civil protection is responsible for special operations. This means that civil protection can be organised at national level. This option is consistent with the government agreement. Thanks to this organisation, we can guarantee budgetary neutrality. We are not saving money, but it does not lead to an extension of the budget either. We can thus make a parallel with the local police and the federal police. Organizing civil protection as a specialized service means that its tasks are exclusive and complementary to the tasks of relief zones. There is no talk of duplication of tasks between relief zones and civil protection. Civil protection will also be given complex and long-term missions. In this context, it will support the relief areas. What does that mean for civil protection? I've noticed it here a number of times. What are the civil protection missions? On the one hand, the CBRN section, which remains in the field of civil protection, on the other hand, the specialized tasks. The specialised tasks can be completed in two ways or with a combination of both, either because the competences are specialised or because the equipment is specialised. Each fire zone has auto pumps. At some point very heavy pumps may be needed, which the zones cannot afford. Those pumps will come from civil protection. There are therefore specialised competences or specialised material, for which it is not possible to provide for each zone. It can, however, be provided for in a globalised way, which is justified, as it can be used often enough. A third task package is of a long nature. Let me give you an example. The fire on the Kalmthoutse Heide lasted about 14 days. During that period, the services concerned were operational. Local areas cannot be expected to be able to do so on their own. In such cases, civil protection must therefore be able to act in a supportive manner. Today, there are two specific data from civil protection. Firstly, pollution at sea, which in one way or another has an urgent character. That is why we have decided that tasks related to pollution at sea will be transferred to the areas by the sea. A second specific feature is the specific service provision for SHAPE. Ghlin's barracks have specific services for the SHAPE. I will come back to it in a moment, but those tasks will be transferred to the fire zone. When we say that civil protection will in future be assigned specialised tasks and thus a specific service, it goes without saying that we need specialised staff and therefore an adapted statute. That is also provided for. We will upgrade the status of firefighters, both professionals and volunteers. We shall draw up this statute with the status of firefighters. That means for an ordinary civil protection officer the following. The statute is more than just pay. However, I am merely giving an example of pay. This means that there is a serious wage increase for those concerned, i.e. in the order of more than 20%. You will be able to look for a federal government agency which would suddenly be able to make such a wage increase through a reform. Why is it useful or appropriate for this statute to be aligned with that of the fire brigade? Because we see an additional advantage for professionals for easy mobility between local areas and civil protection, in both directions. On the one hand, I can imagine that firefighters in a local zone decide at some point to further specialise in a particular task. They will then see if they can't move on to civil protection. I believe that, should this mean a relapse in the statute, few would find any motivation in it. On the other hand, I can imagine that people from a certain age still want to make the move to the barracks of civil protection, but still want to respond to a vacancy in the fire department in their area. Even then, it may be interesting if these statutes are aligned. Moreover, it is about improved wage conditions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic642x.u4	Président: Brecht Vermeulen. For the volunteers, too, we would like to align this with the status of the fire department. That is why we are going to seriously broaden the possibilities for volunteers. They will have more responsibilities in civil protection, if they so wish, and recognition. That means they'll get the same uniform. For people in those functions wearing the uniform is often very important. They will also receive the same equipment and training. Volunteers in the fire department receive training similar to that of the professionals. Volunteers in civil protection can also take more responsibility and they can also follow the training provided by other civil protection agents. They can also receive identical promotions in identical careers as professionals. The comparison with the volunteers in the fire department is also here. The statute for volunteers also allows us to recruit specialists. These are specialists who may not be needed on a permanent basis, but who can be used as volunteers. I am thinking of dog counselors, people who can be used in dangerous substances or engineers with certain competences. Today it is not actually possible to recruit them as volunteers for these specialties. This is now being made possible. It also provides the opportunity to professionalise for those who want to move on as volunteers to the civil protection professional framework. This is also included in the Statute. This means that after the reform, all civil protection agents are by definition experts. They are also recruited on the basis of that quality. After all, between the present and the new members, a sort of selection will take place, so that the experts in civil protection remain. For those who cannot remain in civil protection, the question naturally arises as to what has been worked out for them and how they will be dealt with. First of all, I would like to say that we have made a commitment that the statutory staff will not be fired naked. We'll escort everyone in person. Given the scale of civil protection, which concerns several hundred members, this is feasible, while it is more difficult for the police, where we are talking about thousands of staff. We will therefore examine whether those who do not wish to remain or remain in civil protection can be accompanied to another mission within the government or outside the government if they choose to do so. What are we thinking? What are the career opportunities? A first possibility is to remain within civil protection. A second possibility is a switch to the fire department. In this context, I can immediately inform you that it is clear that when tasks are transferred, for example in Jabbeke, the sea-related tasks can be transferred, staff and equipment transferred and the corresponding budget transferred. The amount for the zone concerned will then be increased to cover the costs. The same applies to Ghlin for the tasks associated with the SHAPE. When there are vacancies in other areas, such as fire zones, they can of course be used. For those who wish we provide guided outplacement. Also with the federal government, so not with the firefighters and such, there are possibilities. You know that 112 is being recruited for the power stations. There is also a lot of recruitment at the Foreign Affairs Office, there are opportunities there too. Also with the police there are possibilities, at the special Directorate of Surveillance that we are installing. There are also possibilities in the Justice Department. A whole range of options will therefore be offered to those concerned. I am well aware that many civil protection agents belong to category D. We are currently discussing with the Minister responsible for Civil Service matters to adapt the mobility rules for category D persons in this particular case, so that they can make more flexible use of mobility within the federal government in order to implement the reform. Now I come to the question that puts everything else in the shadows. I regret that a bit, but understand it. We want to move to an organisation that has a clear mission in the safety chain, which was not so clear in the past, and from which urgency will disappear over time. That will not happen overnight, so those tasks will not be gone tomorrow. I'll come back to that later. We want to evolve into a second-line organisation that offers specialised tasks. That is why we need fewer units, so no more six units. We have opted for an organization with two units, one in Flanders and one in Wallonia. It seemed to us the best choice to evolve in that direction. As a result, we can concentrate the full-time equivalents, all the staff, on a reduced number of places, increasing the operational impact force. It also makes the unit of command, of procedures and of training bigger and easier. The concentration involves a more efficient use of deployment and material, as the same material should not be provided at different locations each time. That wouldn't make much sense. Moreover, concentration will bring together expertise. How have we made this assessment? There were three criteria to determine that. The fourth element, the residence of the Minister responsible, did not apply as a criterion, not for good or for bad. I have said this before and I repeat it: it is not because I live in Brasschaat that Brasschaat should be selected as a localization unit, but it is not because I live in Brasschaat that Brasschaat should not be. We've been trying to objectify. To that I can add the following for whom the beautiful municipality of Brasschaat would not know. You should visit Brasschaat and see where the barracks of civil protection are located. For the municipality, the disappearance of the barracks and the development of that area to a residential area near the golf course offered a lot of possibilities. As the titled mayor of Brasschaat, it was quite frankly me, with the hand on the heart, whether or not that barracks stayed there. If the barracks stayed there, that was good; then we could live with it. If that barracks had to leave, that beautiful piece of land could add value to the municipality, with a nice development. So my place of residence was absolutely not a criterion, not for good and not for evil. Then what were the three criteria? First of all, the investment cost. If barracks are closed and transferred to other barracks, grounds can be dismissed. That was mapped. Secondly, the cost of dilation. Driving from place A, B, C on one side and another of the language border, how many times has that happened in the last five years and what is the cost if we concentrate that? That's easy to calculate. Finally, the risk analysis. The new versus implantation tasks took into account the presence of Seveso plants. On this last point, we have identified a number of issues. Here you can see the situation of the current barracks of civil protection and the presence of nuclear sites. One nuclear site is of course not the other, Goal and Tihange have a different envergure than for example the nuclear research centre in Mol. This map shows the presence of Seveso companies. If we respected these criteria, we in Flanders arrived at the barracks of Brasschaat and in Wallonia at the barracks of Crisnée. I have just mentioned two specific tasks in the field of civil protection: the sea-related tasks and the SHAPE-related tasks. This is where these tasks are to be transferred to the assisted areas concerned. As far as SHAPE is concerned, the aid zone of Hainaut Centre and the sea-related tasks are that the aid zone of West Flanders 1. When I say "transfer tasks," this means that the funds are also transferred to the staff, the material and the budget in order to do so in the long term. As far as the buildings are concerned, we will sit down with the local stakeholders to see what is the best option. After all, that is still open. Do we integrate this into the existing fire department buildings, or do we retain some of the areas of civil protection to accommodate those functions? This is still under discussion with the local areas. It is necessary to consider the possible future destinations of those functions. That said, it is clear that a reorganization and transformation of this magnitude does not take place in one night. We are planning a period until 2019 to make these changes or rather this transition. Indeed, it is not a question of a sudden and brutal change, but of a transition in three years. As I have already said, there will be a personalized accompaniment of each agent; we will examine with him what is the most suitable solution. We will also gradually perform the clustering at the two selected sites. Negotiations with the social partners and trade unions will begin on 4 May. We have already met with the unions to explain the situation and we agreed to start negotiations on the status at the beginning of May. I hope that they will move forward quickly because it is important, when there is a status agreement, that we can take very concrete steps for staff. We will also begin discussions with the relief areas concerned, given the position of the six barracks. We will also meet with other departments to discuss the reassignment of barracks. The organizational chart will also be modified: to move from a situation to six units to two units will obviously have an impact on the organizational chart. The aim is to bring the new statute into force as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic642x.u5	In conclusion, the government agreement requires a reorganization within a closed budget envelope. In this context, I would also like to point out that the current budget and the budget after reorganization will remain the same, although the change represents a cost. Of course, we cannot achieve this future development without additional costs. The budget envelope represents today's situation compared to the future situation. In the meantime, we will have to bear some additional costs. We are moving towards a specialized service with complex and long-term missions. Both statutes will be aligned. I hope that it can be concluded that the civil protection status will be comparable in all respects to the status of the relief zones, with two units, Brasschaat and Crisnea, without dismissal. The following are the decisions that have been taken and will be implemented in the coming months. I am, of course, prepared to answer additional questions, if any. I am certainly open to answering additional questions, if they are already there; which I find difficult to imagine.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic642x.u6	Thank you, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, with your permission, I will go back to the list of the initial questioners. If Mr Vanden Burre wishes to ask his question, he may begin.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic642x.u7	Minister, it is natural that you have presented the subject of the debate, of the reform. So I am not going to make the whole introduction of my question, but I am going to focus on a number of points, which deserve further study. The main justification for defending this reform is your willingness to refocus civil protection missions, which are increasingly involved in tasks usually assigned to firefighters and other rescue services. In your view, civil protection should therefore play a second-line role behind rescue services when specialized work is required. Much discussion on this subject has already taken place. I would like to link this subject with other files in the same direction. The use of the key words "efficiency", "centralization", "rationalization", "optimization", etc., are intended to show us how much we restructure. Yet, a public service is being taken away from the population, one more. Your presentation of the reform here and in the press bears witness to this. I do not want to give you the benefit of the doubt, because the same debate took place in the framework of the laboratories of the scientific police, of the optimization of the central police services dealing with the fight against the great tax fraud, other services being not specifically of your authority, but of that of the government as a whole. The technical and complicated words on paper sometimes seem to open up to a better service to the population. Of course, we will see what happens in the coming months, but we are moving towards a reduction in the quality of public services. You say that there is inequality between citizens according to their place of residence, depending on whether there is a barracks close to their home or not. But it is your vision of the situation, which is not ours. We could reply at a time when the number of public services should be increased. Beyond the whole presentation and the reactions that we have already seen in the press, that is what I wanted to insist on before moving on to more specific questions. I think that is really the consistency of this government in its reforms. Certainly you at the level of the Ministry of the Interior but also your colleagues in Justice or others, you are systematically moving towards dismantling, towards decapitation - no matter what the word - of services to our fellow citizens and again, especially for those who are sometimes the furthest from it and who need it the most. The disappearance of these services affects them even more than those living in urban areas or in more populated areas. More than a great fear, it appeals to us a lot. It is a constant in this government's public services policy. We can only regret it! More specifically, on civil protection reform, you are talking about the negotiations that began with the trade unions in early May on the reform that you presented. What will be the government's objective or yours in these negotiations? Does that mean that the reform is still amendable? Can we imagine that on some aspects of the distribution of workers, there are still things that can change whether at the barracks itself or at the settlements? In concrete terms, what is the government's roadmap in these negotiations? What room for manoeuvre remains in relation to possible amendments to this reform? One issue that is obviously related is the 479 full-time equivalents currently in operation. How are you going to go through both a downsizing? Via a pre-pension plan and through reassignments? Can you give us the exact details or at least your vision of this distribution? I also wanted to ask you a question about the impact assessment. One of the criticisms that we have heard regularly and that is directly related to the public service to the public is the delay of intervention when there is a problem. The response time will obviously increase significantly in the event of a disaster, as the number of barracks is drastically reduced. Has an impact assessment been carried out in relation to the current response times and those they will be tomorrow in the new civil protection landscape you are proposing? Finally, specifically, regarding the Ghlin site, you mentioned in your presentation that it was a particular site since it is located near specific areas. Last week, a report showed an MR communal advisor, Mr.Bouchez, who was going to explain the reform to employees. I think we should not sell dreams or tell workers things that are wrong because they are the first to be affected and, like us, you know the level of concern in all these barracks, and especially in those that are destined to disappear. During this communal council, workers were told that this was still a reform at the still amendable proposal stage, but that seven agents would remain at the Ghlin site and that the entire staff would be taken over in the relief zone. You've told us a little bit about it, but can you confirm it because it's what was announced to the staff present, which is in contradiction with your first announcements? What exactly is the situation for the Ghlin site and its staff?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic642x.u8	Mr President, I thank the Minister for this presentation. As his speech is more developed, I will do the same for various questions. I would like to address four points. The first concerns the principles of organisation, the second concerns the choice of barracks and its consequences, including in relation to their specificities, the third concerns the security aspect for the population and fourthly, the issues related to the whole staff. With regard to the first part, you are telling us that today you are aiming at the creation of a specialized service where speed is no longer important and it is not located around the municipalities of the rescue zones. I share your view that all citizens should have the same service wherever they live. However, when you tell us today that civil protection works a little by chance in the surrounding communes, and some colleagues in the province of Hainaut will not deny me, you are in an inquisitive way restricting the analysis of the file. Indeed, the operational unit of Ghlin does not only work in the municipalities bordering the barracks; it covers the province of Hainaut as well as the municipalities of Walloon Brabant and the province of Namur which are not in its immediate surroundings. You say, and some colleagues in the province of Hainaut will not deny me, that it is by chance that she comes a little in support of the relief zones and that she works a little "to the right franquette", showing amateurism. I find this unacceptable: you narrowly shorten the point. I agree that we need the same service for the entire population. It's obvious. But by centralizing things as you do, by choosing two barracks, you no longer allow the whole territory to be covered in the same way, on the contrary! Despite the principle that you supposedly want to follow, you choose to aggravate the situation. Indeed, with the disappearance of four barracks, two barracks will be largely excavated. I can understand the principle of specialization, complementarity, but I do not follow you when you say that speed is no longer a fundamental element. How can disasters be managed in a few specific areas - nuclear, bacteriological, chemical, etc. – when it takes two hours to travel between Crisnée and Mouscron, 1:40 a.m. between Crisnée and the Boots du Hainaut or Chimay? This is a strange management, responsible for disasters, unless you say that each relief zone will be able to assume this role in the event of a disaster. If you make this choice, it will cost you a lot more. And there will be a need to increase the necessary expertise in all emergency areas. This is not at all what you have explained, which clearly demonstrates that your choice will lead to a decrease in the safety of the population compared to the disasters that may occur, in which case the emergency is actually required. Président: Brecht Vermeulen.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic642x.u9	I agree that the same service must be available everywhere, but I absolutely do not follow you on how you proceed because you are doing exactly the opposite. You say you have taken economic, operational criteria that I will not recall to justify the choice of the barracks of Crisnea and Brasschaat. Your slides were interesting, but we don't have many objective elements. You say you've based yourself on that and decided. I would like to have more information on these allegedly objective elements, including all the intervention statistics for the six barracks, not only with regard to the specific role of the areas of the sea and SHAPE, but also with regard to their interventions concerning the famous specialized services that you want to redefine. I would like to see transparency on these criteria and on the figures that justify your so-called objective decision. Still on the choice of barracks, I mentioned a few examples of distances and times of intervention according to certain types of disasters, but there are still other elements that challenge me. I am less familiar with the specific situations surrounding the barracks in Flanders, but I would still like to take the example of the barracks in Ghlin. Indeed, at SHAPE level, there is a specific mission. But it's not just this one. After Antwerp, Hainaut contains the most Seveso sites. No word either about Chièvres where an American air base is established. Suddenly, she doesn't exist anymore! On these points, I would like to hear a little more from you. I believe that the door may not be closed, so I am engulfing in it, since the Mons NCM made great statements that the situation was absolutely not decided for the Ghlin barracks. But you say exactly the opposite today. I quote the MR of Mons: "Ghlin's barracks are not in the closet." There will remain staff and it will not, as you say, be transferred to the fire zone to deal with the specific mission of SHAPE. On the contrary, the Mons NCM had discussions with Law Street 16, and the Ghlin barracks would be maintained, unlike the Libramont barracks. Is there a government decision on the choice of barracks? Is there a government decision to close four of the six barracks? Are discussions still under way with a negotiating area? You will understand that from the moment some government parties talk about the possibility that it will not be put in the closet, especially from the Prime Minister's party, I dare hope that this is not bullshit and that we do not play with the staff of the Ghlin barracks - I would remind you that they are 120 - and that we also do not play with the companies concerned, particularly the Seveso areas, or with specific sites such as SHAPE and Chièvres. The third part concerns the safety of the population. Minister, your responsibilities are fundamental to security. Your responsibility is not just to work on the budget components, even if this government has a very accounting logic. But your responsibility is to commit yourself to the safety of the population and to the economic security of the companies concerned. I would like to know how disaster management interventions have been modelled on the basis of a so-called very out-of-date centralisation, based on the two barracks maintained. What are the response times? Which models of disasters and risks, including nuclear, bacteriological and chemical hazards? What guarantees can be clearly issued? What are the objectives for responding to such disasters? These questions are fundamental! If the position is to say: "The emergency areas are there and the firefighters will only have to manage", I wait to see how this is going to be managed, both in terms of staff and expertise. If it is to say, tomorrow, to the firefighters: "Draw up, go to the spot, we send you the civil protection of Crisnée which will take two hours to arrive", we play with the safety of the staff and, in particular, the firefighters. That would be as unacceptable as playing with the security of the citizen. Finally, I want to talk about the personnel side. I think you play with the feet of this staff when you have several versions within the government and when it concerns so many people. I repeat, this is unacceptable. I'd like an explanation from you. There's going to be a reduction in staff – you're talking about reassignment, not lay-off – you've talked about volunteers, statutory staff, I haven't heard anything about contract workers. They're legitimately worried. I've seen several numbers in the press. You indicate that 163 of the 479 officers would be reassigned. Of these 163 officers, how many will be reassigned to the relief areas? How much will be reallocated to the security response? It is good to reassign them to the Office of Foreigners, but let me tell you that this is not their current training. We cannot therefore speak of a reassignment in security matters. Announcements are made. You mentioned a pay increase of more than 20%. Minister Borsus, in a major flight in the province of Luxembourg, spoke of at least 30% of salary revalorisation. Let me say that you're playing with the staff's feet. It's not acceptable, it's bullshit! If there is an agreement in the government, and the figures are presented in a nice way in front of a local interlocutor concerned by his province, that is not correct, because there will be disappointments. A meeting is scheduled for 4 May. From what I heard in the presentation, except in the alternative speech that was delivered by several members of the MR, including a member of the government, I had the impression that everything was closed. Will the meeting on 4 May only be used to re-explain what has been announced in the press? Or is there still room for negotiation at the government level, given the differences of appreciation? Or is there a real negotiating space with the first experts in this area, namely the actors on the ground who know their region, which would make it possible to really take into account the issues of security, intervention, efficiency and speed in disaster management situations? Mr President, I would not like to see the first disaster that will take place after the reform in two years' time, to say that the elements I have mentioned have not been taken into account and that this will lead to loss of life, either in the relief areas or in the population.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic642x.u10	Minister, you are establishing a link between the two elements: to review the tasks of civil protection and to remove the settlements. We can discuss the redefinition of civil protection tasks again, but even if we agreed with you on this redefinition - which is not necessarily the case - this does not mean that we are obliged to remove settlements. There is no link between the two and the objective is clearly – this is an aspect of your government's policy – the dismantling of the public service, which involves the removal of establishments. This can be seen at the level of the Department of Justice, the Department of Finance, etc. It's really a public service disconnection. The logic is the same in the present case, but you try to drown it, mask it with fireworks that are not very effective. In your opinion, the budget remains unchanged. In that case, I'd like to understand what it's going to be for, since you're cutting down the settlements. A priori, there are fewer costs. You're mostly cutting down on the staff. Today, there are 46% more staff than what will remain tomorrow (458,313 if my figures are correct). Even if you raise their salary by 20%, we can't do it. So how do you explain the maintenance of the budget? What will be done if there are fewer locations to fund and fewer staff? To drink? Okay! Apart from your humorous answer, I'd like you to give me a serious answer, if there is one. Do all staff have the choice to stay or, depending on certain specificities or training, would some be obliged to leave? If so, is there internal mobility within the public service? What is the perimeter within which they are to be assigned? What are the wage conditions that will be theirs? Will they keep their current salary? For those who remain, the question arises of the distance between the home and the place of work. Indeed, the Ghlin-Crisnée route still represents 250 km a day and 2 h 40 of journey in the best case. It's a cost and it's also a waste of time. What do you expect at the staff cost level? What do you expect for lost time? When you lose 2 h 40 a day, do you get compensation? The Directorate-General for Civil Protection prohibited workers from speaking to the media. Do you justify this censorship, this form of dictatorship against staff?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic642x.u11	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic642x.u12	You like North Korea! One day you'd have to make the trip because you're obsessed with this country! That's amazing! Generally speaking, when we come up with this kind of argument, it means that we don't have much on the current discussion. On the choice of settlements, I still see a contradiction. On the one hand, you are telling us that four out of the six settlements can be removed because there is no more urgency and there will be no more urgent tasks and therefore proximity is not important. But when you justify the choice of remaining settlements, you say that you have to leave them in Brasschaat because there is the proximity of Seveso sites, a nuclear site, etc. I don't understand. On the one hand, you say that the proximity and the intervention time are not important, on the other hand, you justify the choice with the argument of proximity and therefore of the intervention time. I do not want it to be related to the fact that you lived in Brasschaat, but we should at least come with some serious arguments on the choice of these settlements. It is true that you come with three criteria, including the one that I have just removed, but beyond these criteria, even if they are not very serious, you should show how you apply these criteria and how you come to the conclusion that the two locations chosen are the two locations that best meet the criteria envisaged. Can you tell us how many personnel will be transferred to SHAPE assistance missions for Ghlin and northern pollution? What budget does that represent? In the event of a nuclear disaster, is civil protection not likely to be paralysed as far as it is in the evacuation zone? Your reform plans to assign a series of tasks to firefighters, including front-line tasks. This poses a problem for civil protection, but also for firefighters. In fact, they already have too few resources. Their budget fell between 2016 and 2017. Near my home in La Louvière, you can see calicos in front of the fire station for years. Indeed, since they cannot strike, they are reduced to laying calicoes to denounce their situation. This is not about their work situation, but rather about the lack of resources they have to intervene properly to save people. This is a fundamental problem. I know firemen from La Louvière. They have been complaining about this situation for years. They are facing a funding problem. For years, their trucks were from I don't know what a century. And now they're going to have to do new tasks. The question arises as to who should finance the 2007 reform. In any case, in your opinion, minister, it's fifty-fifty. The municipalities pay half and the federal government pays half. However, if we look at the reasons for the 2007 bill and the law itself, it is clear that it is the federal government that must fund up to a 50/50 allocation. However, it is far from this distribution, since today the distribution is rather 80/20, 80% for municipalities and 20% for the federal government. I can provide you with the 2007 legislation, the explanatory memorandum, the sections of the law that explain this. Have you planned to inject the money needed to finance these new tasks in accordance with the new rules of law? Beyond that, what is planned to increase the budget? If the question of the distribution of effort arises, today there is also this imperative need to increase the budget for firefighters because the situation is already catastrophic, not to mention the tasks required by civil protection. With the latter, the situation would be even worse.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic642x.u13	As has long been anticipated, the choice of barracks is established. I'm not saying that everything was decided, but it's been a long time since we talked about Crisnée and Brasschaat in the services of the Internal FPS. You seem to have cut it. I am very surprised by the motivation you give to this reform. I don't understand you well: you're talking about unfair operation in some places. Perhaps, but in Hainaut province, we have the Ghlin barracks, which carry out civil protection missions and nothing else. For the moment, we are not in a situation where ambulances are travelling around the Ghlin barracks, depending on their situation. It doesn't happen that way. In Ghlin, there are no larger missions for communes near the barracks. For example, for the province of Hainaut, as was said earlier, for part of Walloon Brabant and Namur, this motivation for equity of intervention does not correspond to reality. You also say that we are not going to change the overall envelope. So this is not a fiscal economy motivation, and I find it difficult to understand the true motivation of this reform, which, like other reforms of this federal government, once again removes the public service from the citizen and diminishes proximity. He was seen with the contribution offices and in other files. You take the example of police reform, but I don't think it's good. Thus, in my commune, a crime has been committed recently. The PJF went down to the scene. We waited for a specialized inspector for almost two hours. You know that the PJF is no longer at the level of the old boroughs, but depends on the entire province, in this case Hainaut. This means that someone can be called while living two hours' drive from the location of the intervention. In my commune, we waited for a specialized inspector for two hours at a crime scene! Thank you for the reform! Once again, this shows a distance from the citizen. When a crime is committed, today we call the PJF. It is not necessarily the services of the police zone that are involved. Even today, within the police, federal intervention is needed. No one's contesting it. I come to the choice of barracks. Our colleague has just pointed out this with relevance: we cannot justify, on the one hand, proximity to large companies and support, on the other hand, that the philosophy of your reform aims to offer a service that would not require proximity. This is not going well at all. Moreover, it cannot be said that this position covers the whole country. The municipality of Brasschaat is the northernmost, while Crisnaeus, on the linguistic border, is very close to Flanders. You have to be clear. I know that in general, you are objective. I would therefore like to believe you when you say that it is not because you are the mayor of Brasschaat that this one was chosen. I'd like to hear it, but you're not enough of that choice. As my colleague has said, you should bring us statistics instead of just showing us maps with circles that appear for a few seconds. In Ghlin, there's a lot of anxiety. In the province of Hainaut, we have the largest number of Seveso companies after the province of Antwerp. Therefore, if there is a big "sût", we will have to wait longer than the inhabitants of Antwerp to be rescued by specialized units, especially in terms of chemical intervention. Then there's the staff problem. We are talking about the possibility for civil protection officers to switch to emergency areas. You said there would be consultations with the rescue areas. I am Vice President of the Hainaut Centre Rescue Area, at which I attended this morning. I can tell you that we are concerned about this reform, particularly as regards how it will be implemented. Civil protection officers are not firefighters; they do another job. And finally, we're gonna ask them to become firefighters. This will not be done naturally; training will be required, which will lead to costs. Will they have the will to do so? And if the agents of the Hainaut province want to remain federal agents and follow the philosophy of your reform, they will have to drive two hours every day to get to Crisnea. I think it will be complicated for them, even if - let's be honest and let's go to the end - there will probably be a salary increase at the key, since you said you were going to increase the scales to align them with those in the emergency areas. For the staff, it will therefore be complicated. There will be negotiations and believe that it will not be simple; not more with the authorities in the areas, than with the social partners, the trade unions. There is also the question of equipment. You know that in every civil protection barracks, there are specific equipment, that there are not in all areas. So from the moment new missions are assigned to the zones, the latter will have to equip themselves accordingly. I'm going to give you a pretty classic example: the sealing units. At the Ghlin Civil Protection, there is a blockage unit that municipalities use, for example, when a vehicle hits a facade and there is a problem of building stability. The civil protection truck then comes with equipment, specialists to quench. From now on, it will be the emergency areas that will have to do so. But instead of the Ghlin barracks, there is not a single rescue zone, but six or seven. This means that it will take six or seven squeezing units. Additional costs in the acquisition of equipment will result from your decision to reform the civil protection services. And I assume that these additional costs will then have to be funded by the federal government, since we are still in the philosophy of emergency service reform. I would like you to confirm that all the additional costs of continuing the reform of the relief services will be borne by the federal state. Other departments have competence in this area. When a chemical spills from a truck on a road, it is not only the firefighters who clean up, but also the civil protection. Prior to the reform of the fire department, volunteers who came to the field were not equipped to clean a chemical from a truck in a small town. It was then civil protection that was called. According to the reform, all relief areas will have to intervene in such cases and will therefore have to equip themselves with the necessary equipment, which is an additional cost. In the same way, a break in the dike demands sandbags: our emergency areas will have to be equipped with machines preparing sandbags. This statement may seem basic to you, but it concerns a very concrete reality. Was there a government decision? When was it taken? I would like to know our possibilities to go to the Council of State against this decision, which undermines the general interest and the security of citizens. What timing are you planning? Finally, I would like to address the mission of helping the nation. When you remove the barracks in Libramont, a huge geographical territory is found without the help of civil protection. Have you considered replacing the missions of assistance to the nation that civil defence was carrying out with a defence intervention? Have there been any negotiations with the Defence?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic642x.u14	Mr. Chair, Minister, as one of the last speakers, I will not repeat everything that has been reported, but I share all the comments that have been made regarding the role and missions of the public service and the possible distance following the closure of the Ghlin barracks. My colleague, Mr Thiébaut, has just mentioned some of the events that have taken place near Ghlin but, personally, remaining much further, in Picardy Wallonia, I realize that I need the services of this barracks. Can you assure me that your reform will not affect the safety of the inhabitants of Picardy Wallonia, which within two years, will be located several tens of kilometres from the site of Crisnea? My colleague has also addressed the issue of additional resources. If other interventions are allocated to the relief areas, what means will they have? Will the equipment currently available in the closed civil protection barracks be allocated to the relief areas? If so, will Hainaut and the Picardy Wallonia area benefit from equipment and what will it be? How will you ensure that staff in these areas are trained and qualified to carry out these specific tasks? Will there be civil protection personnel assigned to the rescue zone of Picardy Wallonia? It seems to me that no, all staff would stay in the Hainaut Centre area. I would like a clear answer in this regard.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic642x.u15	Mr President, Minister, much has already been said and I will try not to repeat anything. If that's the case, it's because I was temporarily absent. Firstly, I understand that the reform you are proposing is based on a study. Is there any way to get a look at that study? That could objectify the discussion. Secondly, a great deal has already been said about it by other fellow Members, including outside this committee. As a result of the reform, it was apparently no surprise, study or study for anyone. You say that speed is not an essential criterion, but they do not understand that out here. I think I can speak on behalf of all the mayors of my region, regardless of their colour, background or ideological belief. They really do not understand that, for a centrally located post such as Liedekerke, with its fresh infrastructure, which is responsible for the second-line operation of many zones and of a region which is difficult to reach at certain times such as the Brussels border, speed is not an important criterion for strengthening as a second-line service. We will have to look closely, also from the study, whether there are arguments that undermine or relativise the importance of speed. I agree, however, that civil protection is also faced with the challenge of specialisation. You mentioned three tasks, but one of them remains vague. I am referring to the scope and scope of the search and rescue service and who specialises in it. The question is what the mission search and rescue is right. When I hear that term, I think of the problems that may arise at sea and which are usually picked up by the army on the coast: shipwrecks and shipping that is in danger. I do not think this is consistent with the concentration movement you see at the expense of the west of the country, of Jabbeke and that region. I would like to ask a more general question about the status of the people. You have pointed out that there will also be guidance, that outplacement will be offered, that people will have opportunities, including with federal government agencies, that there will be opportunities. You referred to the 911 service, to the Foreign Office, including fire department. The question I have on this matter is whether some sort of posting is being considered? Has a mobility scheme been created to enable these people, in their search for new challenges, to base themselves on this scheme as we know it in the police system, so that they do not automatically compete with the outside world? Is there any provision for that? Is this purely about directing existing vacancies within the federal government to the various departments or is there some kind of regulation in the making? Specifically as far as Liedekerke is concerned, I want to witness the fact that the whole region and all the mayors, including N-VA mayors, are really worried about the security effects or the lack of security that will result in the pulling away of Liedekerke's barracks. I have already witnessed the speed but also efficiency of the service from Liedekerke. The mayors of municipalities at the bottom of the ring around Brussels know that they will be served from Brasschaat in the future, first the ring of Antwerp and then the ring of Brussels, fear that this will jeopardise security services. I understand their fright marvellousness. I understand that Liedekerke's municipal board will even take the Council of State with a procedure. On the other hand, I have also seen the nuance from the local N-VA department of Liedekerke that advocates that the firehouse that is relatively new would be made available effectively to the fire zone Flemish-Brabant-West. Minister, is that something you are thinking of or are you going to join in the Unisono speech of all the mayors of the 32 municipalities to consider keeping Liedekerke open?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic642x.u16	Minister, I would like to thank you and your staff for the detailed presentation. I think it's good to put an end to a period of uncertainty. I have also heard from previous speakers that there is not so much a discussion about the need for reform. The emphasis was often placed on geography and accessibility, which is understandable. In addition, I have two short but not insignificant questions, if we are to link this to civil security and fire-fighting reform. I myself am on the board of the Edge relief zone, with 21 municipalities, with 850 employees, 800 volunteers. In his presentation, the Minister made it clear that there would be an amended statute and specialised staff. The volunteer was also briefly discussed. I would like to ask whether the volunteer still has a clear role to play in the new civil protection. Within the world of civil security, there has always been a movement that seeks to integrate civil protection into the fire department. As from 1 January 2015, the aid zones shall also have their own legal personality. There might have been a momentum to integrate civil protection into that fire department. That chance wasn't really taken. Is there a specific reason for that?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic642x.u17	Mr President, Minister, civil protection reform is a bit like a cream pie and at the same time it is a difficult subject. Indeed, when one wants to reform, one touches on a whole series of things, on a whole series of conservatisms. Paradoxically, conservatives are not always where one believes and reformers either. What seems to me to be well founded in what you said is that in its time, when we imagined the reform of fire services, we should have, directly and at the same time, reformed civil protection. Unfortunately, this has not been done. This may seem too important to undertake at once. Or we wanted to wait until we could assess the reform of the fire services, see if it works well or not yet well enough, as my colleague Eric Thiébaut pointed out earlier. I think we also have to evolve over time. We must not be against a reform because it is the work of a minister of the interior who does not necessarily like you; and here I am not talking about myself, of course. I also believe that a whole range of parameters must be taken into account, including the men and women who support the institution of civil protection. I am particularly familiar with Ghlin's civil defence, since her commander is a close friend. She and I have already talked a lot about this and we have a bit of differing opinions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic642x.u18	I confirm it!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic642x.u19	However, there are still a whole series of questions. Minister, thank you for your clear presentation, not to answer all the questions – you may have noticed – but to move the Schmilblick forward. The questions that have just been asked by my distinguished colleagues are all avenues for improving civil protection reform during the 2017-2019 transition period. First of all, let us talk about the staff, because what makes civil protection work is, of course, the equipment, but it is also the staff. Currently, there are 476 operational full-time equivalents in civil protection. For her new skills, she would need 313 full-time equivalents. Of the remaining 163, a number would be transferred to the relief areas of West Flanders (for Jabbeke and the particular problem of the coast) and the Hainaut Centre (for the SHAPE area). You didn't mention any numbers, but as far as I know, it would be 16 people for these two services. Could you confirm the number of people I have just indicated? On what basis are these figures determined? Is it based on a detailed study of the specific needs of the two issues? What will be the procedure for transferring to fire zones? In the event that there is no application for this transfer to the fire areas, would there be any application for other services, such as 112 or others? Or are we going to wait (and here it would be interesting to check the age structure of the staff) for some people to retire? How many people would be affected? With regard to specific missions, I remember the time when Braine-le-Comte had its communal fire department, which was much more operational and equipped with many other fire services. In some cases, we called for civil protection, especially when there was wind and a number of houses had to be tarnished. We could have taken on certain tasks ourselves, but since we knew that civil protection was available, it was being used to do so in our place, more quickly and in a better way. The problem has been a little different since the establishment of the fire zones, even if they do not yet work as they should, in any case that of Hainaut Centre, for various reasons. My colleague Thiébaut can also tell you about this, because we were in the same college and fire zone council. To return to the specific tasks of civil protection in the future, it would be interesting to reflect more on this subject. You said it wouldn't be in place, and it shouldn't be in addition. But who will determine when civil protection can intervene? Is it when the fire zone does not have enough resources, or does it have no means, even if it should have? Will funding be transferred and covered by the fire zone? At the same time, will fire zones be required to have equipment or equipment that is not necessarily there? Will there be federal ownership of such equipment in this case? You also mentioned a closed envelope. You said that, of course, reform will cost more when it starts. The Ministry of the Interior will therefore take charge of this supplement. The year 2019 will be equal to 2017 at this level. Is this envelope really closed or are you still considering indexing? Otherwise, this closed envelope will be a restricted envelope. We talked about the operational staff but not the administrative staff. For the two barracks maintained, the number of administrative staff is estimated at 11. Does this number correspond to the current reality for the six barracks? If not, what about the future of administrative collaborators? Will there also be a reflection on the transfer of these administrative staff and will they be supported? The issue of statutory and contractual issues was raised by some. This question also seems interesting to me to consider. How will they be transferred? Is it in the same way depending on whether they are contractual or statutory? In your slide, you mentioned the four reasons for Brasschaat's choice. The choice of Crisnea, of course, is not due to the presence of a minister in this region, since there are none. There is just one chairman of the Justice Committee, but I would like to point out that in Libramont, the mayor is of the same political colour. We cannot therefore advance the reason for the political colour for the choice of Crisnee since in Libramont, it is also an MR who is burmese. Where the debate is interesting, it highlights the fact that for too long too little attention has been paid to the functioning and tasks of civil protection, which plays an important role for Belgium (and this is also the case in other countries). It is also interesting to look at what is happening in neighbouring countries in terms of civil protection and to stick – I am a convinced European – to reality in other countries. I do not entirely agree with some of the comments made by my distinguished colleague (since only one woman has spoken, I imagine she will recognize herself) in terms of proximity. The number of kilometres in flight of birds is just as important as the facilities in terms of motorways. From this point of view, the choice of Crisnaeus seems more justified than the others. I'm Hainaut, too, and I support Ghlin. About Ghlin, it would be maintained with a number of collaborators (which you will define) for certain missions devolved to the SHAPE or the American Air Force. Personally, as a European, I hope that in the long run, the Americans will no longer be there. But that is the case at the moment. Minister, will the maintenance of the vehicles and buildings in Ghlin and Jabbeke, in addition to the staff, always be handled by the Civil Protection Department? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic642x.u20	Mr President, I would like to put four points in the debate: point one on the decision itself, point two on the fate of the barracks, point three on the volunteers and point four on a proposal I would like to make. First of all, the decision itself. It is good that a decision has been made at some point. It would be untenable to wait another year or two with a decision. I welcome the upgrading of the status of the people. The trade unions had a point in that regard when they insisted on a decision, whatever it may be. It would not be a matter of responsibility if we did not reform civil protection or allowed it to continue for another two years without any context. So I absolutely agree that there should be a decision. I go into the content of the decision itself. It was a battle between specialization and proximity. I understand the argument that one cannot equip every barracks in the same way, that one cannot put the same equipment everywhere. This is not feasible in budgetary terms and does not make any organizational sense. However, there is also the argument of proximity. Major disasters also have a proximity aspect. It's not because it's a major catastrophe that suddenly proximity wouldn't be a concern anymore. In that trade-off between specialisation and proximity I would assume that that is not news have made a different decision. Secondly, let me take a look at exactly what that means for the barracks. In Jabbeke we will see what we can do, thank you for the proposals in this area. For Liedekerke Zaventem is nearby. I once argued against Brasschaat. I also believe that a port with so many Seveso companies should have very active civil protection in its vicinity. There's no question about that. I kept that line: from the start I said I didn't argue against Brasschaat, I'm not against Liedekerke either. I was for Jabbeke, too. As far as I am concerned, if three barracks were left open, because that was a good balance for me between specialisation and proximity: one cannot put the same material everywhere against the argument of proximity. For me, that was in balance. That is why, thirdly, I have a question about the volunteers. For example, the volunteers of Menen. How exactly will that work if there is no more barracks in West Flanders and the volunteers are in Menen? What exactly is the idea behind that? I'm glad they're getting some kind of upgrade and wearing the uniform, but what exactly does it mean to volunteer for civil protection in Menen with a barracks in Brasschaat? How does that work in practice? My fourth and final point is a question which I ask in good faith. I am a legalist and I know that a decision has been taken, but I also believe that we should accept our responsibility. The CBRN risk derivatives, the so-called column 2, are centralized in Brasschaat and Crisnée respectively. The question is whether this applies to all CBRN risk derivatives. I'm declaring myself. When a certain chemical plant explodes, I understand that highly specialised material is needed and I would understand the logic of the decision to centralize it in two large barracks somewhere in the country. However, minor incidents are also possible. We had an incident in Zevekote where a tank suddenly started leaking. That's a serious incident, but it's not the end of the world. This is a particular type of incident falling into a particular category of light, medium or large dynamometer. That's where it's right. I have said that, fortunately, civil protection was there. However, she came from Brasschaat and BASF to solve the problem, which I can understand operationally. Jabbeke's actually already in the new system. Jabbeke's barracks are also getting smaller. However, what is happening de facto is that the tank of the manure processing plant in question is not about a chemical plant entering the air suddenly starting to leak. Fortunately, local civil protection has special suits and makes measurements. The civil protection of Brasschaat then comes, but does not have the good equipment, after which the competent department of BASF comes. My point is that for this type of incident we may be able to provide for something per province. This is my specific proposal and also my question, which I put on the table in good faith, which is why the zones are equipped for such incidents. For example, a fire zone, such as zone South or zone North 1, could be given responsibility for this. Additional funds could then be allocated so that a number of packages could be available in that area and a credible first pick per province could happen. Thus, before these minor incidents, we do not find ourselves in the situation that the only thing that can be done by local civil protection is to carry out measurements, after which it can only hope that Brasschaat will be pulled out quickly. The same applies to Wallonia. If there is a chemical incident in the province of Hainaut, I am not talking about an ultra-large explosion, but about a relatively small incident, does it not make sense that a certain equipment is available in that province, so that effective and curative action can be taken, not merely the facts must be established and waiting, until the Route de la Wallonie arrives from Crisnée? I think this could be in the government's favor, too. If the agreement comes through and there is such an incident and it is objectively said that we have had to move from one and a half to two hours, then I think we are in a difficult situation. The decision is there, but I think it can still be optimized. I have the same point about floods. I am well aware that if there is a flood once in a hundred years, that material cannot be found in every barracks. However, there are also relatively small or medium-sized floods. It is not because it is a great catastrophe that suddenly it is no longer urgent. In this case, too, urgent aid is needed which exceeds the current powers of the fire zones, but which may not yet be covered by the greater catastrophes that civil protection should intervene on. I believe that the pumps at the fire zones go up to 10 000 litres and then there are the super pumps. My question is whether there is the possibility of providing pumps for certain intermediate categories per province, so that we could intervene curatively in the event of floods during a first pick-up and thus win two hours? Again, it is not because it is a major catastrophe that the urgency no longer plays. You know I'm having a hard time with the decision. However, I am also pleased that there is accommodation for my province, that the North Sea is somehow involved in this. We will do our best to make this workable and ensure in good faith that it comes into force at some point, but I think we still have a problem with these relatively small risks at CBRN. I am not talking about nuclear N, but I believe that an additional budget should be provided for chemical matters and floods which exceed a certain level per province and that this should be given to fire zones. For Jabbeke, I think we'll find a solution by tilting the firehouse in a fire zone. I wouldn't like to be mayor of Liedekerke. I think Luc has greatly supported that barracks in the past and that Flemish Brabant needs that barracks. Hence my plea not to close them. Let's see if we can't tilt that barracks in the local fire zone so that there can be an optimal decision that is compatible with the decision that was taken and that Flemish Brabant can offer the same level of service at operational level.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic642x.u21	Anyone else asking for the floor? [[No.]] I give the floor to the Minister to answer the questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic642x.u22	Mr President, at least I have not achieved the ambition to answer all the questions with the introduction. I'll answer the questions now. The majority of the discussion is correct, and it seems logical to me too, as Mr Bogaert has mentioned, is about specialisation versus proximity. Allow me to cite France as an example. France, as a country, is many times bigger than our country, une et indivisible. Well, the Protection Civile in France was reduced from six units to two units. The distances, knowing France, will then be totally à côté de la plaque. I will group the questions together, first I come to the questions about the choice of the barracks. These are questions from Mr Vanden Burre, Mrs Fonck and Mr Vanden Burre. Van Hees about different points. As I said in the speech on the choice of barracks, the analysis we have made is based on economic criteria, the investment and disinvestment costs of the current infrastructure; operational criteria, such as the opening-up possibilities, the distances to be travelled; and risk analysis according to the envisaged civil protection tasks. That risk analysis was prepared by the Civil Protection Executive Board. The total combination of these elements, and not only a partial application of them in one unit or another, but the three criteria applied to all units, led to the choice we have come to. It is not a simple balance between pros and counters, it is necessary to see the integrated overall picture of both quantitative and qualitative data. The services that we aim to provide to the Seveso companies and nuclear sites were not the only ones involved, there were three criteria, given the geographical distribution and the associated transports. In the number of Seveso companies, the different companies are taken over, but Tier 1 companies have been excluded from this analysis. In this context, it is not a question of driving time in terms of speed, but rather of the nature and probability of the risk derivatives, the expected frequency, and therefore the number of interventions that civil protection must take.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic642x.u23	Why Level 1?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic642x.u24	Because they are very small businesses with very little risk.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic642x.u25	When we talk about Seveso, there's always a risk!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic642x.u26	Each Seveso company does not represent the same risk. There is a difference in risk in the different categories. I'm not making up anything. As far as the future of staff is concerned, there is indeed a 30 per cent reduction from the current staffing level. As I explained, different avenues are being considered. In addition to pre-pension leave and possible reassignment to emergency areas, reassignments are also possible in other services, as well as outplacement. I want to be very clear about Ghlin. This will be negotiated with the rescue zone and SHAPE: the number of personnel needed to carry out Ghlin's tasks will be defined. This number will be transferred, with the corresponding budget. To those who remain, it will be asked who wishes to go to Crisnaeus, while understanding that there is a difficulty regarding the necessary distance and skill. A solution will be sought with those who do not wish to go. They may be able to enter vacant places in emergency areas. This is not a government decision, but they will be able to benefit from it and a budget will be available in the early years to facilitate transfers. Mr Bonte, I think you asked the question about mobility. I said in my speech that we are currently looking with the Minister responsible for civil servants to see how we can regulate mobility so that those people can actually take priority over job vacancies. We are negotiating on this, in parallel with the negotiations on the Statute. We will try to provide them with the best possible solution. For persons whose distance from home to work is not considered feasible, an alternative can be sought closer to their home. They will be transferred to the rescue areas with a backpack (small budget) to facilitate their transfer. During union discussions, staff issues such as new status, working time and transitional arrangements will be addressed. The number and location of barracks or missions to be carried out by civil protection will therefore not be discussed. These points have already been the subject of a political decision. You asked me to arrange a negotiation with the unions. The question of the number of barracks is not on the table. The tasks of civil protection have already been the subject of a decision. A royal decree will be taken on this matter. But the status, the hours of work, the leave system are points that will be discussed at the union consultation which will begin next May. The total wage mass currently stands at 24 million. Those are the staff appropriations at the moment. With that, I have to carry out that reform. The distribution between Brasschaat and Crisnée is 50/50, for the envelope and for the staff. With regard to civil security for the entire Belgian territory, the reform transforms civil protection into a more specialized service, with a clearer delimitation of missions in relief areas. There is now a specialized second-line service, with complementary and exclusive service provision, as well as a reinforcement service in depth and wider. The tasks of the rescue zones are defined in a royal decree of 2014, but no other tasks will be added. We want the rescue areas to carry out these tasks as well and the service to be even more efficient. This means that tasks currently carried out by civil protection will no longer be carried out in the future. The relief zones continue to guarantee the same response times and coverage throughout the country for the tasks already assigned to them by law. In areas where the current units carry out emergency front-line missions, these missions are transferred to the relief areas, which will be progressively competent, and after consultation with the local authorities. Our next step is to talk to the rescue areas to organize this transformation. It is therefore a transitional and accompaniment journey. The aim is that the situation in the six areas will have to become the same as that currently prevailing in the other 34 areas and in Brussels. Response times for urgent front-line missions are acceptable everywhere. These time limits for intervention will not be applied in the same way to missions provided by civil protection. During the recent leak of nitric acid in Zevekote, for example, the Brasschaat unit was on site at 1:15 a.m. after the call to provide specific assistance. Had it been called earlier, civil protection could also have been on the scene earlier. The 2016 emergency response statistics for civil protection will be provided in writing separately. With regard to the future of the sites, an action plan will be carried out in consultation with the local authorities responsible for the transfer of front-line missions. The plan will also address the staffing requirements and the future of current sites. Specifically, seven people are currently planned for the Ghlin unit – this is our starting position, but we will continue the negotiations – and we estimate the number of people needed for the Jabbeke unit to be nine. But we will sit around the table and look at what that is based on. We will negotiate on that. So this wasn't cast into concrete. Our approach is to sit around the table together and see how we get out. It is indeed planned, specifically for the Ghlin unit, that seven persons will be actively transferred to the Hainaut Centre rescue zone, within the framework of Belgium's national and international obligations for SHAPE in Mons, including the airport. These persons thus become members of the area's personnel. The tracks mentioned above apply to the other employees of this barracks. With regard to the budget and its indexation. Bugets are always indexed. When I say about today's resources that the envelope is closed, those resources are indexed. There's no operation savings going on here. Why will the number of employees be smaller? Because we need fewer staff because of centralization and can therefore finance the increase in wages and the increase in the statute; that is the idea behind it. Operating and investment costs remain the same for the future two as for the current six. They all asked about the impact on relief areas and on civil security. The possible impact on the relief areas was indeed analysed. But it must ipso facto be limited to the communes around a few units that carry out the front line tasks. In concrete terms, less than a quarter of the total number of man-hours provided are services performed in the context of the missions to be carried out by the fire services. In this case, the unit acts as a fire station and ambulance in the emergency area concerned. This because someone mentioned the fact that there would be no ambulance. Yes, there are civilian security stations that have an ambulance today. It makes sense that this cannot be the goal. The first line of fire cannot be the purpose of civil protection. That makes sense. In time, it's been a little bit off, I can understand it. I understand that this has slipped a bit in the past, but we will reposition it. In consultation with local governments, I have drawn up a phasing-out plan so that the areas concerned can resume their legally binding tasks, as is currently the case in all other areas. Areas will not be obliged to take over staff, but this will depend on their needs and intentions based on the risk analysis of the area. The same applies to equipment: its analysis is under way in civil protection. Additional training should not be provided for the areas, since these are missions already covered by all their tasks. Future funding will be subject to federal allocations for operational improvement. They will have to be spent optimally. The setting of federal endowments for fire services has never taken into account the presence of a civil defence barracks. In other words, areas close to a barracks were provided with equivalent staffing to areas without barracks, with a view to improving their operational functioning. It would not be correct for areas other than those benefiting from this provision of civil protection services to receive any kind of benefits in the transfer of its missions. A national assistance consultation was held with Defence in the context of CBRN capabilities. Their means are of a different order than those of civil protection: they are used for military purposes or in certain situations abroad. They are not suitable for permanent availability for civil and industrial CBRN accidents in Belgium. They may be used as reinforcements, but other mobilisation procedures and response procedures are applicable. Mrs Fonck asked me about the reform schedule. As I said, the transition period runs from 2017 to 2019, so that conversions can be made gradually. For the specific points, it is necessary to continue the dialogue with the actors concerned, depending on the possibilities and needs. When I say that we're going to sit around the table with the unions, the areas concerned and the services with vacations, I'm not going to put pressure. We're going to give the concertation time. The result is more important than speed. Mr. Van Hees asked me about the communication of the decision. I didn't get it very well. The main decisions are made at the level of the federal government's kern. I didn't communicate anything until the decisions were made. It is clear that the partners were aware and approved of my final proposals. Mr Bonte, with regard to the transfer of the barracks from Liedekerke to the fire zone, we will be sitting around the table with the fire zones to see what the needs are and possibly make a risk analysis of the area once civil protection is gone to see what results we are achieving. We're open to discussion. I have already answered the question about the mobility rule, which we are working on. The search and rescue was not very well formulated in the presentation. It is actually about the search and rescue in the context of the judicial investigation, not the urgent search and rescue at sea and not any new tasks for civil protection. There are sometimes major investigations to be carried out in the context of the judicial investigation. It's more about these tasks. As I said in my presentation, Mr Metsu, volunteers are given an adapted status similar to that of the volunteers in the fire department. Attention is paid to opportunities for growth. As civil protection will focus on specialised tasks, the new statute also provides for the recruitment of specialised volunteers, experts as it were. This should allow for specific and almost priceless competences from the private sector to be brought into government. It is a pity that Mr Van Hees is gone. He always says that I want to privatise tasks, but here specializations from the private sector are brought in through the volunteers in civil protection. It may not be emphasised enough, but firefighters, both professional and voluntary in civil protection, who have certain specializations, such as hazardous substances, can also act as specialized volunteers. Mr Bogaert, I do not think that a volunteer from Menen will easily come to Brasschaat. As we provide the volunteers with the same status as the firefighter volunteers, I strongly urge them to go to the firefighter zones to become a firefighter volunteer there. Mr Metsu, you asked why we did not choose to put civil protection all the way into the fire department. A number of interventions have already responded. If we abolish the hyper-specialised unit, all 34 zones individually must have hyper-specialised material, so that they may never have to use it. With two units that have that material, the probability that they have to use it is 17 times greater. That is the reasoning we have followed. Mr Flahaux, as far as the staff is concerned, he will increase from 470 to 313 agents, but 16 others will arrive in Ghlin and Jabbeke. This will be included in the negotiations that we are about to undertake. This initiative is based on a needs study. We have consulted with local officials for this purpose. For specific missions, a royal decree was issued. We will adapt it and reintroduce it. It establishes on two columns the tasks assigned to the relief and civil protection zones. It is clear that before, we have played with it. We're going to clean this painting. The new Royal Decree will set out the rules of the game that will determine when local areas will be able to avail themselves of civil protection services. I've already explained what the enclosed envelope is. Next, we expect 11 administrative staff in the future organization. Each barracks will host five, while the eleventh will be assigned to the central body. The procedure will be the same: those who so wish can submit their applications. For the rest, we will look for a solution in other services. As far as statutory and contractual staff are concerned, there are ten contractors throughout the organization. They remained contractual because they did not pass the statutory exam. We will try to find a solution with them, but if we can't, we have the opportunity to terminate the contract. I therefore do not exclude the possibility of an outplacement. With regard to the resources provided for Ghlin and Jabbeke, this is the overall staff and operational cost envelope. For buildings, we are open to dialogue. For example, if people in Jabbeke think it would be better to keep the nine, ten or eleven people we come out of there at that location, then we're going to see how much space it takes and we're going to try to fill in the rest. If it is said that it is only ten people and that we can also place them elsewhere in an existing barracks where we still have room or can build up, then the part of Jabbeke's property that we sell, the part that corresponds to these staff, can be used to finance it. We can talk about that. It can be in the areas or it cannot be in the areas, which I do not see as being part of the negotiations that we can conduct. Mr Bogaert, I come to the suggestion you have made because I think we have dealt with the other points. I think it would be extremely stupid to say now: this is it, this is on the table and this is to take or leave it, and we put all the other insights next to us. That's not my style. I would be more than happy to sit around the table with regard to these suggestions to see where we are going, after we have, of course, looked at the tasks of the local areas. After all, I believe that many of these things are actually already within the remit of the safety zones or fire zones today. However, if improvements are possible, it would be idiotic not to be open to that. Mr President, I believe that I have answered the questions. There are still some questions on the agenda about other topics.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic642x.u27	Ladies and gentlemen, who would like to take the floor in response to the answers given by the Minister?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic642x.u28	Minister, thank you for your answers. You're making a comparison with France. It's true that she's much bigger. It has reduced from six to two, and we should be able to do so too. But we're not gonna start comparing apples and pears. It all depends on the missions and their distribution; also on the way in which all specific chemical, bacteriological or nuclear components are handled in proximity security. If you have a wider distribution of expertise and equipment, you can accept their reduction. If we have to compare, let's do it with all the elements. Then you tell us that you have taken a series of objective criteria. I imagine you've done a full analysis. In your answer, you have not been more explicit than the slides you have projected. Mr President, I would ask that the complete documents which form the objective analysis which would have been made available to the members of the committee. Minister, I mean, for example, that you have decided to exclude Seveso Level 1 areas from the criteria. Is that to say that you consider that the rescue areas are now in a position to manage Seveso Level 1 companies? Not that I know! It would be important to know how the safety management of these Seveso Level 1 companies would be carried out. This has not been taken into account at all and these companies may present specific risks that you have identified in the specialized missions on which you want to focus civil protection action. I hear you're confirming the closure of four barracks. But that is not exactly what I heard from some colleagues today, or what I heard from some of your government's partners. Nevertheless, I must conclude from our current discussion that we will close the four barracks. It's no longer negotiable. You say that all that may remain to be negotiated is the statutes and the special consideration of staff members. That's what you said and that's an important point. For Ghlin, in particular, you refer to seven staff members. There are 120 of them today. Of course, it is not with seven members that a barracks is being set up. In fact, you specify that you send them to the emergency area of the Hainaut Centre and also to SHAPE. The SHAPE base is not quite near Chièvres. I don't know if you know a little bit about the place. That's why I said that earlier. I hear it's the SHAPE and the Chièvres pane. All Seveso companies remain. Important distances remain in terms of security coverage from the barracks, which will then only be in Crisnea. In the background, we have a very different vision. You're actually saying there's the first line and then the second line. The second line can be extremely distant. I have no problem having a first line with the complementarity of a second line and, indeed, a specialisation in specific risk management. But where I absolutely do not agree with you, it is about saying that the second line, so the specialized type of intervention, can be extremely distant. I do not agree with you because I think that if complementarity can and must be, the second line does not mean that there should not be a rapid response given the particular risks. In relation to this, I believe that this government-wide project, since I understand that it is a project that is locked, is undermining clear and specific aspects of optimal security management. The choices you make are not optimal and fast management choices, either for the population or for a range of companies or in relation to the risks at some of them. Taking into account the statements of each other, in view of the questions and doubts raised by your majority partners, I therefore clearly call for this dossier to be reopened and re-examined and for an approach with far higher security objectives. Mr Minister, we will therefore turn to the whole government and, in particular, to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic642x.u29	Mr Minister, I take it that you say that the barracks of Jabbeke and Liedekerke should not be closed, as previously appeared in the press. For me it is not important which logo is on that building or on the right or left side of the shoulder of the valued employees. For me it is important what functionality is guaranteed and whether there is a difference in functionality. We should be able to reach an agreement on the small chemical risks and the high risk of flooding. Then there are a number of objective questions. The question is whether these areas are equipped for this purpose. If that happens, do they have the equipment? It is in their statute or not, or in the expectation that we have of those zones. A second important objective question is whether we have the staff and equipment to give an answer to it, which must go far beyond the mere observation that there is a problem. They must therefore be able to intervene. I understand that Seveso type 2 was the focus of the reorganisation. However, we should not minimize Seveso type 1 and then there is what I would call Type 0. There are companies that are absolutely not classified as Seveso but have a tank or a chemical plant or a reservoir. If there is a leak, can we ensure that all fire zones are equipped to pull out for those small chemical hazards? The same for the large flood risk derivatives. Can we ensure that there are a number of pumps per province so that, in case of emergency, there can be a first credible outburst to remedy these high flood risks? It's a whole different story if we can do that. Then the balance between specialisation, on the one hand, and freedom, on the other hand, is getting closer. We must not have all the specialist equipment in all 34 zones in Belgium. Every rational thinking person will agree to that. I continue to find it particularly tight, but one must be able to equip the zones. I'm looking at my province in concrete terms. Of course, we have excellent civil protection, but is it fully equipped? No. I would also like to encourage the people of Jabbeke's civil protection on the occasion of Zevekote. Should we say you called too late? They have a whole different story. I'm not going into that too deep right now. They reject that idea and I'm on their side. However, to the extent that we can objectively look at the functionality of civil protection and see that it has been increased after the reform in my province, we can of course speak, because we are in a very different situation, but I do not think that we are very close to it. Civil protection is there, after all. However, if Liedekerke or Brasschaat are to be deported to my province, it is already de facto questionable whether the current level of functionality can be raised by making some additional investments in the field of small chemical risks and high flood risks. The service level, to put it with an English term, we will then be able to increase. It is, of course, a question of budget. I see the news coming in that the government has decided to postpone the budget balance by one year. That is a decision that I am not in favour of, for the sake of clarity. However, it would be awesome to say that the budget is not bad, but that we have to miss a number of crucial millions of euros here. There will only be something serious going on, and then we will ask ourselves what exactly we have decided. I appreciate your openness to talk about the problem. Let us objectively consider how we can strengthen the zones. In all objectivity, I can say that there is a safety hole in that area in my eyes. I am talking about the Seveso 1 and the Seveso I would like to call type 0, in particular what happened at that manure processing plant, which is absolutely not a Seveso plant. What happened on that farm is, to some extent, serious, but it is not a Seveso risk. In that case, I believe that civil protection should not come from Brasschaat. That is my honest opinion on the matter. In that case, we must equip the areas of aid in order to be able to do a first credible detour. Those involved have done their best incredibly, but there is more material per province and more specialised people are needed to cope with this type of risk.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic642x.u30	Mr Bogaert, I fundamentally agree with what you have said. For Maaseik, civil protection should not come from Brasschaat for such an incident, nor should it be tomorrow. We must look at how we deal with this within the remit of the zones in the framework of the Royal Decree. If we were to make such civil protection interventions in that debate, we would have to go to 30 barracks of civil protection, which is a thesis that can be defended.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic642x.u31	That has already happened today, for example a few weeks ago in Zevekote.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic642x.u32	If, to give this example, what happened in Zevekote, would have happened in Maaseik or high in Limburg, the question is why Zevekote should be served better than Maaseik. You propose that this task be assigned to the provincial zones or to the fire zones. That goes for both Maaseik and Zevekote. Now, by the fact that civil protection intervenes in it, that means a very big difference between Maaseik and Zevekote.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic642x.u33	You are now quoting the argument of equality.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic642x.u34	Yes, it is.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic642x.u35	However, there is also a safety argument of tel. The zones wonder whether they should, where appropriate, call Brasschaat or Liedekerke's unit. I don't know exactly what's going on between those 34 zones and who's doing what tasks. However, I do think that they should be equipped for that type of type of Seveso type 1 is, according to what I understand, not in this reform, but in type 0, i.e. outside Seveso but still at a chemical risk. Those risk derivatives must be covered. What happens now, if that unit has to come from this far, I do not find a logical operational situation. That's how I estimate it, unless the experts present here tell me it's different.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic642x.u36	Minister, thank you for your answers, even if they do not necessarily suit me. I would just like to have a little clarification about the staff. From the point of view of your slide, I think I understood, but I must have been wrong, that they were all leaving, at some point, in the Hainaut Centre area. You also say that if there are vacant places in the other areas, these people will eventually be able to go. In an area such as mine, namely that of Wallonia Picardy, when a place is vacant, we organize an examination. According to your hypothesis, would the persons concerned be automatically given priority on the basis of a particular provision or should they pass an examination like everyone else?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic642x.u37	Depends. There are people who already have a fireman's license. In this case, things should be easy to do. Those who do not have the patent will have to pass an examination. In fact, a fireman's certificate is mandatory to perform this function.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic642x.u38	In the event that two people have more or less the same training, does one pass in front of the other or does the choice always belong to the areas?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic642x.u39	There will be a financial advantage in hiring the former civil protection member. This will not be the case with an external application. But the final choice belongs to the employer, namely the area.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic642x.u40	We've organized a whole series of exams. We therefore have a recruitment reserve. If, tomorrow, the first person on the recruitment reserve list has the same capabilities as someone coming from Ghlin, the candidate's choice remains in the emergency area. There's no priority.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic642x.u41	But Ghlin's candidate will come back cheaper.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic642x.u42	Minister, I would like to thank you for a series of precise answers you gave, although I regret that civil protection in Liedekerke will no longer exist. One element of your answer worries me, namely the ease that does not take into account the lightest category of Seveso companies. Well, that doesn't comfort me, anyway. In my city there are two such companies, one in the petrochemical sector and one gas company. I know very well from the risk analysis that the fire zone is not able to provide quick answers to problems that may arise there and that are related to the risks. I'm not comfortable with that. This brings me back to my first question, which I did not receive an answer to. When I hear the discussions and also the suggestions of other speakers, it is always a bit about the importance of the presence and proximity. We would be pleased if we could look at the report, the scientific study to which reference was made and on the basis of which reform was decided. The question remains: can Parliament have that report?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic642x.u43	I understand Mrs. Fonck is going to ask the question. There's public access to government.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic642x.u44	So that report is being made available? Should we write letters or will we be sent them?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic642x.u45	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic642x.u46	Even if we do not want to make it available, we will have to make it available.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic642x.u47	Perhaps it would be useful to make it available in advance?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic642x.u48	Then you had nothing to talk about... [[Hilarity]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic642x.u49	The question was asked by Mrs Fonck. We'll pass it on to her.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic642x.u50	What, among other things, seems important to me in the remarks made by the Minister is the fact that missions will be clearly defined between the level of fire zones and the level of emergency preparedness. Indeed, there have been overflows or habits over time. But it will be necessary to ensure that the equipment and personnel trained, for example for Seveso 1, are well available in each of the fire zones and that you cannot be blamed for not holding up the blow, either in the fire zones or in the minister. Furthermore, since the question was asked by Mrs Fonck – I think – about Ghlin to Chimay and Crisnea to Chimay, I do not think that in terms of motorways, it necessarily takes more time. These issues can be resolved in advance – prevention is better than cure – to ensure that any incident is effectively managed. I would point out that the objective of the reform, and also in my view, is not a budgetary objective – you have just recalled – but rather an objective of efficiency. This will cost postponing as much as before, including indexing. In the long run, efficiency will have to be at the rendezvous, otherwise frustrations will arise, which is quite legitimate.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic642x.u51	All the questions have been asked, all the questions have been answered. This will enable us to conclude the exchange of views that preceded our item 1 on the agenda. On agenda item 1, Mr Degroote and Mr Demon agreed that their questions Nos 17393 and 17512 should be converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic642x.u52	Minister, since January 16, the photographs used for ID cards in Belgium must meet the specific criteria that meet ICAO standards. These criteria include having the expression of the "neutral" face (closed mouth, not smiling, not having the frowned eyebrows), having the face fully visible, having the shoulders well straight and finally the background must be united and without shadow. Recently, I have received numerous testimonies from citizens who have gone to the commune for their identity cards and have experienced difficulties in getting their photos accepted, which means that they will have to pay for them again. Would it not therefore be useful to better communicate these new measures so that citizens travelling to the civil registry of their commune for their identity cards are not forced to re-write their photos?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic642x.u53	As of January 16, 2017, ICAO standards apply to identity photos for eID cards and Kids-ID cards, whereas previously these rules applied to passports. At the end of last year, the Directorate-General for Institutions and Population sent the municipalities the circular on this subject and the new photo matrix incorporating ICAO standards and the new model letters of convocation. The new regulations were also sent to the National Association of Professional Photographers to inform its members. In addition to communes and professional photographers, we also wanted to inform citizens. That is what we have done through letters of summons to the citizens and by informing the municipalities and the media. Together with the circular, we sent the new models of letters of convocation to the communes. The requirements you quote appear in all letters on the back of this new letter of convocation (face "neutral", face fully visible, etc.).). Some municipalities use their own letters of convocation. This model was also sent to them and they were asked to adapt this information on their letters of convocation. By indicating the main requirements on letters of convocation, we ensure that the citizen is informed of the new requirements in the field of photography, upon receipt of the convocation. Most municipalities have disseminated the information on their websites and/or in their communal newsletters. The media also received very detailed information so that they, in turn, could inform citizens. In December, the spokesperson for the Directorate-General for Institutions and Population already gave interviews on this subject to VTM and Sudinfo. In early January, the same Directorate-General issued a press release to all current media. The communiqué was widely taken up. Between 12 and 16 January, this communication was repeated in De Morgen, Het Nieuwsblad, Het Laatste Nieuws, De Gazet van Antwerpen, Het Belang van Limburg, Metro, Newsmonkey and TV Limburg on the Dutch-speaking side. On the French side, Le Soir, La Libre, L'Avenir, L'Echo, Sudinfo and Metro relayed the information. The press release was also widely disseminated to online news sites. Finally, of course, we drew attention to this extensive application of ICAO standards on the websites of the Internal SPF and the Directorate-General for Institutions and Population. I therefore believe that it can be concluded that every effort has been made to inform the citizens. The message has been disseminated in a large number of communal newsletters. The photographers have been informed. The requirements also appear on the summons and are posted at the counters. I will provide you with a list of the press articles that processed this information.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic642x.u54	Minister, thank you. I did not question at all the fact that the information had been given. But perhaps the information has not always been well understood. I can assure you that this sometimes creates tensions in the communes. People are denied their photos and feel that it is the commune that does not want them, hence the tensions. I do not know what could be done to further improve this communication. I knew very well that it had been made. I'm not going to ask you another question. I don't know if you've redone your identity photo since January 16th. I urge you to do it. I had to do it myself. It wasn't very good, even if I had the communication. It's really not that simple. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic642x.u55	In my case, I would understand it, but in your case, I don't understand it!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic642x.u56	It's very simple: I didn't recognize myself!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic642x.u57	Mr President, Minister, Islamic State is losing more and more ground in Syria and Iraq, which has not changed in recent days and weeks, but it is clear that violence is threatening to move more and more towards Europe. Similarly, many Syrian fighters would be on their way to the European mainland. How many departing Syrian fighters are we talking about until today? Can you give an annual overview? Is it possible to distinguish between successful and failed attempts at departure? How many returned Syrian fighters are already in Belgium? How many returns do you expect in the near future? This is undoubtedly the most difficult question to answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic642x.u58	Mr President, the number of individuals travelling from Belgium to the region of Syria and Iraq to join the terrorist group has gradually decreased in the course of 2015. In 2016, only four people made an attempt to leave. As far as we know, only one person has managed to reach Syrian territory. On 14 March 2017, the OCAD knew 278 movers, an estimated 120 of whom died. 81 individuals have made a failed attempt from our country to join the region of Syria and Iraq since the outbreak of the crisis. The number of returns at present is 118. Indeed, it is correct that IS is increasingly under pressure. However, it is impossible to predict the number of returners expected. For some of the warriors they can be expected to stay with ISIS until the bitter end. Others will try to return illegally. An option that is becoming increasingly difficult because IS acts hard against deserters. Others may try to move to another jihadist conflict zone. The OCAD currently knows about some 30 FTF members. Usually it is about women and children, which does not mean that they are all harmless, on the contrary. They have expressed the intention to return to this country. Some have already managed to cross the border with Turkey and are being held by the Turkish authorities. I can tell you that at the moment a dozen have already returned: two women and the rest children. Women are adults and can also be trained as warriors. Kids, that's a stretchy concept. A child of two years of age is relatively little danger, a child of 15 or 16 years of age may also have seen and been trained for this. Treatment in this respect requires the necessary nuance.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic642x.u59	Mr Deputy Prime Minister, the question does come back regularly, but the figures are encouraging because they remain stable; we do not notice a huge increase, on the contrary. I'm comfortable with that. However, we must not be naive and we must not assume that our work ends here.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic642x.u60	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Ben Hamou's 17554 will be converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic642x.u61	Mr President, Minister, a few months ago I had the opportunity to ask you about the future of forensic laboratories. I had also substantiated all possible scenarios that, I am sure, you know better than I do. Although I did not have the full answers to my questions, at the time, you mentioned, as determining criteria, the increase in quality, specialization and optimization of service. Secondly, according to your answer, the budgetary and logistical arguments that can be understood came. The current lack of a clear decision on the options chosen is a matter of concern to industry players and a high risk of demotivating staff, who are very hard to do. I was able to see it both in my region and in the region of Liège. Minister, what scenario will ultimately be chosen? Is total or partial removal of laboratories envisaged? If so, what would motivate this choice? Is it also envisaged that the scientific police will no longer be in charge of this function or that it will be limited to certain functions of front office or back office? If so, which organization do you think would be the most appropriate?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic642x.u62	Mr President, Mr Minister, the least we can say is that uncertainty persists. You've been questioned several times in the field. If I come back to the subject, it is because we are again questioned by the judicial directors both on the importance of taking an urgent decision and on the most optimal way to organise the proper functioning in the light of all the stakes of the technical and scientific police and its laboratories. In this context, the judicial directors recall that their preference is for accreditation to fourteen laboratories, which appears to be supported by the College of Attorneys General, the King's Council of Prosecutors, provincial governors and the Standing Commission on Local Police. This choice was made as the first option by the Director General DGJ and the Commissioner General. Despite this, the government seems to favour the accreditation of five sites. The Court Directors propose to set up an organization for each Court of Appeal, allowing for the maintenance of the fourteen front offices, the only guarantee of an equivalent service throughout the territory, as well as the non-scission of staff between back and front offices, and through more flexible accreditation according to the realities of the field and the existing infrastructure. They also propose to differentiate the low-cost, so-called mass techniques (such as fingerprinting techniques by powdering or cyanoacrylates), from specific, rarer and more expensive niche techniques, which can be more centralized, which is already the case today. I believe that these adjustments proposed by the judicial directors are legitimate. I wanted to know your position on these requests from the directors of justice. You haven't transferred any information to the field players yet. I would like to know if you will associate them and consult with them closely. You have read about it; I have tabled a series of more specific questions related to accreditation. They relate to the timing and the organization
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic642x.u63	Mrs Fonck, following the decision, taken in consultation with my colleague the Minister of Justice, to accredit five forensic police laboratories, i.e. one per court of appeal, an infrastructure planning was actually proposed. The lab is called back office. For the Brussels Court of Appeal, priority will be given to accrediting the laboratory of the PJF Brussels and the judicial identification services of the DGT at their current premises. In this context, extensive and structured collaboration will be established in the coming weeks between the central management of DGT and the laboratory of the PJF in Brussels. The objective is to certify these two services in 2018. For the Liège Court of Appeal, the construction of the new laboratory of the Liège PJF will be completed at the end of 2018, which should allow for accreditation of this site in 2019. For the Antwerp Court of Appeal, pending the construction of a new laboratory on the Valaar site, this after 2020 (date yet to be confirmed), the Antwerp PJF is carrying out a study to accredit, on a provisional basis, the laboratory of the Antwerp PJF on its current site. Based on the results of this study and with the support of DGT, the objective could be to accredit the current site of the Antwerp laboratory in 2018-2019. For the Ghent Court of Appeal, a study is currently under way to determine the needs of a new site in Ghent. In the best case, the new site will not be ready for several years. We will have a study conducted to temporarily accredit the Ghent PJF laboratory at its current site. Based on the results of this study, the objective could be to accredit the Ghent laboratory in 2018-2019. For the Mons Court of Appeal, as soon as the decision to choose the site, Mons or Charleroi, is known, a study may begin to determine the needs of the site to be accredited. If a new building were to be considered, it would not be ready for several years. Here too, a study will be carried out to accredit, on an interim basis, one of the two current sites. Based on the results of this study, the objective could be to accredit the Hainaut laboratory in 2018-2019. Mrs Jadin, with regard to the choice of structure, I can say that the direction has been taken to accredit five technical and scientific police laboratories and the Judicial Identification Service (JIS). This means that fingerprint analysis and, to some extent, some DNA-related processes will be conducted exclusively at these five sites. This decision therefore does not concern the other current PTS sites that will continue their front-office activities for the benefit of partners, the most important of which, in terms of workload, remain the local police. With regard to the so-called front offices sites, which are responsible for downhill and indexing on site, there are currently 25 sites. However, it is not impossible for some of the twenty-five still in operation to close in the short or medium term. This has already been the case in 2015 and 2016 for the sites of Hasselt, Mechelen and Arlon. At the end of April, I will have the relevant information from the federal police. For each back office site that will need to be accredited, improvements will be required both in terms of infrastructure and logistics. Currently, four of these five sites are already known and, as I said, a choice still needs to be made between two laboratories, Charleroi or Mons, for the fifth site. These adjustments will be clearly defined and planned over time. Mrs Fonck, many presentations and communications have already been made in recent months to partners, including the College of Attorneys General and the King's Council of Prosecutors. Very recently, a presentation of the case to the Justice Network of Expertise was given. In addition, the judicial directors, and therefore the staff of the technical and scientific police laboratories, are regularly informed by the DGT of the state of play in this case. Finally, a working group has been set up within the Central Directorate of the Technical and Scientific Police. This working group includes several judicial directors and laboratory managers from PTS. The presence of a representative of the Standing Committee on Local Police will also be requested. The practical arrangements for implementing the decision are, for the time being, under consideration. These modalities, as well as the business model, will address human resources management and capacity to properly operate logistics and information technology, infrastructure and budgets. At the end of April 2017, the federal police must submit to the Minister of Justice and to me proposals for additional modalities for the implementation of this decision. These arrangements relate in particular to staff (recruitment, training, evaluation, quality, etc.) but also the "quality" functions that will have to be present in each accredited site (logistics, TCI, finance, infrastructure, authority, audits, etc.).). These arrangements will have to take into account budgetary and capacity realities. In addition, they will have to ensure not only accreditation, but also a uniform level of quality throughout the country. Particular attention should be paid to the support of the local police and to social dialogue. In the event of a complete separation between back offices and front offices, a functional transition period will have to be put in place. Mrs Jadin, it is not envisaged that the scientific police will no longer be in charge of this function. An outsourcing of the activities of the Federal Judicial Police laboratories is therefore not on the agenda. I have already mentioned this on several occasions. Mrs Fonck, we will make every effort to get to this issue as quickly as possible and hope to accredit the sites as soon as possible. I'll wait for the results of the study. An ideal resolution would be the five accredited back offices, accompanied by a front office per judicial district (constituted by the provinces).
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic642x.u64	Minister, thank you very much for your very comprehensive answers. This question always comes back, and it's good to say it. It may be necessary to hammer it because it is of course with contact that we have with the ground that these reflections on a total outsourcing most often resurface. Demention is a very good thing. It must be explained vehemently that tomorrow it will be the staff of the scientific police who will be responsible for the maintenance of this type of laboratory. As we know, we're leaving twenty-eight laboratories, and they all have to have their ISO9000 accreditation, if I'm not mistaken. This is not an easy thing for all laboratories today in the territory. That's perfectly understandable. I visited some of them; I don't even know if they had ISO 1. I therefore see the need to do so. There's something I didn't know and I heard right. Beyond the five back offices that will be distributed according to the jurisdiction of the courts of appeal, the same will apply to the front offices, so those who will perform the tasks a little less difficult. There will be one per judicial district. We need to work on that track. If I can add this little question in the end, how many laboratories will it do? Fourteen, fifteen?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic642x.u65	Fourteen, but there are two boroughs in Hainaut. So we're talking about thirteen or fourteen.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic642x.u66	All right. Thank you for your clarification.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic642x.u67	Minister, if we come to you to relay requests from judicial directors, and if they wrote an open letter, they obviously had messages to pass on. There's some concern. You know as well as I do that this is a crucial issue in support of investigations but also for local police. I think that on the ground, everyone is aware of the importance of accreditation, and of the very clear added value that it can bring. At the same time, the presence of long-standing expertise on the part of the field must be emphasized. The work done with magistrates, federal and local investigators, reasonable time frames for intervention, the interaction between conventional investigations and forensic investigations, and infrastructure are all important issues. You will receive the study at the end of April, but I would like to send you two messages. First, the study is an important element, but to define the modalities, it is also important to interact and involve actors on the ground. For the first time today, I hear something that is in line with the request of the judicial directors, namely the maintenance of the fourteen front offices. We will have to keep an eye on the complementary elements and the study will also have to be analysed on the basis of consultation and work by the field experts. Secondly, once the modalities are defined, it will be important to establish close contacts so that a positive solution can be found to this uncertainty, which is never beneficial in the day-to-day work and in the proper functioning of all staff. Indeed, working conditions are not simple and the stakes are fundamental. Minister, thank you for reassuring us of the rapid end of this period of uncertainty.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic642x.u68	Deputy Prime Minister, the figures from the federal police that you provided last week indicate that 2,221,442 Belgians, or 20% of the population, are registered in our country. There were 1,506,046 in the same situation seven years ago, an increase of 47.5%, with a peak in 2016. The reason for this was the inclusion of new grounds for listing in the Criminal Code and the strengthening of legislative tools to combat terrorism. Seen like this, it may seem that the "Orwellian" spectrum threatens us! Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, can you give us a list of the reasons for listing people, separating the pre-existing reasons from the reasons added as a result of the current security situation? Can you provide us with the breakdown of the labels based on the patterns that led to it? Can you tell us what are the trends in the percentages of people registered by reason since 2010? Can you remind us of the objectives pursued by the additional grounds introduced in the Penal Code in the tabulation of individuals? Can you tell us what effects this has already had on strengthening internal security? Can you reassure the public that this evolution necessary for the security of all, in the face of the increasing threats, comes from the constant concern to maintain a balance between the fight against terrorism and the maintenance of individual freedoms?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic642x.u69	Before I answer these questions, I would like to make some clarifications about the figures you are quoting. These do not relate exclusively to Belgian citizens registered in the general data banks of the BNG. Belgian citizens are registered as well as foreigners living in Belgium or not. In addition, the police services register an increasing number of persons in the BNG at the request of the judicial authorities who prescribe compliance with certain measures with respect to these persons. The evolution more than significant between 2014 and 2016 is linked to a technical adaptation in the counting rules, so that these are all persons registered in the BNG, including those registered for facts judged in the past to be of lesser importance, such as urban and environmental facts or facts provided for in special laws on the practice of trade or on labour, for example. Previously, these people were part of another data bank, called the "Support" data bank. This is a consequence of the implementation of the Police Function Act, as amended on 18 March 2014, which no longer allows this distinction to be made. The two databases were merged, changing the numbers upwards. With regard to your questions, my collaborator will provide you with a list of the natures of facts on which the police rely to register people in BNG. The nature of the facts is a concept of "container" which includes one or more criminal offences, whether criminal or not, around an area such as, for example, robbery or threats of attacks. This list has 345 items. An activation date, the entry into force, is given for each item. Similarly, a deactivation date, the cessation of use, is mentioned for items that are no longer used, for example when an offence has ceased to exist or it has been repeated in a more precise nature of facts, newly created. We can follow the latest developments in the creation of facts in the General National Bank (BNG). Most of the natures of the crime are related to criminalization under the Criminal Code and special laws. Others have been created to facilitate police missions, such as runaways, disappearances and reporting at the request of the authority. In relation to the current security situation, a new nature of "behavior in relation to violent radicalization" was created in January 2015. It is not a criminal offence but a means of enabling the police to carry out their tasks properly. A few other criminal offences related to terrorism were added in June 2014, in an already existing nature of acts, namely "offence related to a terrorist group". With regard to your second and third questions, it would be too tedious to take up each type of fact and comment on the breakdown and its evolution. In addition, some types of fact are not very relevant. That is why I propose that you refer to the results of facts relating to terrorism. In the table provided, you will find the number of persons registered by nature of events before 2010, then, by year, until the first quarter of 2017, as well as the evolution in absolute numbers, and then, in percentages of the situation as at December 31, 1999 and April 5, this year. Certain types of facts do not relate solely to the subject matter of terrorism. This is the case with suspicious acts or threats of attack. Not all suspicious acts are committed by terrorists and not all bomb alerts are linked to terrorism. On the other hand, the nature of offences related to terrorist groups includes only terrorism-related offences. For your fourth question, it is important that the authority adequately respond to phenomena harmful to the population. One way to achieve this is to make criminally punishable what constitutes a danger to society. Police monitoring of compliance with the law and, as a result, of those who commit criminal acts or disrupt public order is an essential lever for maintaining security in our country. As such, police services must have adequate police information. It is useful to point out that they can only exercise control on the basis of strict and objective elements. Finally, the management of police information is regulated by the law on police information of 18 March 2014. This text is in line with recent case law of the European Court of Human Rights. One of its basic principles regarding the collection of information is that it should be proportionate to police needs. In addition, this collection is carried out under the supervision of the judicial and administrative authorities.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic642x.u70	Minister, I would like to thank you sincerely for your very detailed answer. It will help to elucidate the questions posed by certain sections of the population.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic642x.u71	Debates of the European Parliament 17625 of myself is converted into a written question. Mr. Secretary, you can stay until 6:00? That won't be long. That means we still have time for one or two questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic642x.u72	18.00 hours is indicative. Since both representatives of the people who still wanted to ask questions are here, I would like to show some flexibility. Maybe we should close the doors for new arrivals.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic642x.u73	Mr President, I have already asked a number of times about the invoices relating to urgent medical assistance and any devices offered. I refer to the law of 8 July 1964 on urgent medical services. It states as follows: "Emergency medical assistance means the immediate provision of appropriate assistance to all persons whose state of health as a result of an accident, a sudden illness or a sudden entanglement of a disease requires urgent intervention after a call through the uniform call system..." Once the patient is stable, he should be transferred to the hospital as soon as possible. The MUG doctor is the best person to decide. When the elevator in an apartment building is not large enough for a stretcher, in 95% of the cases, evacuating with a ladder car is the fastest way. The Fluvia rescue zone charges a fee for the use of a ladder car when someone is evacuated from an apartment, even if it is commissioned by the MUG doctor. At a previous committee meeting, you said, like Minister De Block, that such acts are illegal and even criminal. To this day, the relief zone even sends out a restraining order involving working with a bailiff. This is possible for unpaid invoices, when there is no dispute. In these cases, of course, there is a dispute. Are you aware of that way of working? What steps can be taken to stop this process?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic642x.u74	Mr President, Mr Bonte has three questions. We can handle it. If some questions were to become written questions, of course they could. Mr Top, I am aware that the Fluvia zone is charging the person concerned unjustly for a horizontal evacuation in the event of urgent medical assistance. However, the zone was informed, by letter and by means of oral contacts, that this is contrary to the rules. An adaptation of the fee rules in which the zone described this way of billing was destroyed by me on 24 November 2016. The ground of the billing is therefore questionable. The zone has filed an appeal for the destruction of my decision to the Council of State. I wasn't aware that the zone would use warrants for disputed debts. According to Article 75, §2 of the Civil Security Act of 15 May 2007, an injunction is only possible for claimable and undisputed claims. I am aware of the fact that several citizens objected to the zone or complained to the governor or to myself. In these cases, it is clear that a restraining order is contrary to the law. I will once again write to the zone to remind it that billing assistance to the ambulance in the event of an urgent intervention in the context of emergency medical care is in breach of the rules and that the use of a restraining order under the law is only possible if it is not contested. In the context of administrative supervision, action can be taken by myself and by the provincial governor if enforcement orders are declared enforceable by the college which have been contested. However, it is not feasible to request all orders from the zone and to check that they are undisputed. If the person concerned complains about the warrant, I or the governor can act as a supervisory authority. The person concerned may also lodge a complaint with the court. Transfer the complaints to me and I'll follow them up.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic642x.u75	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. You listed the procedure. It is true that another appeal was made to the Council of State on the last possible day. I was not a member of the majority in this case to support this. It is important that their appeal is not suspensive. Your decree of destruction is still valid. It is therefore still a questionable invoice. I am pleased that you indicate that all citizens' objections can be submitted to the governor or to yourself. In fact, challenging the appeal to the Justice of the Peace scares the public at costs. I'd like to plead for you to give the area a better idea. Thank you for supporting this. I would also like to refer to the rule that has been introduced in the Flemish Parliament with regard to water bills. A general rule for regularisation has been introduced for a specific water company, the Water Group, so that not every citizen has to lodge this complaint. Perhaps you could also urge the zone on this?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic642x.u76	Mr Bonte, what questions do you want to ask and what can be converted into written questions?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic642x.u77	Mr President, if the written answer follows quickly, I would like to turn the question relating to police zones and the question concerning camera images into written questions in train and metro stations.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic642x.u78	Mr Minister, I would like to bring my final question to your attention. It is a result of the entire discussion about mandates, accumulations and intercommunals. As chairman of the Flemish-Brabant West fire department, I suddenly got the remark that I was actually in illegality, since the law of 1931, the anti-cumulative law "it's obvious that it was still amended after 1931 "it effectively makes it impossible for a mayor-Parliament member to be chairman of a fire zone council, a college. I was not aware of this and I did not want to discuss it. They are mandates that one takes for free and for nothing and take a lot of time but are also very interesting. In any case, I have received effective confirmation from both Parliament's legal service where I have been informed and from your Home Affairs administration that this was not cumulative under the law. I just wanted to bring that to your attention. I've never talked about that in public, and I'm not going to. However, it would not be good for fellow Members to get into trouble in this way. So the question is whether you want to do something about it. Are you going to point that out to the people?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic642x.u79	Mr Bonte, I have been in the same case, but I am also unaware that this was not cumulative. There are currently four mayors: Mr De Wever for the Antwerp fire zone, Mr Vanvelthoven, yourself and Mr Delannois. I will take an initiative to lift that cumulative ban. It seems logical to me that this should be lifted.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-19-54-commissie-ic642x.u80	Debates of the European Parliament Question No 17839 and Question No 17839 17840, both by Mr Bonte, will be converted into written questions. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Dallemagne's 17658 will be converted into a written question. I will also translate my two questions Nos 17664 and 17666 into written questions.
