ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic762x.u1	Good morning, colleagues. Thank you for your numerous presence. The next item is a number of oral questions to the Prime Minister. I assume that you did not all come for the first seven questions on the agenda, but for the topical and urgent debate afterwards. However, the usual order will be followed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic762x.u2	Mr President, Prime Minister, I would like to ask you about your meeting with French President Emmanuel Macron and Luxembourg Prime Minister Xavier Bettel on the future of the European project. The agenda of the meeting included a discussion on urgent proposals for relaunching the European project at economic, social, security and asylum level. That is how you voted in favour of better fiscal harmonisation in the euro area. You also expressed your support for the optimal exchange of national information in the fight against terrorism. Prime Minister, could you introduce us to the debriefing of this meeting? Did you mention the French President's plan for a European defence? What would be the implications of this for our national calendar? The issue of the Tobin tax was also discussed. At the Council last June, you called for the Tobin tax to be applied in a broader context than that within the Group of Ten which has been working on its implementation for several years. Is this idea still relevant and, if so, what initiatives do you intend to take? The French President had expressed reservations about moving forward on this issue in the context of Brexit. Do not your positions, which seem conservative, endanger the future of this TTF that we have been waiting for years? Finally, in this context, have you addressed the issue of combating social dumping? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic762x.u3	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in the context of an informal tripartite meeting on 29 August last, I was able to meet with my Luxembourg counterpart, Xavier Bettel, and French President Emmanuel Macron on a number of issues mainly of a European nature. During this exchange, one important point emerged: the reminder of the will of our various countries to be particularly active in forming, at the departure of the EU, a coalition of good will in order to bring the EU project out of a certain form of immobilism, to move from a Europe that is undergoing action to a Europe that is moving from a Europe of crises to a Europe of projects. In this context, you know that I am active, in collaboration with other colleagues, in trying to develop another method that would allow the European Council to take on more of its role of boosting, its role as a political impetus. This has been reflected relatively concretely in a subject that is very important to many of us: the question of posted workers and the question of social dumping. During this meeting, for example, we aligned a number of positions with France in the context of the debate that concluded a few days ago in order to move forward with the reform of the posted workers directive. This reform seems to be moving in the right direction and seems to be meeting a significant part of our concerns to further improve the fight against social dumping. It is a first translation of a capacity to capture decisions on subjects that have been blocked for many years. Secondly, with regard to the question of the financial transaction tax (FTT) - on which I have regularly spoken in this House - you know the government agreement expressing its support for this FTT under certain conditions, including that of not affecting the real economy, that is, not having a negative effect on our economic development, our growth and our jobs. The debate took place in this context. As I undertook to do so before the House in plenary, before the summer I referred the matter to the European Council with a view to obtaining clarification. I have obtained these clarifications, since France has confirmed its support in principle for such a tax on financial transactions, but within a broader framework, in other words, with more partner countries and also taking into account the potential impacts of the current Brexit negotiations. I can confirm that the finance ministers meeting in Tallinn have decided to continue the technical work related to the tax in order to better integrate this dimension of Brexit. Finally, I would like to mention a complementary aspect: that of the Defence. In recent months, considerable progress has been made in a rather dramatic political direction towards a European defence project. We therefore support the presence of a European pillar in NATO. You know that Belgium has a strategic vision for a Europe of defence, in favour of which we have relaunched investment proposals. In this context, the European bodies, like our country, will have to decide shortly on the entry into force of the PESCO (Permanent Structured Cooperation), as you know, which will, I think and I hope, show a step forward towards a Europe of defence, which may also have to incorporate the strengthening of an industrial strategy. To be synthetic, I intend to remain active in the European debate, by multiplying working meetings, formal or not, with my European counterparts. This afternoon again, I will have the honour to represent our Government at a Benelux summit in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic762x.u4	Prime Minister, thank you for this debriefing and for your answers. I take note that this meeting of the three prime ministers is part of a coalition of good will, attesting to your willingness to build an active Europe. We will of course remain attentive in the coming months to your involvement in this undertaking. I am thinking in particular of areas such as the fight against social dumping, which you have mentioned. For my part, I also wanted to address the fight against tax evasion. The last few hours have shown us that there is still a lot to be done in this area, particularly at European level, of course. With regard to the TTF, I intend that the Ministers will continue their meetings. Since you want a broader framework, I invite you to take initiatives to that end, possibly with other countries.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic762x.u5	Prime Minister, your government finalized the National Pact for Strategic Investments at the end of March. This great future project for our country foresees investments of EUR 60 billion. We have already had an opportunity to discuss this in this committee and you stressed this point in your policy speech last October, stating that this was indeed one of the priorities for the second part of this Parliament. In this context, a Strategic Committee was set up last year and provided you with a first report on the prospects for public investment in key areas such as mobility, digitisation, health and energy transition. This report will be discussed this Friday in the House. From the beginning of the process, you made a commitment to involve the House and the Committee of the Interior in the work. This is indeed the case, and there will be expert hearings on Friday. You have also announced close consultations with interested private partners as well as with federated entities. This morning, the Walloon government announced a major investment plan. So there is a virtuous dynamic that is being put in place. The federated entities are also part of this movement, which we can rejoice at. Prime Minister, could you comment briefly on the main conclusions that were made to you in this report? A diagnosis and working methodology were mentioned in the media. Could you give us some insight into this? What steps are planned at this site, including consultations with public and private partners?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic762x.u6	Colleague, as you know, the government's economic, social, recovery and job creation efforts are based on four pillars that need to interact. First, there is the introduction of structural economic and social reforms to stimulate investment and job creation. A few days ago, the Council of Ministers formally approved, at first reading, the Recovery Act, which will be addressed to the Council of State and which will then come to Parliament. It includes, in particular, the very important reform of corporate tax, to better support the action of enterprises – small and large – for economic development and job creation. Secondly, there are constant efforts to make progress on the fiscal consolidation ground. This is an exciting and passionate exercise that we are debating here. We will see that in the 2017 figures, we continue to make progress in trying to step-by-step address deficits, which are points of fragility for the future if we do not seriously tackle them. Thirdly, we are working to reduce our debt, which remains high in comparison with other European countries. Fourthly, there is a strong ambition to reinvigorate investments. We know not to invest is to postpone a form of hidden debt for future generations. In this context, the first objective of the Pact is to support growth, infrastructure improvement, investment development and employment development. We want to work in a cross-cutting dynamic. One of the strengths of this Pact is to try to break away from the traditional reasoning of working one legislature after another. We are trying to have a transversal vision in time, by 2030. In this context, it seems to me important to rely on a Strategic Committee, which will be present in Parliament this Friday. We want to mobilise non-political actors, economic actors, social actors, academic actors in order to support our strategic reflections of choice, selectivity and priority-setting. There is also political work to seek a consensus that can perhaps go beyond the conventional majority against opposition framework. We'll see if it's possible. I am counting on Parliament in this context. Action must also be taken within the Belgian institutional framework. The concertation committee is the natural space in which governments can synchronize their decisions on the Investment Pact. I am currently working with the Ministers-Presidents to coordinate all the work that will have to be done to ensure that this Pact is a reality in its ability to translate investments into the territories. We receive from the federated entities – Wallonia made a statement on the subject a few hours ago – lists of indicative projects that could feed this consultation in an operational and concrete way. In addition, the Strategic Committee continues its work by drawing on external expertise, in particular to develop our reasoning at European level. One of the important aspects of the Pact, alongside the question of its financing, innovation or public-private partnerships, is its interaction with European requirements for fiscal consolidation and debt. We maintain this political dialogue, which is fueled by the scientific work carried out in the Strategic Committee. I have no doubt that we will have a regular opportunity, within the democratic framework of this forum, to address this project, which is very important for our country, beyond partisan political quarrels.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic762x.u7	Prime Minister, thank you for your positive, enthusiastic and optimistic response. As you said, you have undertaken a number of reforms which are already bearing fruit in the short term and which will still bear fruit in the medium term. In politics, it is also important to consider the length of time. This project goes beyond the next legislatures. You are truly committed to the future by trying to gather as widely as possible. This makes emulations at the level of federated entities. Of course, you can only be encouraged to continue in this area. We will follow carefully the various reports that will arrive. I believe that the support of this committee of experts will also allow us to be innovative and creative in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic762x.u8	Mr President, I was asking this question to the Minister of the Interior and I am happy because I am entitled to the Prime Minister's reply! Prime Minister, in his annual speech on the state of the Union, President Jean-Claude Juncker said that the European Union has made a great deal of progress over the last three years in terms of securing the Internet, but that Europe remains poorly equipped to deal with cyber attacks. That is why the Commission is now proposing new tools, including a European cybersecurity agency, to better defend us against these attacks. The growing use of digital tools, both for administrations and for businesses as well as for individuals, implies an increase in attempts by state and non-state actors to steal data, commit fraudulent acts or even destabilize governments. In 2016, the European Union reportedly recorded more than 4 000 "reciprocal" attacks per day and 80% of European companies experienced at least one incident related to the lack of cybersecurity. The economic impact of cybercrime has increased fivefold over the past four years alone. Prime Minister, what are the figures of cybercriminal attacks that have affected Belgium over the last three years? Can the financial damage be estimated? How will Belgium participate in the new European cybersecurity agency? What resources will the European Union provide to Belgium through this agency? Can additional in-house resources be considered within the government for the training of personnel specializing in cybercrime?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic762x.u9	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, with regard to the development of cybercrime in Belgium, there is an increase in the number of complaints for hacking. To this end, I consulted federal police statistics: 2,054 files opened in 2014; 2,170 in 2015; 2,324 in 2016. It is also likely that not all incidents are systematically reported to the police. Secondly, it is difficult to quantify the exact cost of these cybercrime phenomena. However, the Cyber Security Coalition estimates the cost of cybercrime at around €3.5 billion, representing more than 1% of GDP. With regard to cooperation at European level, we wish to be a full member of the European Network and Information Security Agency. We are represented through the Belgian Cybersecurity Centre (CBC) set up at the beginning of this legislature. The creation of a new European agency is on track. Its installation is scheduled for 2020. At this stage, work on its establishment continues at the European Commission. We attach great importance to the exchange of information between Member States, through channels and procedures that must be quick, efficient and fluid. Equally important, safety standards and standards should be defined as far as possible at European level in order to move towards harmonisation and sharing of standards. Measures must be taken at European level to ensure a level of confidence in Internet networks. The new agency will also have to play a substantial role in implementing cooperation and communication between Member States. It will have to foster cooperation between representatives of the private and academic sectors in an attempt to put in place more effective protection. This includes preventing cyber threats, and raising cyber skills at European level. The means that the current agency provides are in the order of service, advice and solutions. This includes European cybersecurity exercises, support and support for the development of national cybersecurity strategies, cooperation and capacity building in the various national centres, as well as studies on data protection, as you mentioned, or emerging technologies. Finally, I will address the very relevant question of cooperation with universities in general and Belgian universities in particular for staff training. It falls under the functions provided for in the law and regulations of the Belgian Cybersecurity Centre. As such, I can tell you that the CWB has been trying, for some time now, to develop a strategy to raise awareness among academic actors on this issue of cybersecurity. The aim is that, gradually, as much training as possible can be offered and presented by the training and education actors in this field, in order to increase the general level of knowledge, competence and vigilance. This topic will become increasingly important in the months and years to come.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic762x.u10	Prime Minister, I would like to thank you for your answer, which shows that the necessary level of consciousness, both in your leadership and in that of the European partners, is present. This is indeed fundamental, because, during the period we are living, the standards of morality, including the state, have unfortunately moved sharply. I would tend to say that yesterday's fake money dealers have become today's cyber criminals.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic762x.u11	Mr President, Prime Minister, I would like to ask you about the situation in the Democratic Republic of the Congo. The political and humanitarian situation in that country is still very tense. We know that the agreement of the Saint-Sylvestre provided for elections in 2017 and the end of Kabila's reign in December 2017. It is also known that CENI has since presented its timetable for these elections. The population census seems to be progressing and the census for Kasai has yet to be completed. In the context of the United Nations General Assembly, I believe you have met with President Kabila. Can you briefly explain the content of this interview? I imagine you spoke with him about the electoral process in the DRC. What answers did he give you? What about respect for the Constitution and possibly the third mandate? Now that the timetable for these elections has been presented, could you please let me know your position, the position of the government on this matter? I would remind you that the timetable provides for elections in December 2018. Have you raised with him the question of respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms in the DRC? What answers were given by Mr Kabila in this respect? What is his analysis of the security and humanitarian situation?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic762x.u12	Mr President, my colleague, I have indeed had very many meetings on the sidelines of the UN General Assembly, including with President Kabila on 22 September. We have, of course, addressed the political, humanitarian, security and human rights issues in the Democratic Republic of the Congo. I have, of course, stressed the importance of transparent, honest and inclusive elections in order to anchor the country in a democratic process. At a time when the debate on the cost of peacekeeping operations is under way within the framework of the United Nations, it seems to us extremely important to continue to encourage as much as possible the process towards these elections. This is one of the points that I also mentioned specifically in my speech at the UN rostrum. We also discussed the process of voter recruitment by CENI, which, according to President Kabila, had fallen behind as a result of the conflict in the Kasai provinces. President Kabila assured me that this process should be completed as soon as possible. He also assured me in September that the electoral calendar would be published soon and that the electoral laws should then be adopted by Parliament. As you referred to, CENI officially announced a new electoral calendar on 5 November. According to CENI, three elections - presidential, legislative and provincial - are scheduled in just over a year, since the deadline is 23 December 2018. It seems to me important that this proposal or rather this CENI decision be the subject of the widest possible dialogue between all Congolese political representatives of the majority or the opposition, in order to increase the capacity to prepare the electoral processes in a peaceful and transparent manner. The issue of human rights has been mentioned and is obviously extremely important. We have, for example, addressed the issue of the violence that has affected the Kasai provinces in recent months. President Kabila reported on the measures taken by his Government to continue the fight against armed groups in the East and on efforts to pacify the provinces of Grand Kasai. He also assured that those responsible for such violence should be brought before the courts. I am also thinking of this dramatic issue of the murder of United Nations experts. We also addressed the economic and humanitarian situation in the country. On the economic side, you know that there are currently significant difficulties, in particular with regard to the price of raw materials.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic762x.u13	Prime Minister, thank you for these answers. As we know, the DRC remains a partner country for Belgium. It is important to pay attention to the political situation and also in terms of human rights. On the electoral calendar, it also involves an internal dialogue and possibly a transition by December 2018. However, I would like to draw your attention to one point. Now that the timetable has come out, another point emerges in our various contacts with Congolese policies is the problem of financing. We need to pay attention to this because, in view of this timetable, we should not be told that it is impossible to organise elections because there is no funding. Unfortunately, that is what we are beginning to hear. In this regard, I would remind you that, during the discussion of the resolution we voted in this Parliament, I made amendments to propose funding in tranches. I think that is still the case, both at Belgian and European level. Minister Reynders agreed with me on this point. Our country must act in such a way that it can trigger financial aid to set up, as you have said, transparent, democratic and inclusive elections. This requires funding but also logistical assistance. Prime Minister, I ask you to pay particular attention to this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic762x.u14	Mr.President, ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister, your government has made the decision to replace the current 54 F-16s, with a contract signature expected by early 2019 at the latest. The initial amount fixed for this contract is EUR 3.5 billion for the purchase of 34 aircraft. Some time ago, I was asking your Minister of National Defence about this. Indeed, on September 7, the US and British government agencies submitted a proposal to the ACCaP cell, in accordance with the requirements of the RfGP. Of the five models initially competing, only two met the requirements of the RfGP. The French government agency has not submitted a government proposal to this cell. On 6 September, the French Minister of the Army delivered a letter to her Belgian counterpart proposing that our country implement a comprehensive strategic partnership on combat aviation. According to Mr Vandeput, the government would face serious criticism if it continued to take the French proposal into account. This statement therefore suggests that the French proposal is being rejected. He told me, however, that it was up to the government to decide the future of this mail. Prime Minister, what is your analysis of the current situation on this issue? When will the government take a position in this context, and in particular on the follow-up to the letter from the French Minister of the Armed Forces? Finally, before making such a decision, do you intend to consult the Regions and the SPF Economy on the economic and industrial aspects of this replacement? Thank you already for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic762x.u15	Prime Minister, I hope that you will allow me to ask you also about the replacement of the F-16s in NATO policy. We know, Prime Minister, that Belgium is about to sign a far-reaching contract to replace its fighter aircraft. As always for these "contracts of the century", lobbying is going well. On the one hand, some are quite openly defending the American F-35, while on the other hand, several are leaning for the French Rafale. The result is a cacophony within the government and the parties of the majority. Indeed, in committee, Defence Minister Vandeput has repeatedly stated that he is opposed to the French offer and that only the official tender procedure is taken into account. And he repeated it, although representatives of the MR - including Minister Reynders, who had indicated that the Rafale was still in the race - requested that the file be referred back to the government. This request was accepted. It is now learned that the Brussels government will also seek the support of the federal government - with the CD&V and the Open Vld within it - to the French offer. In short, it pulls in every direction, as always when it comes to big money. My questions are as follows, Prime Minister. Do you confirm that the Rafale is still in the race and, therefore, that Mr Reynders is right and not Mr Vandeput? So what is the official position of the government? What were all the lobbying contacts, not only with Lockheed Martin and Dassault, but also with the French and American authorities who - as we know - are heavily involved in this issue?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic762x.u16	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I shall begin by presenting you with a few retroacts so that the ideas can be as clear as possible in this dossier as strategically as financially essential, as you have indicated. On 2 June 2014, a detailed prospecting was launched by sending a survey preparation to five state agencies. It has shown that competition between these agencies is possible. The result of this prospecting was examined in detail by the relevant parliamentary committee on 7 January 2015 and 24 February 2016. Prior to the formal start of the procedure, possible acquisition routes were presented to the Council of Ministers. The Council decided on 2 September 2016 that the investment programme for the replacement of air combat capability would be conducted on a competitive basis, using Article 346 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Like other countries, we could have chosen less transparent and competitive procedures. Instead of bilateral negotiations, we have chosen transparency by properly informing Parliament. Following a positive opinion by the Parliamentary Committee on Military Purchases and Sales, on 17 March 2017, the Council of Ministers therefore approved the formal launch of the proposed acquisition route. On 20 March 2017, state agencies were put in possession of the RfGP, which stipulates that each state agency must submit an offer by 7 September 2017, to the ACCap, which is the body in charge of the analysis of offers. ACCap received two offers: one from the United States and the other from the United Kingdom. The French agency therefore did not introduce an offer in the transparent competition procedure, which had been validated by the government and presented on several occasions in committee. On 6 September 2017, the French Ministry of Defence sent a letter to its Belgian colleague proposing to involve Belgium in the development phase of a new device. On 8 September, the small firm decided to study the legal value of the French letter, while the award process continues with the candidates involved in the procedure defined by the government. On October 4, 2017, the French Ambassador sent a document setting out legal comments on how the French letter could be legally considered. The situation is actually simple from the point of view of diagnosis. On the one hand, a formal procedure was initiated several months ago. Any municipal representative is familiar with the rules of public procurement and competition and knows what a procedure means to objectively make the difference between the advantages and disadvantages of the different offers. On the other hand, outside this channel, there is French mail, which does not meet the criteria and parameters identified under the RfGP. For the time being, the government has taken the view that we need to continue the legal analysis to make the clarity clear, so as not to commit any legal misconduct in this extremely delicate process. We will probably need a little more time to make the legal clarity, since there are separate legal opinions on the subject. I want to be quite clear: in the context of a case of this nature, we will not escape, when the time comes, political appreciation. But we must be able to make this political assessment with full legal knowledge. The seriousness and the requirement of rigour and competence require us to continue to carry out this legal work. This is not a simple task, because, to my knowledge, there are few precedents in the history of our country for a government facing a similar situation, with a procedure set up in identified forms and an approach external to this procedure. The question is: how can this issue be properly addressed? Finally, you mentioned that dates are set, including the date from which the replacement is expected to be effective. I think it's 2023. This is obviously an important date, which we must bear in mind as part of the work that will be carried out within the government in the coming weeks and months.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic762x.u17	Mr. Chair, I thank the Prime Minister for his comprehensive responses and for the feedback he has provided. The first question that can be asked is that only two out of five candidates responded. We had the opportunity to ask ourselves, in the Defence Committee, whether the terms of reference as defined did not address a problem. I understand that the procedures must be respected. Of course, I will not call for illegality. However, this procedure may be interrupted to include all candidates. As we said in the Defence Committee, it could be interrupted while we would add criteria on economic and societal benefits for the Regions. Unless I have been distracted, I have not heard you talk about the role that the Regions could play in this market, knowing that the job benefits could be significant.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic762x.u18	Prime Minister, thank you for your answer. It's not the first time you've been slowing down not to make a political decision, hiding behind a legal analysis. In other files, you did the same thing, and I'll take note of it. I also note that you have not answered my question about the various lobbying contacts that have taken place, except by mentioning a letter from the French ambassador. For the rest, you have not answered this question, whereas lobbying is necessarily exercised and is clearly effective, as there is strong opposition within the government, particularly between MM. Vandeput and Reynders. I'm just telling you to be careful about lobbying, Prime Minister. Remember that in the political history of this country, arms industries have exerted pressure, and even more than pressure, on political parties. It would be harmful for this to happen again, but we have the impression that these pressures are very strong on both sides.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic762x.u19	I will reply very briefly to be complete in the parliamentary debate. At the level of the Regions, indeed, the Minister of Defence has conducted several consultation meetings with representatives of the federated entities on the issue of economic returns.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic762x.u20	I will again question the Minister of Defence on this issue, as it did not seem to be on the agenda at the last sitting in which I called him.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic762x.u21	Eleven questions were put. In accordance with Rules 125 and 128 of the Rules of Procedure, the questioners are given two minutes to put their questions. After the Prime Minister's reply, they also get two minutes for a reply. If we do not have the floor, we shall be able to follow up the topical and urgent debate, either with the questioning or with the replies. I'll invite you to that. Mrs Pas, you have the floor first.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic762x.u22	Prime Minister, something is rotting in the state of Spain. Not only the two Jordi people, the leaders of the independence movements ANC and Omnium Cultural, are behind bars there. The Catalan government members and Prime Minister Puigdemont himself are also facing decades of jail time. Apparently that is Europe in 2017: ten political prisoners in Spain, including democratically elected government members. Their crime? Their ideas. They are only trying to implement for which they were democratically elected in 2015. The implementation of electoral promises is clearly not common practice in this European Union. A procedure which is normally reserved for serious criminals was applied to the Catalan ministers who were arrested. They arrived handcuffed in prison. Fingerprints were taken. They were searched naked and mocked by the police on duty. Even the right to visit the families of those Catalan ministers in prison is limited to one visit every three months. Such treatment seems to be the Spanish interpretation of dialogue, a dialogue that Rajoy has systematically refused since 2010. Spain used funds from the Ancien régime in the 21st century. I wonder what else they'll find out. Maybe they'll find the guillotine again. Anything's possible there, apparently. Even teachers are questioned because they discuss the referendum in the school classes. When I read the reactions of politicians in this country, it turns out that almost everyone, even Johan Vande Lanotte and Karel De Gucht, has finally realised that there is something very wrong with democracy in Spain. Except for CD&V, everyone realizes that there is a fundamental problem there. When I read the reactions of CD&V members, I thought they could be a returned Syrian fighter or an ISIS adept for CD&V rather than a Catalan president. Realizing that something is wrong is one thing, but of course the question is what the government will do about it. Prime Minister, will you address Spain directly, with the explicit question of stopping this repression and releasing the political prisoners? Will you call on the Spanish ambassador? What position will the government take in the European Union? This European Union remains deafeningly silent, and there is no condemnation of the existence of political prisoners. It is clear that there they are very selective with the moral touch. For example, if legislation is adopted in Poland which the European Union does not like, action cannot be taken quickly enough. But apparently the fundamental values, such as freedom of expression, on which the European Union is built, are being applied very selectively. Prime Minister, I would have liked to know whether you will be knocking on the table in the European Union on behalf of the government to encourage them to take action. With a Timmermans, who thinks Spanish violence is proportional, and with a Juncker, who does not even see how those Spanish authorities are violating the rule of law, that is more than necessary. Finally, I have one final question, Prime Minister. I have told you a number of times, and you have said at that time that it has not yet been discussed, because Catalonia had not yet declared independence. Meanwhile, the Catalan Parliament, the legitimate representation of the Catalan people, has declared independence. International recognition of that independent Catalonia is extremely important. That is why I have the crucial question of whether the government will recognise Catalonia's independence. I am very curious to hear your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic762x.u23	Mr President, Prime Minister, as we have already expressed in plenary session, in a rule of law, it is unthinkable to face batons in the ballot box; it is obvious. The images of police violence against citizens who came to us from Spain on October 1st, sadly remind us of violence worthy of another time, which Spain suffered for almost forty years. Like you, we have condemned them because even if it is illegal under the Spanish Constitution, a referendum cannot justify them. It is also clear that the solution to this intra-Spanish crisis will only be resolved through dialogue, a dialogue which, unfortunately, both the Spanish Government and the Catalan separatists decided to break up, many months ago. On the other hand, it is recognized that a unilateral declaration of independence in itself constitutes a pure and hard rejection of dialogue. But let's go home. We have already had an exchange of views on Belgium's follow-up to this crisis. But this exchange left me hungry. And what should have remained a Spanish case has, in the last few days, turned into a Belgian-Catalan case. This case began during the famous exchange in plenary when you never recognized, Prime Minister, that your interlocutor was and remained the Spanish government; you never recognized the unity of Spain. That's when the Belgo-Catalane crisis began. To your silence have succeeded the statements of the N-VA government. There was first the statement of your Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration explaining to Mr Puigdemont, the day after the declaration of independence, how to obtain asylum in Belgium. Such compassion would be appreciated by the Secretary of State for, for example, Sudanese refugees. Then came the statement of your Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of the Interior, Mr Jambon, who went there from his small sentence, and the statement of your Secretary of State, Mrs Zuhal Demir. One was missing, but it is now done because, in turn, your Finance Minister has criticized the Spanish authorities by calling them into question. These various statements, but above all your silence, Prime Minister, have encompassed our country through the expression of its government in a crisis with heavy and tangible consequences in terms of Belgium's international and European credibility delivering the latter hostage to separatist positions. By your laissez-faire, you have helped fuel the Belgo-Catalane crisis. I therefore believe it is imperative that you explain to us your position, your government's position and the state of relations between our country, Spain and the rest of the European Union, unless our country's foreign policy is now also within the competence of your separatist partner in the government and the position of the government is that of the N-VA. This position was hailed yesterday with thanks to his friends from the N-VA by Mr Puigdemont at the Palais des Beaux-Arts, a federal institution, during a visit of two hundred Catalan mayors to Brussels that you will not have the boldness, I hope, to call private. Prime Minister, since the beginning of the crisis but especially since the arrival of Mr Puigdemont and his advisers in Belgium, have you had any meetings in government to decide on a position? Have you given instructions to members of your government? I wouldn't even dare ask you if you used your well-known cropping technique now? Have you had any contact with Mr Puigdemont or his staff since his arrival in Belgium? Have you had any contacts with the Spanish and, more broadly, European authorities? What is the state of our relations with them? How did they react to your government's positions? Finally, Prime Minister, do you recognize the unity of Spain? Does your interlocutor remain the Spanish government? Do you think we can trust the Spanish justice system? Or do you consider it incapable of respecting fundamental rights, like your government partners?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic762x.u24	Mr President, Prime Minister, the situation is changing, but the crisis between Spanish and Catalan leaders is not calming down. The Spanish Prime Minister refuses any dialogue. He took direct control of the region and simply imprisoned the leaders of the Catalan independence movement. European leaders tacitly support this very harsh repression and these unacceptable anti-democratic measures. For his part, the Catalan leader Puigdemont held a very questionable referendum and, in a purely tactical game, made a declaration of independence which he then suspended. He has now come to Brussels to seek protection. The basic question is whether to choose between Catalan independence on the one hand and the authoritarianism and nationalism of the Spanish State supported by the European establishment on the other. My opinion, Prime Minister, is that, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Rajoy and Puigdemont and their parties are the best enemies in the world. While Rajoy claimed to be the guarantor of Spain's unity, Puigdemont stood as a valorous Catalan champion against Madrid. With his coalition, he presented Catalan independence as the only response to social and democratic discontent in Catalonia. Both make forget the unpopularity of their social, rather anti-social, and economic policies and corruption cases for which their parties are guilty. Catalan and Spanish workers have nothing to gain from this independence, which will boost competitiveness at an even higher level. So I don't choose either one. As the non-independence left leaders say – Alberto Garzón, Ada Colau, Pablo Iglesias: "We do not want Catalonia's independence, but we say today: freedom of political prisoners!" Today, Prime Minister, you must not choose, but you must be clear. But you are not. As a daily newspaper published yesterday summed up, you kept "the Spanish goat and the Belgian nationalist cabbage". My questions are as follows, Prime Minister. We asked you to put on the agenda of the European Summit the question of repression and anti-democratic measures. What happened? We still see no reaction at European level, while political prisoners are now incarcerated in the heart of the European Union. Worse, both the French and German Presidents and the Commission continue to openly support Mr Rajoy. Is this your view of the European Union? Does it agree with the existence of political prisoners? Moreover, it appears that the N-VA is trying to exploit an open judicial procedure in our country. On this sign, we even heard yesterday Mr. Puigdemont thank the N-VA. Prime Minister, my question will be simple: why did Mr Puigdemont thank this party? What role does the latter have or, at least, did its ministers play to get such a thank you?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic762x.u25	Debates of the European Parliament Mr De Vriendt has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic762x.u26	Mr President, Prime Minister, I will not speak about the situation of Mr Puigdemont and his Catalan ministers, since it is up to the judiciary, in complete independence, to decide on their situation. We were all arrested by police violence against Catalan peaceful citizens. It was October 1st, the day of the referendum. Things have gone far, far too far. It is one thing to denounce this violence. But it is quite different from questioning the impartiality of justice and the democratic nature of the Spanish State. The Catalans have done so, but they are not the only ones, since successively the Ministers and Secretaries of State Mr Franken, Mr Jambon, Mrs Demir, Mr. Van Overtveldt clearly questioned the impartiality of Spanish justice and the democratic nature of the Spanish state. Four of your ministers have expressed themselves as true spokesmen of Catalan independence. So here we are in the same camp as the Catalans and the Scots. Excuse me for a minute. We find ourselves in an extremely challenging situation. Let's not be fooled! They obviously do so in order to serve their own Flemish independenceist intentions. These pro-independence positions undermine Belgium's credibility on the European stage. These statements by your N-VA ministers also affect your position on the European scene, Prime Minister. You have rightly regularly endorsed a European costume of desire to revive a whole other Europe. Today, your European costume is being damaged. Prime Minister, my questions are very simple. Are you sure or not, the words of your N-VA ministers when they question the impartiality of Spanish justice and the democratic nature of the Spanish state? What is the position of the Belgian Government? What is your position as Prime Minister? If you do not share the words of your N-VA ministers, it is time today to say it loud and clear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic762x.u27	Mr President, Prime Minister, thank you for being here. Ladies and gentlemen, the ongoing debate on Catalonia and Spain is a very emotional debate, which is understandable. However, we must deal with it in a very thoughtful and reasonable way, both in the interests of our country and in the interests of our citizens. We have to keep that in mind. In the debate, three things are fundamental to my party. Firstly, we must respect the constitution. The Constitution is a fundamental framework that gives a country institutional form, includes rights and values and thus also links a country and its citizens. Secondly, we fully understand those states which advocate greater autonomy. Of course, that cannot happen outside the constitution. Nor can we do that without a representative majority of our own citizens. In a unilateral way and by means of an illegal referendum, independence is not tolerated in any country. We also have clear rules about this in our country. There is, among other things, a draft note from the Flemish Government, which clearly states that everything must be done in a democratic and legal manner. Thirdly, very important too, and we point out from the beginning of the conflict: a political dialogue is the only way to find a solution. This means, of course, a real dialogue, a dialogue with a willingness to compromise, with patience, moderation and a dialogue with which we put people together, in this case the Spanish and Catalan Governments. If we look at the debate and the conflict in this respect, it is quite clear that we will condemn violence. Prime Minister, you did that. The government did. All parties have done so. We cannot accept violence against participants in a referendum. That is to be regretted and condemned. It is important, however, that one of the most fundamental values that unites us, including in the European Union, is respect for the rule of law. This also means that we must be vigilant in the debate on the legal procedures under way. We will not give up respect for and faith in the rule of law because of the emotionality in the debate. If we look at the current situation with Belgian or Flemish glasses, we sometimes cannot understand that someone would be persecuted for political reasons. The reference framework of the judiciary in Spain is Spanish legislation. If the Spanish court is suing someone for violating the Constitution, that makes no sense. Our country has little to do with this, if any. However, this does not alter the fact that we must go to a solution, that there must be dialogue. It will never be a legal solution, a political solution will be needed and there will have to be willingness on both sides to do so. For the sake of clarity, we must dare to ask ourselves whether all the tough statements, all the statements of our governments in Flanders and Belgium, have promoted dialogue in one way or another. What have all these statements made by the members of the governments, all these tweets and discussions already resulted in this discussion? We say from the beginning that we must go for reasonableness. We call for calm. The dialogue between Spain and Catalonia is what is important. We must not import foreign conflicts into our country. Prime Minister, I have two questions for you. Firstly, what is the government's position on the presence of the Catalan Prime Minister Puigdemont in our country? Secondly, what is your position on the statements of several ministers of your government on this matter?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic762x.u28	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I think we should be very cautious in principle when it comes to the internal policies of other countries, but I think it is perfectly normal that we should abandon this restraint in the meantime. If a nuclear country of Europe is to be torn apart, then it is logical that this should bother us and concern us as Europeans. If people are threatened with persecution because of their political beliefs, if elected heads of government are imprisoned, then I think it is the duty of all democrats to stand up. My heart bleeds when I find that a beautiful country such as Spain and a strong region like Catalonia are threatened today by irresponsible political behaviour by both Spanish and Catalan nationalists. My grandparents left Catalonia in 1960, not at that time such a strong region, but today a very prosperous region. In that beautiful region today people are forced to choose whether they are Spanish or Catalan, a choice that many Catalans do not want to make. I see beautiful places and squares, where people are literally placed opposite each other by politicians who just have the task of bringing people together. I'm sorry to hear that. I therefore believe that there is an important role for all of us, and certainly for you, in this debate. Prime Minister, I would like to ask you three questions. Firstly, I would ask you to break the silence of the last two weeks. You have made a good start in the discussion. I supported you on the night of the referendum when you clearly condemned violence as one of the few European leaders. Since then, however, you have left the debate in our country to Secretary of State, Deputy Prime Ministers and Party Chairmen, which I do not think is a good thing. I expect a strong leader, a strong Prime Minister, in a discussion like this. You are a bad lawyer for the Spanish, for the Catalans and for Europeans if you leave this debate to others. Secondly, I ask you to take the right tone, to find the right voice and to have your speeches written by the right people. The Belgian attitude should not be written at the headquarters of the European People's Party, colleagues from CD&V, or at the headquarters of the Partido Popular, because our attitude must be strict on Rajoy's action, which in my opinion has lost the legitimacy to still be the prime minister of all Spaniards. The Belgian line should not be written on the writing table of the Flemish People's Movement, the N-VA or the Flemish Interest. The Belgian line must be a line of federalists, an authentic plea for dialogue and cooperation. You must write that line, Prime Minister. Thirdly, my appeal to you is also an apple to Juncker, to Europe. Of course, Europe must be cautious in principle and show some modesty, but I think that the time is ripe today to put that restraint behind us. Europe is or should be a project of dialogue, peace and human rights. Prime Minister, if I have a problem with your silence over the last few days, then I find it very difficult to hear Europe's silence and even incomprehensible that we cannot hear Europe in this matter. My third question to you is to appeal to Europe, to the European Commission and to your fellow prime ministers to start a genuine European mediation to bring Catalans and Spaniards around the table. That is what the country, the region and the inhabitants of Spain and Catalonia deserve.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic762x.u29	Prime Minister, for the past week Carles Puigdemont has been on Belgian territory, projecting our country into a European political controversy where Catalan and Spanish nationalisms clash violently. We, as members of this Parliament, and you, as head of government, do not have to comment on the evolution of what has become a judicial procedure. In a State governed by the rule of law, justice was intended to ensure respect for the freedom of expression and association which were the foundations of the rule of law. The Greens trust the justice of our country and I hope the same is true of my colleagues. We are democrats. In this political context, your Minister of the Interior, your Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration and the President of the N-VA are spreading in more incendiary statements. These even suggest that the exile of the former Catalan minister-president and his staging in the media – yesterday, in Bozar, it was the climax! – have been cleverly orchestrated by your ministers, by members of this government. I recall that Bozar welcomed President Obama a few years ago in a much larger room. Times have changed! These daily spades absolutely do not respect your call not to throw oil on the fire. In addition, these statements leave a bitter taste of double standards in asylum policy. Indeed, in the eyes of your Secretary of State, it is better to come from Catalonia than from Iraq or Darfur to Sudan to have chances of obtaining political asylum in Belgium. This is simply unbearable! Prime Minister, since October 30 – the day Carles Puigdemont walked through Belgian soil – how many formal or informal meetings of the government or its deputy prime ministers took place about this exile? Could you recall the political line that the government as a whole stands on this issue? Does it exist? Because of your nationalist ministers, Belgium is now stuck between the hammer of Spanish nationalism and the anvil of Catalan nationalism. Do you and the Minister of Foreign Affairs plan to act as political intermediaries between these sworn enemies in this imbroglio, which is above all – remember – political and not judicial?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic762x.u30	Mr Prime Minister, like other colleagues, I consider the debate on the conditions for the arrest of Catalan political leaders to be a matter for the assessment of the judiciary. We cannot claim, in Europe, to be guarantors of the rule of law and the independence of the judiciary and to consider that the ongoing judicial proceedings would be instrumentalised by politics. As a lawyer, I wonder whether the criminal inclinations of certain Catalan political leaders are justified. I have more than doubts; even more than fears. But we can still trust the judicial powers of our country and Spain and the possible recourse to supranational courts, such as the European Court of Human Rights, to uphold the fundamental freedoms of our country and our rule of law. Let everyone in this assembly have the dignity to say that they will respect the decisions of the judicial authorities taken independently and without commenting on them or calling them into question, whatever the outcome. On the political side, however, there is no Belgian-Catalan file. There is now a Belgo-Belgian problem solely because of the behaviour of some federal government ministers. Let's not even talk about the Flemish government. Europe's spotlight is on your government because important ministers have decided to adopt an a priori without any nuance or analysis of what is happening in the Spanish institutional debate. It is not for each State to assess the political situations of the other Member States of the European Union. But when you want to do it, you have to do it with some credibility. Today, Europe is interested in your N-VA ministers, but it also knows more and more what they are and what this party is: not only that it is independent but also that it is not always democraticly honorable. We know that in his time, the president of this party shook the hand of a fascist: Jean-Marie Le Pen. We know that a deputy prime minister once considered that the collaborators with the Nazi regime had their reasons – which can have a lot of echo in Europe and is quite unjustifiable. We know that a secretary of state N-VA will unscrupulously participate in the anniversary of a former collaborator. That is the image that is being pierced at European level because your ministers, Prime Minister, allow themselves to teach others the lesson. But when you want to learn the lesson, you have to be respectable yourself. I am afraid that, by the attitude of your ministers, we are putting Belgium's European role at great risk. I fear that one day, voices in Europe may question Brussels as the seat of the European institutions because the European role of Brussels in its impartiality and in its innovative and forward-looking dimension for the future of Europe is challenged by the fanatics of the N-VA.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic762x.u31	The political groups which have not yet spoken can have the floor on the question of the reply, one questioner per political group. Mrs De Coninck wishes to speak.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic762x.u32	Prime Minister, the Catalonia-Spain conflict is basically a political conflict that also requires a political solution. Respect for political freedoms and the rule of law is part of the European Union's DNA. The European Union must ensure our democracy, our rights and freedoms against autocracy, but also against nationalism that has gone through. If we put the EU on trial here, it is not because we do not like the EU, but because we want to strengthen the EU. We want the EU to be a powerful instrument for monitoring democracy in Europe, now and in the future, when it comes to Spain, but also when it comes to undermining the democratic rule of law in Poland and Hungary. We suspect that similar discussions will emerge in the future on the European horizon. We should not just look at the UN to act as a referee. We need to be able to correct ourselves in Europe. We therefore call for a genuine human rights watchdog in Europe, an enhanced Commissioner for Human Rights, who has exclusive competence to oversee and control human rights and the rule of law in Europe, forcefully and with teeth. It is therefore also necessary to create a toolbox. Today, Commissioner Timmermans is responsible for human rights. That is his competence alongside many other powers. You know that sometimes this gets a little snowy. I make the proposal that a kind of secretary of state should be designated at European level under a Commissioner, so to speak, who is given a very explicit mandate with a small and supportive team. Belgium has shown the way in Europe to achieve more autonomy peacefully by reforming our country from a unitary state to a federal state. This was done through dialogue and negotiation. I therefore call for the Spanish-Catalan conflict model not to be imported into our government. Prime Minister, you probably don't expect it from me, but I thought that on 1 October, when you advocated dialogue and violence, you put our country on a rather high moral status. Unfortunately, our country subsequently appeared on the international stage with a shameful cacophony of government members and a whistle-back concert, integrating Spain's division into your federal government. I wonder if you, as a trainer of the team, have not lost control. Did Deputy Prime Minister Jambon break the internal government agreements because of his Sunday statements? What's your reaction to that? Do you still have your government under control as a team? Minister Jambon wondered where Europe was. What are the instruments that Europe needs for you, Prime Minister, to stand here as a watchdog of the rule of law? The UN Commissioner for Human Rights has already called for a thorough, independent and impartial investigation into the violence used by the Spanish authorities and the Spanish authorities. As Prime Minister, will you insist on such an initiative?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic762x.u33	Mr President, Prime Minister, you know that human rights are at the heart of my group. I know that this is also the case with you. You were the first to condemn the violence, and I would like to thank and congratulate you for that. In fact, Mr Puigdemont should have thanked you yesterday, because you are the only one who actually did something. Firstly, I believe that you will be able to answer many of the questions put very easily. You will simply say that the case is pending and that the judge will decide whether or not there will be a tradition. Your answer will be correct, for there is the separation of powers. The judge must now do his job impartially and independently. That is certainly the case. However, I am surprised at the pseudo-legal analyses I have heard here from some groups, not to mention CD&V, for example, that the Spanish Constitution is above everything. Excuse me, but above the Spanish Constitution is the European Convention on Human Rights. I have one question for you: should the judge decide, in complete independence and impartiality, that extradition under a European arrest warrant is an automatic matter, are you aware that this case will indeed be on the table of the government? The European Court has ruled that the implementation of a judicial decision contrary to the ECHR also constitutes an infringement of the ECHR. In other words, should your government execute the judgment, you will violate the ECHR. You are laughing, but I refer to the judgment of the Grand Chamber in the Neulinger and Shuruk case against Switzerland. Prime Minister, the Grand Chamber delivered that judgment by 16 votes to 1. You can get something better, especially a judgment of the Grand Chamber given by unanimity. I am simply asking you whether you are aware that this matter is and will be a matter for the government, given the case law of Strasbourg.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic762x.u34	Mr President, Prime Minister, first of all I would like to stress that it was also very important for my group that you were the first to respond to the violence in Spain. You were therefore the exception within the European Union. It is a position that you have certainly not been thanked for in Spain, but I think it was very important and very relevant. I would like to add immediately that I would like to see you settled in the role of government spokesman, together with the Foreign Minister, in the further development of this crisis. I believe that you do not need the support of other colleagues on your team in this matter. Secondly, those who believe that in this crisis we can confine ourselves to finding that there is now a judicial settlement of the problem are wandering. There is the European arrest mandate and there are different procedures in Spain, but I believe that the Catalan crisis is on the political agenda anyway. This is a political reality. All the Member States of the European Union are directly or indirectly confronted with it. So one cannot get rid of it by saying that one will see what the judiciary will decide. The judicial handling of this matter must be possible on an independent basis, but we cannot look away from the Catalan crisis. What do I mean by that? I also know that the political power of the European Union is, of course, limited. But we have noticed, in other crises, that in a pragmatic, creative and voluntaristic way, we have always managed to move forward. Europe is not a matter for Eurocrats or bureaucrats alone; Europe should be a living political reality. If a very restrictive vision had been adopted at the time of the banking crisis, what would have happened? In the banking crisis, Europe has pragmatically devised European solutions. I note the same with regard to the migration crisis. Everything happened with falling and getting up, and it may have been too slow, but in the end there was a political will to find a solution. In any event, the Catalan crisis is on the agenda. I'm not selectively outraged. I am outraged by the excessive violence of Orbán in Hungary, and I am outraged when I see things happening in Poland that I believe are against human rights and media freedom, and I am outraged today. The indignation must not be selective. If we want Europe to play a role in this issue today, we must not be selective. I know of those who were very angry. The pit was too small here when the Council of Europe descended in Belgium to investigate the application of the Minority Convention in the facilities municipalities. What has Europe gotten into? That was the question of the same people who today believe that Europe should deal with the Spanish-Catalan issue. My appeal and request to you is that, in addition to the judicial process, which must be given all its rights, we work for a diplomatic breakthrough, in the best tradition of our country. I shall come back to that point of conciliation. Justice will not solve that problem, only by political means. Our country has a certain tradition to defend in this respect. My question to you is to play an active and voluntaristic role on the European scene, in order to effectively further shape the diplomatic mission and mediation mission. Are you willing to do that? I would also like to be kept informed in this House of the further evolution of this matter on the European scene, I shall say not daily, but on a regular basis.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic762x.u35	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I shall begin with a few points concerning facts and retroacts and then address some political comments in an attempt to respond to the many issues that have been raised through the various interventions. I'll give you the facts first. On 6 September 2017, the Catalan Parliament adopted a law organising a referendum on self-determination. The Spanish Constitutional Court has declared that law invalid and thus considered the organisation of the referendum to be illegal and unconstitutional. However, the Catalan authorities organised that referendum on Sunday 1 October 2017. The Spanish authorities have tried to stop the organisation of that referendum by various means. This situation has led to violence and I have condemned it myself the day. I also immediately launched a call for political dialogue. The following day, the European Commission issued a similar communication. On 27 October 2017, the Catalan Parliament declared Catalonia's independence. On the same day, the Spanish Senate adopted the measures proposed by the Spanish Government, as well as the activation of Article 155 of the Constitution. The President of the Generalitat was deposed and general elections were announced on 21 December 2017. On 30 October 2017, at the beginning of last week, I was informed of the arrival in Brussels of Mr Puigdemont. No steps have been taken by the Belgian Government to bring him into our territory. The person concerned confirmed this fact. Free movement within the Schengen area allows it, as is the case for every European citizen, to be present in Belgium without formality. As he said, Carles Puigdemont came to Brussels to be in the capital of Europe. There is therefore no question, as some would like to say, of Belgian policy. Moreover, he has not, at this stage, applied for asylum in our country. And, according to his statements, he would not have the intention. On 31 October 2017, the Spanish Constitutional Court suspended the declaration of independence, thereby satisfying the Spanish Government's appeal. The Spanish courts also summoned Mr Puigdemont and 13 former members of the Catalan government to appear on Tuesday, 31 October. On 4 November 2017, the Spanish Central Investigation Court issued a European arrest warrant against Carles Puigdemont and the four former members of its government present in Brussels. The federal prosecutor has received and handed over the five arrest warrants to the Brussels Public Prosecutor. On Sunday 5 November 2017, the persons who are the subject of this order turned themselves in to the police. They were arraigned at the end of the day before the investigating judge of the Brussels Court of First Instance. After questioning, the persons concerned were charged and released under conditions. That's for facts and retroacts! I want everyone to have clear ideas about the successive events that have taken place in Spain and then to experience a turnaround in our country. I come to my first comment, the first message that I want to communicate with the utmost clarity. With regard to the statements made in recent days, when I learned on Monday 30 October that Mr Puigdemont might come to Brussels, I asked the members of the government to exercise discretion, not for eternity, but until I could obtain clarification as to why Mr Puigdemont was visiting our capital. After having obtained them, in particular through the public statements of the latter, I have expressed on behalf of the Belgian Government, on Tuesday - because the government has not kept silent - a common sense position which I hope no group will dispute here: Mr Puigdemont is a European citizen who must answer for his actions like any other European citizen, who has rights and obligations. In other words, he has no privilege, neither is he a sub-citizen. That is the conviction that we share in the name of democracy and the rule of law! I therefore assert with the utmost force that, as early as Tuesday, in the hours following the clarification of the reasons for Mr Puigdemont's visit to Brussels, I have clearly expressed the position of the government as a whole. This means, therefore, that the government will deal with the rule of law, our democratic values and the separation of powers with full respect for the situation of all European citizens on our soil. This is true – and it is true for some – also for Mr. Puigdemont. I repeat this so that it is clear: every European citizen must be held accountable for his actions, including Mr Puigdemont, and has rights and obligations – no more or less. I hope that we can find ourselves on this point. I come to my second consideration. Again, I want to be very clear. The political crisis is in Spain and not Belgium. Of course, it has given rise to political comments - in the majority as in the opposition, I recognise it. They then gave rise to media interpretations - it is the freedom of expression that our democracy guarantees. That doesn't impress me very much. On behalf of the government, I recall that since the first day, we have been extremely clear - as some have been kind enough to report. We immediately launched a call for dialogue, for political dialogue in Spain between the political actors. That is our and also my personal conviction. A political crisis requires a political, sustainable solution. That is our strong conviction, which is also based on our experience in our country. Over the last three decades we have occasionally been faced with very difficult Community or institutional discussions, political debates. This has taken some time, but we have always succeeded, in accordance with our own institutional order and our Constitution, in taking steps in the right direction to find another form of stability. Let us be clear: there is a political crisis in Spain, not Belgium! Of course, as some have said, there is a judicial rebound in Spain and Belgium as well. It will be treated as such in Belgium and not otherwise. It is not and will not be a matter of government. It is a question of democracy, the rule of law and the separation of powers. I am extremely clear about this. I will, in my capacity as Prime Minister, ensure that there is no interference with these principles, which are sacred in Europe and in all democracies, namely the independence and impartiality of justice and the separation of powers. Thirdly, justice must be allowed to work. On the subject of the European mandate, it is not up to the government to decide on this judicial procedure. As I said, she will report to the judicial authorities. To be complete still this. As far as the question of the mandate of an asylum application is concerned, this is not on the agenda, but I would like to clarify it. Any European citizen can apply for asylum in our country. We are not the only European country in which such a possibility exists. If that were the case, there should be no appreciation in the Council of Ministers for this either. The Commissioner-General for Refugees and the Stateless shall have the power to rule in all independence without the intervention of a State Secretary, a Minister or the Council of Ministers. The Office of the High Commissioner is competent. Judicial rules relating to the latter may apply to the manner in which such decisions are taken. Fourth point: I hear surprising comments - I use this term to remain a diplomat in the choice of words I use in this forum. Still, our diplomacy is solid and effective. There is no ambiguity in this regard. We have an interlocutor, the Government of Madrid and Spain in this case. We have regular contacts with this interlocutor, through all diplomatic channels, at the highest level given the circumstances; contacts to avoid misunderstandings, misunderstandings and pedagogy about our rule of law and the rules in Belgium, when a European arrest warrant is issued and an application for asylum is made in Belgium. I can tell you that for the past three years, I have been appreciating the quality, strength and credibility of our diplomatic force, under the leadership of the Minister of Foreign Affairs. I do not appreciate, moreover, the messages that try to weaken our image on the European and international scene at the start of some opposition parties. It does not seem to me to be responsible, wise or serious. In conclusion, as Prime Minister, I consider that I do not have to rule on court decisions, either in Belgium or in other European countries. Secondly, our diplomacy is solid and works on a daily basis with our Spanish partners and with the European authorities. Yesterday I had contacts at the highest level with the European authorities on certain matters concerning the situation in Spain and its consequences in our country for the judiciary. The European arrest warrant is a matter for Justice. It is not and will not be a matter of government. My most important message is: dialogue, dialogue, political dialogue. In a few weeks there will be elections, not in Belgium, but in Spain. I hope that the elections may also be a democratic rendezvous in order to send a clear message for political agreements in Spain. As you have understood, the government is on an extremely clear line: separation of powers, full respect for the judicial authority, diplomatic work from our strong and credible diplomatic forces to ensure, in the circumstances, that a quality dialogue with our Spanish partner in the European Union is maintained. I hear the messages and the concern about Europe's role. In this context, we also carry out, not necessarily on the megaphone, the necessary diplomatic and useful contacts. I am leading them, when necessary, personally so that Belgium's credible voice can also be heard in this matter at European level. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic762x.u36	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your reply. You speak powerful language. You condemn again, and rightly so, the violence, and that graces you. But I'm still disappointed with your answer. I also received a condemnation of the existence of political prisoners in the European Union, as did your fellow Members in the European Union. I am also disappointed that you are restricting yourself to calling for political dialogue. The actions to this end are limited. I hear a lot of calls for respect for the Constitution here. Colleagues, states make laws, but laws don't make states. Surely that respect for the Constitution is very selective to you. Where was the respect for the Serbian constitution when Kosovo became independent? At the time, none of that was a problem. The Spanish constitution binds the Catalans as much as a French constitution that would decide tomorrow that Flanders will belong to France again. The only way forward, in matters like this, are general principles such as respect for democracy and the right of peoples to self-determination, and above all the hope that these principles will be respected by the international community. Here too, Mr Prime Minister, I have been very disappointed by your reply. You have not answered my question, and I know enough of that. The government will not recognise Catalonia's independence at all. Too bad! I am very disappointed that the N-VA cannot make a difference in your government. Finally, Prime Minister, when politicians are dragged before criminal courts for their political convictions and their actions, something is thoroughly wrong. It is no longer a question of an internal Spanish matter, and we must not confine ourselves to calling for dialogue. I have asked you all kinds of questions about what you could actually do. You have no intention of taking any of these measures. That was very clear from your answer. I can only hope that, as has happened in history before, a government in exile can return victoriously. I very much hope that this will also be the case in this case. It is clear, however, that they will not be able to count on the support of the European Union and the Belgian Government.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic762x.u37	Mr President, Prime Minister, as you may know, you have not convinced me. There is still a Belgian crisis because you have still today refused to condemn the unconstitutional referendum. You have not shown your confidence in Spanish justice and in its ability to respect fundamental rights. It is a Belgian crisis because today there is a crisis between Spain and Belgium. Dozens of Spanish television cameras testify to this. It is a Belgian crisis because yesterday, two hundred Catalan elected officials were in a federal institution to applaud their leader who thanked your friends and partners for your majority. This is a Belgian crisis because you can't even hold your ministers. Previously, you were talking about cropping. Today, you call them at discretion. I invite you to change your method because neither one works. You look ridiculous. Because of you, Belgium looks ridiculous. Perhaps we are shouting in favour of Europe. But the problem is that it's the N-VA that holds the megaphone. In doing so, Belgium is hostage to Belgian and Catalan separatist positions. That is the reality, Prime Minister!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic762x.u38	Mr President, Prime Minister, I have heard your answers. First of all, let me say that Belgium is not well placed to give lessons to another country in order to resolve Community conflicts. Let me remind you that we knew a state without a government for 541 days. We are therefore not in a position to give lessons in this area. You condemned Spain's violence in the referendum. That's a good thing. This is proof that you have the power and the right to express yourself on these issues. Yet when it comes to imprisoning politicians, you refrain from reacting. Why do you express yourself on one question and not on another? What are you doing when it comes to Europe? Obviously, you are subject to the dominant position of the Member States in accepting that there may be political prisoners in the countries of the European Union. Obviously, you don't have a problem with that. This is your conception of the European democratic model. For me, it's a real concern. But we are also faced with another concern as part of your government's participation in a party that is constantly putting oil on fire – I am referring here to the N-VA – which invokes respect for human rights for Catalans, but which ignores the same human rights as regards refugees. Of course, there is no question here of Catalan refugees, because in this case his position would undoubtedly change. We would then have a doctor Theo, nice to the Catalans, and a mister Franken, ruthless to the other refugees. That is human rights, it doesn't matter when it comes to trade union rights or the right to strike, since we know that the N-VA is in the vanguard to break those rights. Nor does it respect the separation of powers on the part of a Theo Francken who defies judges and does not respect judicial decisions when they do not suit him. This double standard seems problematic to me. We must not let this party put oil on fire, where dialogue is needed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic762x.u39	Mr President, Prime Minister, as I said, I agree with you on the need for strict and absolute respect for the independence of justice so that there is no interference but also on the fact that this is a Spanish political question which must find a political answer in the dialogue. Let me say, however, that your remarks seem to me to be insufficient in the face of the overbidding of your N-VA ministers in recent days, who question the impartiality of Spanish justice and the Spanish rule of law. You are masking the inside of your government badly today because your N-VA ministers have in recent days been using Belgium, the Belgian state, from within the government, to assert and serve their own partisan interests, of Flemish independence. Is it worth recalling that ministers are there to serve all citizens and not to serve their partisan struggles? What matters is also what Catalan citizens will decide on 21 December in a democratic election. Until then, Prime Minister, I think you should clarify things internally in your government so that your N-VA ministers do not speak out and continue their small pro-Puigdemont statements every two days. Finally, I would like to recall what seems to me to be central to what we are experiencing through the Catalan crisis. What is central is also the future of the European Union. Who can believe that regions that want to break national unity will, tomorrow, want to build European unity and revive a whole new Europe? Who can believe that agreements difficult to 28 can be reached in 274 regions? The future of the European Union remains central to me. Today, in this Catalan crisis, we should talk about it much more and affirm these convictions. You have repeatedly endorsed the European costume of the revival of a whole other Europe. Prime Minister, today I expected you to do so despite and above all because of the statements of your N-VA ministers. I hope that, in the coming days, this pro-independence game from within your government will cease. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic762x.u40	Mr President, Prime Minister, I think there are certain points of agreement. Unlike some of my colleagues, I do not want to put up a terrible picture of our country here. There's enough division to keep that from magnifying. As in my first speech, I would like to highlight a number of points and thank you for a number of points. Well, I'm still a little hungry. You rely on discretion and diplomacy, but I think you are too discreet and too diplomatic in your answer today. In fact, your discretion smells a bit like powerlessness, a lack of authority and certainly a lack of clarity, because the other players in this debate do handle the megaphone. More than that, some even use the matrak in this debate. I believe that our plea for peace, for human rights and for dialogue deserves a megaphone and I would like our Prime Minister to use that megaphone. In that sense, I find your answer too discreet and too hesitant. I express myself with caution, but I regret that you are not taking any more initiative and are not calling on Europe to bring the Spaniards and the Catalans around the table because this is indeed true, and you are right to be the only way out of the impasse. That should in principle be the European method; that is also a bit the Belgian method. Contrary to some of my colleagues who have spoken before and used the megaphone, I am proud to live in a country today where such conflicts have been resolved or avoided in a peaceful way in the past. Furthermore, and I agree with what Mr Dewael has said, I really hope that some people's speeches will mark a new era and that some people's indignation is not selective. I hope that the hospitality of our Secretary of State is sincere and will not be selective. I hope that the hospitality he is using today for people who are threatened with being imprisoned for their beliefs will also apply to those who do not want to split up their country. I hope that the appeal and support for human rights by the N-VA will also be heard when it comes to Hungary and Poland. At other times, you are the friends of the British Conservatives who want as little Europe as possible, and now, rightly, with us, you are calling for an active Europe, a project of dialogue and human rights. If that is the result of this crisis, a bit of a Belgian crisis, Prime Minister, then there is still a positive point. There are still many negative points or many points of work, both for your majority, for the government, and for the Spanish and Catalan politicians.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic762x.u41	Mr President, Prime Minister, in substance, Rajoy attacks the ideas and political acts put forward by Puigdemont with the police batons and, perhaps, one day, the sentences of justice. However, political ideas and actions must be sanctioned by voters and no one else. On what is happening in Belgium, your N-VA ministers certainly boosted tourism in Brussels, in particular yesterday, and we thank them for that. More seriously, they have made Brussels, in recent days, the capital of nationalism, self-absorbing, selfishness and ideology of the nineteenth century. Now, ladies and gentlemen, we are in the 21st century! When we talk about Catalan nationalism or other nationalisms, we don't talk about global warming in the middle of COP 23! The real challenge of the 21st century is that of Brussels as the capital of Belgium and of a plural Europe, rich in its differences, its mixtures, its tradition of dialogue and collaboration. You say you're acting in the underhand, discreetly without wearing a megaphone. It is true that the nationalists stole the megaphone from you, Prime Minister. But, Mrs Fernandez Fernandez, I think you should remove the megaphone from Mr Di Rupo.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic762x.u42	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic762x.u43	To conclude with an expression by my colleague and group leader Jean-Marc Nollet: "The problem is not oil" (to put oil on fire) "but the use made of it." I would like you, Prime Minister, to put oil in the workings and not on fire.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic762x.u44	Mr. President, Prime Minister, you say you have invited the members of the government to exercise discretion. You can't be said to have been heard. But we know that, unfortunately, for what remains of this legislature, the N-VA will continue to subject you to this Chinese torture of dripping. Untiringly, the N-VA is forcing the evolution of this country, in contradiction with its tradition, in particular, European. The great Spanish writer Javier Cercas signs in Libération, a very interesting, weighted and nuanced paper that says: "Whatever happens, I have no doubt about one point: we live in Catalonia a phenomenon that we have often seen in history, especially in the recent and unfortunate History of Europe. Carefully intoxicated by poisonous fantasies, the best people are able to make the worst mistakes." He added: "The disintegration of Spain would endanger Europe's unity and stability." That's what this is about. You can hear the self-governing claims. But when it comes to announcing the breakdown of solidarity, the very foundation of the European project, the heads of government and state must have the courage to say that the future of Europe is not being built on the breaking of the solidarity that all nationalists in Europe want. For this is indeed the greatest threat to the future of Europe. And you didn't say that!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic762x.u45	Mr President, Prime Minister, thank you for your reply. It is a good thing that you continue to argue in favour of dialogue. There are three lines in the debate. There's the emotional line, with the violence. We have strongly condemned this, and that is good. We are on the legal line, which you say the court should do its job. We are on the political line, and this means engaging in dialogue. That will only work if the two parties sit around the table. We do not choose the Catalans or the Spaniards, we choose the dialogue. We cannot, on the one hand, advocate dialogue and, on the other hand, choose one of the parties. I think it is important that we continue to work on this. It has been mentioned here a number of times that we in Belgium have a very admirable history in this area, where we quietly engage in dialogue with questions from the Länder for greater autonomy. We can use the knowledge we have acquired in this process perfectly. Our diplomacy has also done a great deal behind the scenes in the past. We must ensure that this can happen in the future. Let us, as you yourself said, work towards a real dialogue within a legal framework. That is the only possibility within the European framework that can succeed and that will not object to our common future.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic762x.u46	The groups that have not yet taken the floor in this debate can now join in.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic762x.u47	Mr President, our group wanted to hear the various questions and your answers, Prime Minister. We come to the conclusion of this. First, the separation between the judiciary and politics is an unconditional pillar of any democratic system. Even with a lot of imagination, I don't see what other government - God preserves us! - would have made a decision on this matter other than the one that your government has made, Prime Minister. This is a very important point. Secondly, if Mr Puigdemont and the Catalan mayors are in Brussels, it is, and they have said it themselves, because Brussels is the political capital of the European Union. That's why they came here. I do not want to argue, but I can hear Mr Maingain saying: "There is a risk for the European capital here in Brussels." We all hope that the capital of the European Union will remain in Brussels. But this implies that it is also necessary to assume that political problems come to Brussels. However, we must not immediately hope that this will become a Belgian-Belgian problem. It is also the role of a European capital. Thirdly, I will not go back to the developments that have already been made. It's a Spanish crisis. Our Government, with our diplomacy, wishes to work for intra-Spanish dialogue. But I also agree with many of our colleagues, including Mr Dewael, when he says that seeing politicians locked up for their opinions does not correspond to European fundamentals. Unlike others, I have heard in your reply your willingness to work with our diplomacy to try to move forward on this issue, as you have already done at European level, Prime Minister. I am not saying that we must go to what Mr Juncker feared, a kyrielle of small states - it is a somewhat curious answer on his part. But if Europe does not understand that it must put in place a mechanism to better hear the concerns of the people, I believe there will be a danger. Our group relies heavily on you, Prime Minister, and on your diplomacy, to advance the European project in this area. Finally, Mrs Fernandez Fernandez, I recommend that you have a dialogue with your party president because you have made absolutely irreconcilable comments today.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic762x.u48	Mr President, today we have seen that those who want to turn the Spanish-Catalan crisis into a Belgian crisis will have to eat a few more paella plates. There is clearly no such crisis. Prime Minister, we support you in your commitment to dialogue and in your condemnation of violence. That's still the government line. The fact that the various parties put different emphasis on behalf of their party is called democracy. "The shock of ideas springs the light" zullen we maar hopen. I confirm that our group has not received any congratulations from Mr Rajoy. I hope, moreover, that this is the case for all the groups. I also note, however, that too many groups here wish to interfere in internal matters. We have made it clear that the future of Catalans, in accordance with international law, is a matter for Catalans. I am told here that it is necessary to call for unity or federal solutions. That is, of course, an attempt to replace the Catalans. Prime Minister, I am very glad that you have not responded. We do not need to tell the Catalans what solution to choose. It's in their hands. By the way, I have heard Ecolo use words that were used against Flemish nationalism in the nineteenth century. Mr Hellings, perhaps you have looked into the old parliamentary debates. The nineteenth century inspires you very much. In any case, dialogue, non-violence and respect for national and international law are the pillars within which the solution must be found. Ladies and gentlemen, I will not be the only one, but I note that we are entering another dimension here, namely the dimension of the credibility of the European idea. This is not a local problem, but in terms of the solution, but not in terms of the tactics and techniques used. Spain is not on Saturn. Spain is part of the European area. We note that they support and encourage this silence, de facto, Rajoy's repressive action. We note that silence, especially for political parties, is not an option. I will conclude by saying that it is a Parliament here. In our capacity as Members of Parliament, we may also have to assume our responsibilities in the current important circumstances. Many parties here have Spanish or Catalan sister parties or have warm contacts with parties on that side. I repeat the dialogue, international law and non-violence. Can I call on all my fellow Members, particularly the Socialist Group and the Christian Democrat Group, to urge their Madrian fellow-guess to find solutions within the spirit of the three elements that we have put forward here? I think that, without constantly criticizing or trying to criticise government policy, Members may be able to add a useful role to the government's policy.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic762x.u49	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Raoul Hedebouw was withdrawn.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic762x.u50	Prime Minister, on 16 October last you met in Brussels your French counterpart, Mr Édouard Philippe. During this meeting, many topics of common concern were discussed. The Seine-Nord Canal project, whose socio-economic and ecological issues are important for our two countries, was one of the topics for discussion during this interview. Through the press, you have expressed your wish to move forward on this issue, which is of particular interest to you. In addition, the French Government has confirmed, by the voice of its Prime Minister, its willingness to make every effort to ensure that the project succeeds. Prime Minister, can you confirm to me today that the entire Belgian government is supporting the Seine-Nord Canal project? Will it make every effort to ensure that it is executed as planned?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic762x.u51	Mr. Member of Parliament, at my recent meeting with French Prime Minister Édouard Philippe on October 16, we had the opportunity to take stock of the status of this issue. As you know, several large-scale programmes were put in brackets by France this summer because of the high cost of the investments they required. According to our information, the Seine-Nord project was part of it. As a result, a doubt was cast on the possibility of seeing this project progress. During my interview with the French Prime Minister, I asked for clarification and recalled the strategic interest of this project, in particular by stressing its importance in stimulating the economy in the areas concerned. My counterpart was reassuring when he told me that the French government was not questioning the merits of the project. As a result, doubts could be raised. He also provided me with comments on the funding arrangements. Several avenues are being explored with local authorities to see on what solid basis funding can be provided. The initial allocation provided for a contribution of about 40% from the European Commission, 20% from the French State, 20% from local authorities and finally 20% from a loan from the Canal Corporation. Prime Minister Édouard Philippe did not question the 20% funding from the French government - this is an important detail. However, in the case of the loan to be contracted by the Société du Canal, the French State does not wish to assume it in the event of default of payment by the Société du Canal. If necessary, this would double its contribution to the project. One of the tracks explored would be a regionalization of the Canal Corporation. In this way, the loan guarantee would be provided by the local authorities. Similarly, the control of the work and the risks inherent in the undertaking would also be taken over by the latter. In plain terms, the French Prime Minister has provided several information on the progress of the dossier on the French side. However, I want to remain extremely clear on the subject, Mr Member: the Regions, in France and Belgium, as well as the local authorities and local elected representatives, will play an important role in the finalization of such a project. I will, of course, be attentive to the development of this dossier.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic762x.u52	Prime Minister, your answer concerns only France's position, but my question was whether, behind you, everyone was there? I suppose the answer is yes?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic762x.u53	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic762x.u54	Yes? So you confirm. I therefore hope to have understood that you confirm that the whole government is supporting the Seine-Nord project, as Mr de la Palisse would have said, the entire MR family. Prime Minister, I do not like policies with variable geometry because, for this project, it means that we agree to touch the Pont des Trous in Tournai. You can't say white in Brussels and Namur and pretend to defend the black in Tournai. Since you took the position of Prime Minister, you have gained exceptional experience in the field of cropping. Mr. Brico is, next to you, a choir boy. I would remind you, however, that this dossier has yet to pass the direction of the municipal council of Tournai with regard to the alignment of the facades. Neither my political family nor myself will we be the turkeys of the farce - as you know right away in order to avoid using the services of a deminer and a framer. So use your talent because, if this file were not to pass the board's course, the recourse would be dealt with in Namur and, since Bastogne's boar improvised electrician, we cannot even put on the back of these inconceivable socialists the future of this file and its consequences. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic762x.u55	May I ask the journalists and the TV crews to keep the silence? Please make that clear to them, because I think they speak a language other than mine.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic762x.u56	Prime Minister, the European Council in October was to discuss the development of the negotiations in the framework of Brexit. Mr Tusk's alarming statements are hardly reassuring: he told MEPs in Strasbourg to consider all the scenarios, including that of the aborted Brexit. Prime Minister, can you give me a debriefing of what was announced about Brexit at the October European Council? What is the status of these negotiations? What was Belgium's position in this context?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic762x.u57	Mr President, we considered that there were two stages. A first step on three issues: the situation in Ireland, the Brexit divorce bill and the issue of the rights of European citizens. We had the opportunity to take stock at the last European Council, following a presentation by Michel Barnier. The reaction of 27 Member States is largely consensual in terms of analysing the political situation at this stage of the negotiations. We found that there was insufficient progress on the three points in question. This will be discussed again at a forthcoming European Council in December. To be a little more precise, we note that progress has been made on the rights of European citizens, even if there is not yet a definitive agreement. The question of Ireland remains extremely delicate and difficult, especially because there is a potential link with access to the internal market. Finally, the question of the financial side remains too vague in the eyes of European negotiators. We expect more commitments, more details from the British leader. The second stage should only begin when there is an assessment that sufficient progress has been made in the first stage. With regard to this second stage, it was formally agreed that there would be no start of negotiations with the British at this stage, but that there would be the start of a 27-step process to prepare possible positions in the subsequent process. In addition, the British also expressed that the need for a transitional period might become a reality. This subject will also need to be clarified. In short, we are careful to defend our economic, political and strategic interests. Belgium is one of the countries potentially affected by the consequences of Brexit. We are therefore particularly committed, together with our diplomats, to following up on this important negotiation for Europe and for our country.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic762x.u58	Prime Minister, thank you for your answers. This is a very important issue for which parliamentarians must have all the information and be involved in the process. I therefore invite you to take up the briefings and debriefings of the summits in the Opinion Committee on European Affairs.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-08-54-commissie-ic762x.u59	Mr Gilkinet is not here. He didn't ask for conversion or postponement either. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, his question No. 19561 as repealed. That also applies to Question No 1, by Mr De Gucht, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European
