ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-18-54-commissie-ic571x.u1	Mr.President, Minister, the sabotage of Doel 4 took place on the 5th of August, 2014. This deliberate act could have caused a huge catastrophe if the turbine, which is 30 meters long, weighs 740 tons and turns at more than 3,000 turns per minute, had come out of its axis to become a real projectile. In an interview given on November 8, 2014, Electrabel's boss, Mr. Van Troye, stated that Doel 4's sabotage prevented him from sleeping. However, this did not prevent him from restarting the plant a month and 10 days later, on 19 December, without knowing the perpetrator(s) of this grave act, but with the green light of the Director General of the Federal Agency for Nuclear Control, who nevertheless thought, in September 2014, that the revival would be at least delicate until the authors were known. When I asked, two years ago, on January 7, 2015, Minister Jambon about the progress of the investigation, he told me not to know "why it takes so long". When I re-questioned him a year later, he said to me "understand the criticisms that it takes a lot of time to get a result in an investigation on such an important subject". And he told me to have "the hope that, on the side of justice, one will come quickly with a result (...)". It was January 13, 2016. Six months later, on 22 June, I added a question: "In addition to the loss of 65,000 litres of oil in the turbine, was there not another sabotage on the same day?" And he replied that it was indeed "also found that one of the three pumps in the emergency food water system was no longer available due to a failure." To my question as to whether this anomaly was to be linked to the sabotage act on the turbine, he replied that the investigation was still under way on this point. At the same meeting in June, I asked him whether it would not be time for him to speak to you "so that a communication can be established and we can take stock of the situation". He replied that he had "already made a request to the Minister of Justice on this subject," but he added that he could not "force his hand", suggesting clearly that you had not followed his request yet as legitimate as minimalist. Today is January 2017, 29 months after sabotage. And I come back with the same questions, the same questionings, but they're getting heavier and heavier. And this is all the more so since according to the information published on the sites of the RTBF and the VRT on 24 December, the investigation is coming to an end while the culprit is still running, which would have prompted ENGIE Electrabel to request an additional investigation by filing a motion to this effect at the end of December with the investigating judge in Brussels. Do you confirm that? How should this request be interpreted? What will be the scope of this supplement in view of what has already been achieved in the previous 30 months? Had an important part been forgotten? More broadly, I would like to ask you the following questions. What's the status of the investigation? What actions have been taken? Some refer to the use of polygraphs but are denied by about ten staff members. Do you confirm that? What are the results, if only partial and provisional, of this survey? What is known about the author(s) and their motives? Why aren't we more advanced? What resources are devoted to this investigation, which, at first sight, takes place in a closed place with a restricted area of potential suspects. What link can now be made to the other problem identified on the same day at Doel 4? And finally, are you now more likely to report on the state of the investigation than you were seven months ago at the request of your colleague?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-18-54-commissie-ic571x.u2	Mr President, Mr Nollet, the Prosecutor's Office informs me that the investigation carried out by the investigating judge of East Flanders is still under way. The investigation is conducted in an uninterrupted and active manner and is not unduly delayed, I am told. In December 2016, additional investigative documents were actually requested by Electrabel, partially followed by the Federal Public Prosecutor's Office. At the present stage of the investigation, in its interest and in view of its secret character, no answer can be given to the specific questions relating to this case.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-18-54-commissie-ic571x.u3	Mr Minister, this sabotage could have led to the greatest disaster ever known in Belgium, a nuclear disaster in this case. We didn't go far. I suppose you're aware of that. I fully understand that an investigation must be carried out in the utmost secrecy, but I believe that after 29 months, we have the right to have a minimum communication from the prosecutor's office, from the judiciary. I'm paralleling the attacks. Here, too, it is grievous facts, with the death of more men, but we have a regular press conference that keeps us informed of the progress of the investigation, with certain elements that of course remain confidential and secret. I cannot understand – I am not the only one, Minister Jambon said it himself, and I think that other actors and all those who follow this dossier do not understand it either – that there has not been any communication, even if only on what is being mobilised, on what has been said in relation to the polygraph. But even on that, you don't answer. Even on the possible link to the second incident noted, you do not respond. Are both related to sabotage? You're not answering. ENGIE Electrabel makes a request to go further in the investigation and we, the public – behind me, people ask the question too; it's not me personally – we have absolutely no information. And still today, you stay on that line. May I ask you, minister, to intercede with the prosecutor's office to communicate a minimum of the state of the situation? This plant restarted and the deputy head of the AFCN, at first, said: "It will be very difficult to get it started if we don't have any information about the author." We don't have any information about the author. We don't have any mobile information. We don't have any information. It's not normal. We need a minimum of communication.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-18-54-commissie-ic571x.u4	I will not fail, Mr. Nollet, to communicate your incomprehension to the prosecution.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-18-54-commissie-ic571x.u5	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-18-54-commissie-ic571x.u6	Question No 15765 by Mrs Jadin is postponed. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Van Hecke's 15771 has been converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-18-54-commissie-ic571x.u7	Mr Minister, technology is improving. Today, consumers can purchase goods that are increasingly equipped with some sort of tracking system. This is not only the case with cars, but also with multimedia products such as laptops and smartphones, which can be found up to two years later. If such a device is stolen, the advantage is that the owner can easily see where the device is based on the built-in software. That tracking system sends out a very accurate location. That could be a huge help for the investigation services and researchers: one can react much faster and play briefly on the ball. The good thing about that would be that trust in the judiciary and police could increase. On the ground it does not seem so obvious and there is still a lot of hesitation. The information must not be used for any reason, nor must one enter a house where such a device would be located. Mr Minister, can a signal sent out by such a device after theft declaration provide sufficient grounds for issuing a search warrant? If so, to what extent do the investigation services use it?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-18-54-commissie-ic571x.u8	Ms De Wit, the investigating judge may issue a search warrant in case he or she has evidence that there are pieces or objects at that place that may contribute to the discovery of the truth in relation to the crimes referred to in the search warrant. That is confirmed in a judgment of the Court of Cassation. If a stolen device is located or can be located by sending a signal, the investigating judge may deliver a search order to confiscate the device. If the victim or a third party, e.g. a private security center that locates the stolen property, reports to a police department, it is up to the prosecution to decide whether the facts are sufficiently important to have a judicial investigation initiated by an investigating judge and to have a search conducted. No centralised figures are kept on the number of search warrants delivered and the reasons for them. However, police reports that tracking systems are often not sufficiently accurate to determine exactly where the devices are located, especially in the case of a densely populated urban environment. The tracking systems offer mainly advantages in case the facts are reported immediately and the local police are in a position to immediately search for the fugitive. If a search is then carried out, it is usually in the context of the red-handed procedure by an officer of judicial police who is an assistant officer of the King's Attorney General, and not with a search warrant from the investigating judge.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-18-54-commissie-ic571x.u9	It is in itself very interesting to know what can or cannot be done as a result of these new developments. What I'm worried about is that if catching in the act isn't possible, the prosecution can decide whether or not there's gonna be a judicial investigation to get a search warrant. In view of the number of things that have to go through the bottleneck today, I fear that it will happen too often that it is known where the stolen property is, but that the injured citizen remains in the cold. For understandable reasons, it will not always be the priority for the prosecution to pursue that judicial investigation and thus to have the opportunity to obtain a search warrant. I find it particularly interesting to follow developments further and to see if there is any other way of dealing with them. As a citizen, one can of course always call and ask for the stolen goods back, but that does not, of course, give any guarantee.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-18-54-commissie-ic571x.u10	Mr President, Minister, the former gendarmerie in Tournai, rue de la Citadelle, is in a very deplorable state. The entire building has been unoccupied for a dozen years as a result of a transfer of police activity to another location. I am dismayed that today the old gendarmerie is not maintained at all. Worse still, anyone can enter without difficulty. A question was put to Minister Jambon, who has in his jurisdiction the Régie des Bâtiments in order to alert him to the situation concerning the non-security of the premises. If I may question you, it is because many archives from the courthouse in Tournai are piled up in an annex to this old gendarmerie. If anyone can venture into this room without too many obstacles, it seems quite problematic. Minister, are you aware of the presence of judicial archives in this building of the former gendarmerie? How is it that such documents are in an unsecured and abandoned room? Do you intend to pick them up and install them at a designated location?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-18-54-commissie-ic571x.u11	Mr President, Mr Delannois, in May 2005, the SPF Emploi, Travail et Concertation sociale placed the seals on the archives located in the attics of the courthouse in Tournai, threatening to do the same for the entire palace if the archives are not evacuated. It is in this emergency context and in view of the risk of fire caused by the heat load of the archives located in the attic of the courthouse in Tournai that the latter were evacuated and placed temporarily in containers rented for this purpose and then moved to the annex of the former warden located in the courtyard of the latter. This annex has been made available to us by the Régie des Bâtiments, which owns it. At the end of 2005 in early 2006, the SPF Justice equipped the building with shelves to store archives, while the Régie des Bâtiments installed an anti-intrusion detection system. The building is equipped with an intrusion detection system whose alarms are transmitted to a guard company. The premises where the archives are stored are therefore secure, although it is true that the general electrical installation of the site of the ex-gendarmerie must be reviewed and secured. My services contacted the Régie des Bâtiments in order to invite it to update the electrical installation or to put other premises at our disposal to store the archives as it is not possible or conceivable that they will return to the palace. Indeed, these archives are in a large majority of the semi-static archives which must be sorted before the transfer to the State Archives.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-18-54-commissie-ic571x.u12	Minister, we agree that there is a need to invest in the Courthouse in Tournai, particularly with regard to security. You've been told a series of things about the fact that this building would be safe. I can assure you that the building may be secure, but since it is in a real cloacon, about 150-200 metres from the prison, this situation is inconceivable. The gendarmerie is collapsing as well as the figurative. There's practically nothing left. There's just a building in the back. I went there and I can assure you that from the window there is a series of documents, particularly relating to divorces. In my view, this is not worthy of the twenty-first century.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-18-54-commissie-ic571x.u13	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Stefaan Van Hecke's 15779 is converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-18-54-commissie-ic571x.u14	Minister, we have recently been able to read a number of figures in De Tijd of 10 January, not so long ago. The title of the article was "Longer people got an ankle bracelet in 2016". Those figures show that in 2016 5 600 people were placed under electronic supervision. The year before, there were 6 037. There is therefore a decline, not only in Flanders, but also in Wallonia and Brussels. The decline in Flanders by 11.5 % is remarkable compared to a decrease of 1.6 %. The decrease in 2016 is also remarkable because since 1 May 2016 the anklet can also be imposed as an autonomous penalty. This fits in with your policy to use the anklet more and more as an alternative to pre-trial detention in prison. According to the newspaper, the decrease would be due to a staff shortage at the Flemish Centre for Electronic Supervision. I already questioned you about this in September. You said that there were contacts with the Communities, that the number of slots would increase by mid-August, that more people could be placed under electronic supervision and that the waiting lists would be reduced. The figures today show that we are not there yet. Hence my questions, Minister. How do you assess this falling trend? Since you are dependent on the Communities for your criminal policy, will you sit around the table with them to turn around? How is it that the figures have fallen, even though you were able to tell us in September that the problems were almost solved? In addition to the staff shortage, are there any other reasons for this decrease? Is this staff shortage still due to the personnel problems at the former National Centre for Electronic Control? Are there staff problems with the Walloon and Brussels centres? If not, what is the reason for the decline in Wallonia and Brussels? Do you know of waiting lists that have been created for the award of an anklet? If so, what is the average waiting time at the moment? Are these waiting lists being effectively phased out, as you announced in September? Is the decreasing use of ankle bracelets not problematic for your intention, as we could read in the Justice Plan, to also use ankle bracelets in pre-trial detention? Finally, how many of the 5 600 ankle bracelets were changed in 2016 due to the execution of the sentence, the autonomous sentence or the remand? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-18-54-commissie-ic571x.u15	Mrs De Wit, as a federal minister, I have no direct responsibility for the practical implementation of electronic surveillance. The Inter-Ministerial Conference of Justice Houses does allow me to have regular contact with the relevant ministers of the Länder. From these contacts, I conclude that the temporary decrease in the connection of ankle tyres for certain forms of electronic surveillance at the end of 2015 by the Flemish Centre for Electronic Supervision was motivated by a concern to reduce the workload for the employees of the centre at that time. Meanwhile, the competent minister of the Flemish Community made progress in the expansion and further implementation of the staff framework within the Flemish Centre for Electronic Supervision. Last week new recruitment procedures were launched for administrative staff and other staff. As regards the Centre de surveillance électronique, I hear from the competent French Community Minister that recruitments were made during 2016 and that the budget was increased as part of the introduction of electronic surveillance as an autonomous penalty since 1 May 2016. La Fédération Wallonie-Bruxelles has no reduction in the number of connections in 2016 following an increase in 2015. The waiting list for convicts of up to three years, for which no date of connection could be given at the time of granting the penalty, was almost completely eliminated by the Flemish centre. There are no waiting periods for the other categories of electronic surveillance, namely the granting of electronic surveillance in the procedure of pre-trial detention or the granting of electronic supervision by the criminal enforcement courts to convicted persons with penalties of more than three years' duration. They shall be placed under electronic supervision immediately after the decision has been taken. The Minister responsible for the French Community informs me that there are no waiting lists. Half of the connections take place within eight weeks, three-quarters within eleven weeks. The Flemish Community does not experience any problems with the execution of the pre-trial detention under electronic supervision. The French Community points out that there is an increase in the number of places of pre-trial detention under electronic supervision. Questioning the Flemish Community and the French Community produces figures which I make available to you through the committee secretariat.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-18-54-commissie-ic571x.u16	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I would be very interested to have a closer look at these figures. After all, as it is now, there is a decline. I have heard you say that this has to do with the workload and the concern about it. That is, of course, the problem. It is true that additional recruitments will have to be made. However, if this workload remains high or staff cannot cope with the influx of decisions, it will have implications for the policies you intend to pursue, even if you are no longer competent for this, such as the drafting of the codes of conduct we are working on and for the way in which punishment is seen. If one then opts for more ankle straps, then one must of course be able to see that this is done. After all, you depend on it for a long time. I therefore hope that it will be resolved there. Because of the story of the state reform, which means there's a part of it here and a part of it there, you've actually been condemned to make this work. After all, we all want that punishment to be carried out correctly.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-18-54-commissie-ic571x.u17	Minister, I was recently allowed to receive your answer to a written question on the use of Quick Law in 2015. Those figures were quite interesting, but also somewhat shocking. After all, I found that the use of fast-track law in the Antwerp parquet is extremely low. In 2015, barely nine calls were made in minutes and thirteen were made in subpoenas. That's very little. It is not only less than in similar parquets, but for Antwerp it is certainly little because Antwerp was a pioneer at the time on the right to shoplifting. That low figure for Antwerp was evident to you, because the answer to my written question contained the following comment: "Asked for their response to these figures, Antwerp's public prosecutor blames the relatively low number of fast-track subpoenas for putting the fast-track procedure on hold after the judicial reform and the implementation of the new software application." In the meantime, I have to say that it would also have to do with capacity. We have had to remove the capacity for the express courts for other rooms, so in the end undercapacity also has to do with it. Mr Minister, I have the following questions. The figures for the low number of subpoenas via fast-track law at the Antwerp parquet were about 2015. Do you have an insight into the figures for 2016 and how do these figures relate? Are you feeling better in Antwerp? Are the numbers rising again? If not, why is so little rapid duty still being applied at the Antwerp parquet? I read in your reply that the procedure of rapid justice is being put on hold after the judicial reform. What's that supposed to mean? Are the arguments, such as the implementation of new software application, also cited in other parquets to indicate lower figures? It is of course not only in Antwerp, but also in others, although not all. Or was only the Antwerp parquet confronted with new software and software problems? Finally, will you take measures to eliminate the undercapacity in Antwerp, so that the pioneering role of that time can be re-established?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-18-54-commissie-ic571x.u18	As far as the relatively low number of subpoenas through the law of the court of Antwerp is concerned, I do indeed have to refer to the new software application MACH, which will replace the current application REA/TPI in the correct courts. In order to implement and standardise the rapid legal procedure in the new arrondissemental framework following the reform of the judicial landscape, it seems appropriate to await the ongoing roll-out of the new software system, especially as the rapid legal procedure is in line with the immediate friendly settlement system. For this purpose, an adjustment of the application in MACH should also be provided in the correctional courts. At present, the fight against drugs is the priority for the Antwerp District Council. Among other things, a drug follow-up room is being set up at court level. However, as a result, there is little capacity at the level of the seat to fill in a special rapid courtroom. I would also point out that in Antwerp, a mixed working group on Snelrecht-Immediately friendly settlement was installed to draw up the work processes pending an arrondissementan roll-out of the rapid law. The drawing of the work processes is a pre-condition to enter them by a computer adaptation of the MACH application. In the framework of that working group, it was decided, inter alia, that the application of the fast-track law will be limited in time and space, after prior agreement and will also be limited to a number of prior specific charges, such as violations of arms law, violence against police and resistance in order to allow uniform and as simple as possible automated handling throughout the district. The District Attorney of Antwerp assures me that it is the intention to re-introduce the fast-track law this year, given the fact that one is about to introduce the new MACH data management system in Antwerp, which is a pilot parquet for the public prosecutor. However, this roll-out is phased out in the three sections and this makes it difficult for the three sections to deal with speed limits in an immediate and uniform manner.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-18-54-commissie-ic571x.u19	Mr Minister, I would like to remind you, in particular, that we are going to have the right to a rapid return. I am particularly pleased with that. Of course, it is important that drug cases are dealt with as a priority, but it is also important to deal with other smaller cases by means of the fast-track law, so that we can give the signal that this is not possible. It's just like with children, Minister. The faster and clearer people say that something cannot be done, the greater the effect. After a week one should not get rid of the fact that one candy has been too much. This can be applied in the same way in criminal law if it is to be effective in ensuring that punishment, always a proper procedure, has the greatest possible effect. I am, of course, thinking mainly of reducing the risk of recurrence.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-18-54-commissie-ic571x.u20	Mr Minister, I have already asked a number of questions about the central reporting points for drug addicts in prisons, the CAP. As a result of the state reform, a certain supply of drug aid services has disappeared. Let me briefly outline the problem. Drug aid workers went to prison at least once a week to talk, among other things, to drug addicts, to help them find help and to get a withdrawal. This is important for the moment when they will be released. There is no discussion on the need for CAP debt instruments. During their operational period they received more than 6,000 applications. The contract with the FPS Justice expired in February 2016. The Treasury Inspectorate gave a negative opinion on the extension. You wanted to, but you couldn't. The CAP has paid its employees for the first few months, but this cannot last indefinitely. After a few months they had to stop. I've questioned you about that. You filed an appeal, but of course you couldn't give any guarantees. There was also a negative response to that appeal. You were then instructed to prepare a dossier so that a temporary extension would be possible. That would also be submitted. The DG EPI was due to submit this next day, you told me sometime in October, but you couldn't estimate the chances of success. There is, of course, also a question of competence, in particular whether the federal government or the regions are competent. In the meantime, Flanders has already entered appropriations in its 2017 budget to take over the CAP operation. For Brussels and Wallonia there would be no solution yet, which should be discussed. We've been a while now, and last week I heard a cry for help from the drug service. Whether the budget will suffice is not certain, and now it just stands still. Within the prison walls there is still nothing possible: not only the help, but even the referral is problematic. That's very unfortunate. Mr Minister, did Flanders indeed take over from 1 January the CAP operation in the Flemish prisons? Do you have a visual on the actual operation? Are there any differences with the earlier operation? Has a solution been found in Wallonia and Brussels since the transition? Have agreements been concluded with the Communities? What effect has the case file of the Procurement Service received from DG EPI, as it has apparently been declared without object in the meantime? Do you share the criticism of the Director of the Association for Alcohol and Other Drug Problems of 12 January in the press that the state reform is detrimental to the supply of drug aid? Finally, are there any recommendations from the Process and Outcome Study of Prison-based Registration Points (PROSPER)? You indicated earlier that the study on the effects and evaluation of CAP debt instruments would be included in a final report in November, but still had a short extension. If so, what are the recommendations? Could you give us the full investigation, please? If not, when can we expect the report in the end?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-18-54-commissie-ic571x.u21	Mrs De Wit, since the end of last year several meetings have taken place between the Flemish administration of Wellness, the administration of the DG EPI of the FPS Justice and the policy cells of Mr Vandeurzen and myself regarding the intended restart of the central notification points in the Flemish prisons. In the short term, the aim is to extend the scope of drug relief and addiction care for prisoners in the global context of mental health care so that more attention and assistance is given to prisoners with various mental health problems including addiction. The Flemish Department has already sent a template to the sectors related to the module for the registration and introduction of prisoners with a mental health problem to the appropriate care and assistance after detention, in order to identify the various partnerships in the context of mental health care. In the meantime, DG EPI is also examining the steps needed to support and improve the functioning of the model, for example in the field of the screening of detainees, with a view, inter alia, to prioritising applications in the light of the reclassification plan and conditional release, facilitating the visits of detainees to the central admission points and aligning the functioning of medical services in prisons. From March onwards, the aim is to give a new start on the operation of notification and guidance points in a phased way and to reach a protocol agreement in the first half of 2017 on the concrete commitments that all relevant actors take within their respective competences and in relation to each other. Consultations with the partners in Wallonia and Brussels will also be launched shortly. No concrete commitments have been made here. It is also necessary to examine which model is best workable, given the specificity of the healthcare provision in the different regions and the way in which addiction care is organised there. A pure copy-paste of the model in the Flemish prisons is therefore certainly not self-evident or easy to implement. The first talks are scheduled for the end of January and early February. It is therefore premature to comment on this at this stage. The new application for a temporary extension, submitted by DG EPI, has indeed become without subject for Flanders and was also assessed negatively by the Treasury Inspectorate, which noted both a possible lack of competence and a lack of additional resources. I cannot agree that the state reform is detrimental to the supply of drug aid and will not take a position on this further in the context of an oral question. The report has indeed been finalised, including the recommendations. The research was started and largely financed from the Department of Science Policy of Secretary of State Elke Sleurs. Justice and Public Health provided additional funding and support for the conduct of the research. Tomorrow, Thursday, there will be a study day at the FPS Public Health where the results and recommendations of the researchers will be presented and explained. The scientific researchers of Ghent University and the NICC have already offered to further support us in designing models for the central application points of the future based on their research. We will be happy to use their expertise.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-18-54-commissie-ic571x.u22	Of course, Minister, it remains a fact that aid in prisons has ceased to exist since May last year. I am glad that a solution is being worked on gradually, at least for Flanders. That's not as obvious as everything's been shut down for so long. In the meantime, many aid workers are working on other things. In the meantime, the target group was not helped any further. I am very sorry about that. I understand you can't say it's the state reform. I'll tell you then. Because of this, we now have a vacuum, an intermezzo, in which a good service was stopped. That's very unfortunate. The most important thing is that the service will be re-established and that the prisoners will be helped again. I look forward to getting the CAPs back on track as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-18-54-commissie-ic571x.u23	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Stefaan Van Hecke's 15863 is converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-18-54-commissie-ic571x.u24	Minister, I have already asked you several times about the plan to build a prison in the territory of the municipality of Vresse-sur-Semois. On a regular basis, you have referred us to the minister in charge of the Régie des Bâtiments and to the ongoing consultations with the actors of the justice system. On the occasion of the presentation of his policy brief, Minister Jambon confirmed this project, referring us to you for justification. When asked why he had this prison built in the middle of nowhere and away from everything, he replied that you had to ask the question. That's what I'm gonna do again. This confirmed choice raises a number of questions as to how the federal government takes into account issues relating to the proper use of the land available from the Régie des Bâtiments in the province of Namur, the mobility and financial difficulties associated with an isolated prison and the impact of this removal on the reintegration of potential detainees and their families, as well as on the actors of the justice system and the specific operating costs resulting therefrom. In fact, we still have to get to Sugny and leave. Land in Achêne, in Ciney commune, and especially Auvelais, in Sambreville commune, has long been used for the construction of prisons in better places. In addition, the Auvelais project seemed all the more feasible as ERDF funds had been allocated to the clean-up of the former settling basins of the Saint-Gobain plant. I would like once again to obtain your clarification as to the reasons which led to Sugny's choice, to the consideration of accessibility issues and to the level of investment to be made in the construction of this prison, in the hope of changing your mind and relying on more appropriate tools for this region that deserves economic development, especially in terms of tourism, even if it is a matter that does not fall within your competence. Minister, can you tell me what are the objective criteria that led to the selection of the site of the former NATO base in Sugny? How do you justify this choice, beyond political negotiation and the weight exerted by some to obtain it? Since the village of Sugny is far from railway and motorway communication networks, how has the issue of the accessibility of the future prison for prisoners, their families and justice actors been taken into account? What consultations have been held with the actors in the justice system? What was the conclusion? I read that many of them complain about this completely meaningless choice. Has the cost of operating the prison been estimated? Has the cost of staff travel and travel to courthouses been taken into account? How much is estimated annually? It is not just a question of building a prison, but of assessing a priori what its operation will cost.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-18-54-commissie-ic571x.u25	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Gilkinet, it is true that Masterplan III was approved on November 18, 2016. This was an important step in the implementation of many differentiated projects. One of them is the construction of a new prison in Vresse-sur-Semois. Whenever an establishment is to be built, potential sites that can be taken into consideration will be sought as a Régie or through local governments. They are examined on the basis of criteria such as size, shape, degree of inclination, etc. In view of the situation of the place, it is decided to build in Vresse-sur-Semois a prison house and not a prison, which means that the number of trips will be much smaller. Of course, when implementing the project, the necessary contacts will be made with all dismayed partners (at the request of the minister, read concerned), including transport companies. It is decided here to carry out a project which responds to the development of a differentiated regime on the high/medium/low-security axis, within which one can evolve from a strict regime to a flexible regime and within which one can gradually give more freedom to prisoners. A multifunctional courtroom will also be provided, in which the Chamber of Counsel, the Indictments Chamber and the Enforcement Court may sit. This will further reduce the number of trips. With respect to your remarks concerning Achêne, I can inform you that this trail has been abandoned. The project had been defined for young people, but following the last reform of the State, the competence was transferred to the Communities and the project has thus become obsolete. The project then provided for 120 places, the land was not suitable for the construction of a larger prison. As for Sambreville, this project was abandoned due to the high remediation costs. You are referring to the possibility of using the fund for remediation, but the remediation costs were much higher than the previously proposed amount that we were willing to cover. As far as technical studies are concerned, I invite you to address my colleague from the Ministry of Security and the Interior, who is responsible for the Régie des Bâtiments.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-18-54-commissie-ic571x.u26	Mr. Minister, you committed a lapsus by talking about the partners involved. You said "the dismayed partners" of this project. The consternation is great about a project on which you have to start consultations and carry out evaluations now, not when you have laid the foundation stone. You're a responsible manager and a sensible person, at least I believe so. In terms of budgetary impact and impact on the reintegration of prisoners, you suggest that in a prison, there is no need for visits to support morale, nor for the use of training bodies, which are closer to communication nodes and urban centres than in Vresse-sur-Sémois. You are completely wrong by blindly defending a project to install a prison that is one hour's drive from the nearest courthouse, that of Dinant, which is in the process of being closed since the judicial activities of the province of Namur will be brought together at the future courthouse of Namur. It takes an hour and a half to go and an hour and a half to return, as long as the weather conditions are favorable, from Namur to Sugny, without a fast lane, without a soft mode of communication – train or bus. That makes no sense, and it is the opinion not only of the environmentalist that I am, but also of the actors of the justice system, of associations representing prisoners, of the observatories of prison life. You are moving forward like the crazy train thrown into the fog with a project that is unanimous against him, put apart perhaps in the head of one or the other member of your majority. It's incomprehensible. I would like to ask you once again, as other colleagues have already done, to review this inadequate project from a budgetary point of view, from a human point of view, from a prison point of view! There's no other prison that's as far away as the one you're planning to build in Sugny.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-18-54-commissie-ic571x.u27	Mr President, Minister, it has been six months since then, but we remember very well the long strike in our country's French-speaking prisons, with the sad low point of the trade union protest invading your cabinet and causing considerable destruction. I asked you a question about this on 19 October. At that time, you informed us that the investigation was ongoing and that you were waiting for information on what the prosecution would do to it. You also informed us that you had been informed by the police that the file was almost complete and that the court would normally subpoena the suspects in the context of the accelerated procedure, the rapid procedure, in autumn 2016. The Belgian State would then be able to claim a civil party in order to obtain reimbursement of the damage suffered. You also stated that you had instructed your administration to contact the King's Attorney to see if the names of the identified trade unionists could be passed on without damaging the investigation. Indeed, from 1 October 2016, there is the possibility of initiating disciplinary proceedings before the criminal proceedings have been completed. In the meantime, Minister, do you know what action the prosecution will take on the destruction caused by trade unionists on 17 May? Has the investigation of the police been completed in the meantime? How many union members were subpoenaed for these facts? Has the Belgian State taken a bourgeois party in the meantime? Did your administration get the names of the identified persons from the King's Attorney? If so, how many persons are involved? How much has a disciplinary procedure already been initiated against? In the meantime, is there any knowledge as to what disciplinary sanctions have been imposed? Finally, have the announced works on the reception, in particular a secure glass reinforcement, been fully completed? If so, what is the cost? What is the total cost of the destruction?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-18-54-commissie-ic571x.u28	Mr President, Mrs De Wit, things have indeed changed since your last question. First of all, the prosecutor in Brussels granted the lawyer of my administration access to the judicial files, which show that the police investigation primarily focuses on the identification of the persons who have damaged the building in which the FPS and my cabinet are located. The images made by the media have enabled the identification of five people. There is no doubt, however, that there were more perpetrators than those five. It goes without saying that the judicial investigation in this area must continue and that the Belgian State's counsel is having critical discussions with the public prosecutor. In the meantime, my administration has opened disciplinary proceedings against the five identified persons. Those procedures are under way. The security work in the entrance hall of the FPS Justice Department is now being finalised. There are still some refreshments to be done. The safety of the staff at the reception was significantly improved by the installation of safety glass. There is no physical contact between the staff and the visitors. The costs of the works shall be borne by the Government of the Buildings.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-18-54-commissie-ic571x.u29	Minister, you did not mention the cost figures. I might get that data another way. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-18-54-commissie-ic571x.u30	Mr President, Minister, the COIV, on which I have already asked a number of questions, is often not too positive in the news. I am thinking of the new and expensive accounting system that was purchased and that had to be operational by 2015, but it still isn't. As a result, these large sums and confiscated goods are still managed in an old, somewhat amateurish way. That led to a scoop by the director of the COIV to your cabinet. You always replied to previous questions that you do not want polemics with the director, which I understand, of course. You also said that you assumed that the accounting system would still be in place. However, you also said that, should that still not be the case by January, you did not rule out the possibility of having an internal audit carried out at COIV. Such internal audit has already been announced by your predecessor. What is the state of play today regarding the introduction of the new accounting system at COIV? Is the new system finally in use? If so, since when? If not, why not? Depending on your answer to my first questions, are you planning an internal audit at COIV?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-18-54-commissie-ic571x.u31	Mr President, Mrs De Wit, on 2 January the new director of COIV took up his duties. As announced earlier in the committee, one of his assignments is indeed to start the new accounting application as soon as possible. To this end, COIV has set up an internal task force composed of the director, lawyers, accountants, ICT specialists, etc. It goes without saying that my policy cell will follow the project closely. In concrete terms, it was agreed that a weekly meeting would be planned between COIV and my policy cell in collaboration with the ICT department of the FPS Justice Department. Two meetings have already taken place, in particular on 4 and 10 January 2017. A third is scheduled this afternoon. These meetings shall examine and, if necessary, improve any technical adjustments necessary to operationalise the new system. An internal audit is not on the agenda today. However, I am in full expectation of the results that the new management of COIV will deliver.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-18-54-commissie-ic571x.u32	Minister, there is a proverb about new brooms. I think and hope that the new director can indeed continue what stopped a long time ago. After all, everything has stood still for more than a year and a half, while it turned out to be a mess at the time. Then it would be cleaned up, too. A lot of time has been wasted and I hope it will work this time. The fact that regular meetings are held on this subject seems useful to me to follow things up, to keep the new broom going well and, if necessary, to go out with it once in a while.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-18-54-commissie-ic571x.u33	Questions Nos 15935 and 15938 by Mrs Sabien Lahaye-Battheu were postponed. Debates of the European Parliament 15936 by Mrs Sabien Lahaye-Battheu is also postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-18-54-commissie-ic571x.u34	Minister, the discovery by an inmate of the Saint-Gilles prison of instructions for the manufacture of a bomb is an information revealed by Het Laatste Nieuws. What can you tell us about this discovery? Do you confirm that a police investigation has been opened? Has an internal investigation also been conducted? In addition to the discovery of instructions for the manufacture of a bomb at Saint-Gilles prison, the newspaper recounts a series of testimonies, mostly anonymous, on other incidents and developments related to radicalism in prison. The daily newspaper concludes that the number of such incidents, i.e. related to radicalism, reported to the prison administration, is on the rise. Do you share this appreciation? If so, what types of incidents are reported? At this stage, how do you assess the first steps taken to combat radicalism in prison?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-18-54-commissie-ic571x.u35	Mr Goffin, instructions for the manufacture of a bomb were found in Saint-Gilles prison. To date, we do not have any information on the identity of the author or on the dangerousness of the recipe in question, which will have to be further analysed by the National Institute of Forensics and Criminology (INCC). Nor can we argue that this incident would fit into a context of radicalization in prison. An investigation is under way and should shed light on this point. Information related to radicalism in prison is reported almost daily to the prison administration. They may be of a different nature: prayer, religious conversion in some detainees, extremist remarks about staff, glorification of attacks and caliphate, the discovery of images and photos depicting the flag of the Islamic State, gammed crosses, references to the SS, drawings of weapons or battle scenes, the discovery of USB keys containing Islamic State propaganda, gsms and smartphones keeping certain photos, etc. All this information is first transmitted by the prison to the Prison Service's Extremism Cell, which brings it to the attention of security partners for analysis. A feedback is then directed to the local directions as soon as it is available. With regard to the evaluation of my 2015 action plan against radicalisation in prisons, I am of the opinion that we must continue to follow the path in which we have embarked. This means continuing to rely on the detection of the nature and extent of the phenomenon, the development of expertise in risk assessment and the support of the detainees concerned. Various initiatives have been or are still being taken in these three areas and deserve to be consolidated rather than constantly resorting to additional and new initiatives that could jeopardize a coherent and sustainable approach.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-18-54-commissie-ic571x.u36	Minister, thank you. We are well aware of the difficulty we face.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-18-54-commissie-ic571x.u37	Minister, according to section 204 of the Judicial Code, consular magistrates are appointed for five years and their appointment may be renewed for five years after each term. It would appear that both the first appointment and the renewal of the terms of office of the consular judges are currently delayed. Financially, the impact is not very high, since they are not professionals and their payment is quite modest: 40.75 euros gross subject to taxation, for three hours of benefits, which is not excessive. What is the status of this procedure for the renewal of consular judge vacancies in commercial courts? What is the average time between the vacancy of a consular judge and the actual appointment of a consular judge? What are the reasons for the delays in appointments and the renewal of appointments?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-18-54-commissie-ic571x.u38	Mr Goffin, the most recent publication of vacant places for consular judges was carried out in the Belgian Moniteur of 22 September 2016. It covers 104 places out of a total of 1,035 places. In order to avoid duplication of applications, the vacant places of consular judges have been published in a consolidated manner. The appointment procedure of 22 September is currently under way. The time between publication and appointment is approximately 6 months. This period is stable. It is true that in the past certain extensions of the terms of office of consular judges could not be published in time in the Belgian Monitor. Unfortunately, this delay was often due to the late receipt of opinions from the judicial authorities. The circular of 17 August 2004 provides for an important advisory role for the President of the Commercial Court, the first presidents of the Court of Appeal, the King's Prosecutors and the Attorney General. Notices must be submitted four months before the expiry of the term of office. This is necessary in order to be able to submit the extension in time to the Head of State and publish it in the Belgian Monitor. The royal extension orders must be signed by a total of three ministers, namely the Minister of Justice, the Minister of Employment, the Minister of Economy and Consumers, responsible for external trade and the Minister of Middle Classes, Self-employed, SMEs, Agriculture and Social Integration. The Personnel Department monitors the renewals of the terms of office of the consular judges closely and, in case of non-receipt of opinions, always makes the necessary contacts to request them from the authorities concerned. The ePerson application is also being developed. The courts will have local access to the data of the staff database and thus will have a better monitoring system for themselves. It will also assist in the preparation of the required notices. I have, if you wish, figures that I would like to make available to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-18-54-commissie-ic571x.u39	Thanks for the numbers. I note a delay of 6 months, which is a usual delay.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-18-54-commissie-ic571x.u40	In the absence of parliamentarians and commissioners present, our committee has completed its work for today.
