ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-29-54-commissie-ic773x.u1	Minister, this is a follow-up question for my oral and written questions on the illegal recruitment of police officers by the Brussels police zones because of the lack of knowledge of the second language. In June 2017, you replied to my question on this subject: "I will convene the coordination committee for the Brussels-Capital Region to take the necessary steps to solve the problem of bilingualism." In September, your answer to my oral question was brief, but not insignificant. You said you would send a letter to the senior official on her suspension policy on the language law and the Brussels police officers. You also said you'd get me the details as soon as you got them. You also said that you had asked the Superior Constable to be informed of all appointments from 1 September and that the Coordination Committee would meet in September. In reply to a written question, you said that your office often does not receive the files of the Brussels police zones. I quote from your reply: 'I cannot deny, however, that several police areas do not or hardly follow these directives, so that my supervision in this area knows its limits'. Minister, has the coordination committee now come together? If so, what arrangements were made to solve the problem of bilingualism? How are these agreements enforceable? Has the senior official already provided you with the figures relating to the questions I asked you on 13 September and which you were going to give me as soon as you received them, but which I have not seen in the meantime? How will you force the Brussels police zones to deliver all the files, the list and the decisions they have to deliver according to the directives? Does that happen from September 1st, as you requested from the Chief Constable? If no, what else are you doing? Can you give me an overview of the number of files you sent on the subject before September, October and perhaps November 2017? How many files that weren't in line with the language law were suspended by the senior official? How many appeals were brought before you against the suspension of the senior official? How many have you destroyed after the suspension by the senior official on the grounds of non-compliance with the language law? Did you also directly destroy files, whether or not due to negligence on the part of the senior official to suspend for non-compliance with the language law? How many files are we talking about? Finally, in the figures for the decisions on the recruitment of police officers submitted to your services in 2015 and 2016, you do not mention the number of files that were not in accordance with the language law. You only mention how many of them you have destroyed, namely none, but I would have liked to know how many of them were not in conformity with the language law. I'm curious to hear your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-29-54-commissie-ic773x.u2	Mrs Pas, first of all, I have understanding, a great deal of understanding, for your impatience. I, too, believe that compliance with language laws is important. There have, of course, been a number of state reforms. The Flemings in Brussels have been given a number of guarantees to preserve and exhaust their language rights. To this end, parity was introduced in the Brussels Government. I believe that we have opposed this together. This means that the Flemish ministers in the Brussels government can ensure that language laws are complied with. That's how the division of powers works. There's nothing I can do about that either. I'm gonna fix that with you. The Brussels Government has not yet appointed its representatives to the Coordination Committee. The division of responsibilities in Brussels has been made even more complicated by the sixth state reform, as you will recall. On the lasagna a layer has been laid back. As far as security is concerned, the tasks are divided between the senior official and the prime minister. The senior official has stated that it is not she, but the Prime Minister who supervises the observance of language laws. We discussed this with the Prime Minister's cabinet and a subsequent consultation was scheduled for last week. The illness of one of the participants, the Prime Minister's adviser, did not allow this to happen. New consultations were planned on this subject. Furthermore, the chiefs of the six zones were asked to submit the files of all appointments. I have to tell you, I haven't gotten one yet. In itself, that's not abnormal. The police councils that appoint police officers meet on average six times a year. I could ask the police, but it's the police council that gets me that. Moreover, appointments are not discussed at every meeting of the police council. The fact that I have not received an appointment file after a month and a half is therefore not a cause for concern to me. I will observe a reasonable period of time and follow up on the issue, so that the reasonable time limit for getting that information is not exceeded. As far as your last question is concerned, the police did not have any figures on this because they did not take into account whether or not they had a bilingual certificate of recruitment. So I can't give you any information on that. As has already been said, we are now following up on these bilingual attestations. In the past this has been handled very patiently, but now the dots are put on the i.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-29-54-commissie-ic773x.u3	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. I am well aware that I have little patience. I can't help it. It's innate. Neither my mother nor my father has been given much patience. So I wouldn't know who I'm supposed to have that from. However, in the last ten years in this house I have had to learn to exercise patience. If you need to request files from police councils that only meet six times a year, I'm prepared to bring that patience. I'm gonna hold you to a reasonable period of time. However, if you say that the coordination committee would meet in September, but that the Brussels delegation has still not been appointed, when we are so many months later, then my patience will run out. I don't think that's a reasonable time limit anymore. Nor can I get the impression that the lack of monitoring of compliance with language legislation is more malicious than anything else. I therefore urge you to do something about this urgently with your colleagues in the Brussels Government. You urgently need to obtain the figures and take an initiative yourself by removing control powers from the supervisory authorities if it does not carry out its audit work. If it only depends on the people of Brussels, it will unfortunately go from evil to worse.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-29-54-commissie-ic773x.u4	Questions Nos 21758 and 22042 by Mr Maingain are converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-29-54-commissie-ic773x.u5	Mr President, Mr Deputy Prime Minister, according to a press article, you have taken the decision not to refund the linguistic premiums to Brussels institutions on the basis of the report of the Vice-Governor of the Brussels Region. Various information is contained in this report. I will summarize them in an attempt to respect my speaking time, as requested by the Speaker of the House. First of all, the governor complained about the lack of staff in his service. Do you intend to answer him? The report indicates that the decisions that are submitted to the Deputy Governor relate to appointments in the broad sense, i.e. admissions to the internship, final appointments, promotions, contractual commitments, etc. The statistical data to which he refers therefore relate to the number of decisions taken by the municipal administrations and the CPAS and not to the number of staff employed there. Indeed, for only one staff member, several decisions can be taken. In doing so, decisions and statistics only partially reflect the number of staff, and thus gender parity within these institutions. This point needs to be highlighted because I think the figures presented are very factual in relation to the reality of these institutions. The report also mentions that for contractors, very limited appointments to ensure continuity of service – we know that our administrations are often experiencing problems – have been provisionally accepted. This refers to 461 contractors, including 450 Francophones. Although bilingualism is important to me, it still reflects the language needs of our CPAS and Brussels communities. In concrete terms, there are more requests in French than in Dutch. In addition, in its introduction, the report states: "The appointment of statutory staff in the municipal administrations is carried out, in large part, in accordance with the coordinated language laws." Despite some reservations, the first observation in the report is still the appointment in accordance with language laws, including CPAS. Mr Minister, I therefore believe that the Brussels institutions are trying to guarantee bilingualism and are constantly making efforts. It is indispensable and we do not question this. In fact, this is not always necessary, but it is the law. Of course, I am the first to consider that a first, a second and even a third language are indispensable and a wealth. However, in interpreting the stricto sensu law, you disregarded the spirit of the law, which expressed the desire to guarantee bilingualism within services to ensure continuity of services for all users, but did not specifically require bilingualism in the head of each individual. It seems to me that it is not always necessary for administrative staff to have the perfect knowledge of both languages. Minister, to refuse to repay the language premiums on the basis of a report prepared by the Deputy Governor seems somewhat excessive. The interpretation of the figures also seems to me excessive. Indeed, these figures are not based on the reality of the field. This approach is counterproductive to the ultimate objective that each can be served in both languages.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-29-54-commissie-ic773x.u6	Mr President, it is a pity that my speaking time is limited. The previous speaker did not agree with the figures. In my interview in September, I just had a little more time to give figures that show that it is absolutely not easy; on the contrary, that it is getting worse every year. In September, I interviewed you about the Deputy Governor's annual report for 2016. In substance, you have always refused to act, to remove the power of control from the Brussels authorities, which you can legally do perfectly. At that time, as a small consolation prize, you proposed to issue an annual KB for the payment of EUR 25 million to the Brussels local and regional authorities to cover the language premiums they award to the staff who are bilingual. In this way, you want to put pressure on those institutions to better respect the language law. I dare to question whether this is the right method, because in that way you are actually punishing those who do comply with language legislation rather than punishing those who do not. Anyway, you introduced the following methodology. Firstly, you have the vice-governor prepare a report for the period from 1 May to 31 October, which states that the services requesting reimbursement of language premiums in their recruitments have only recruited staff who have a language certificate. Secondly, the Brussels-Capital Region must provide you with a list of the officials for whom it requests the payment of language premiums. You'll put that to Selor for control to see if that's true. Thirdly, the same Region must give officials who do not yet have a certificate a route and a time limit for obtaining that certificate. It is not entirely clear to me which officials we are talking about here, but only if they are met will you sign the Royal Decree for the payment of the EUR 25 million. Minister, what are the findings of the Deputy Governor in that report? Can you get me that report? What are Selor's findings regarding the lists provided by the Brussels-Capital Region? Could you also give me the report on this? What about those routes and deadlines? Which and how many officials are we talking about? I would have liked some clarification on this. What decisions do you take with regard to the Royal Decree for the year 2016? If you decide not to pay out, is this merely a provisional postponement or a definitive adjustment of the payment of this amount? Then there's another question. The Deputy Governor has long complained that he has too few staff to carry out his duties properly. I understand that after the 2016 annual report, this has already been resolved with internal shuffling, but of course he needs all of his services to carry out the tasks they already have today. This will give them an extra assignment from you. Will you also give him additional staff to carry out this new task properly?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-29-54-commissie-ic773x.u7	Colleagues, Mrs.Lalieux, I cannot escape the impression that you, or your colleagues, have read only a very partial part of the Deputy Governor's report. You argue that decisions only concern part of the staff, only the staff recruited in the past year and not the total number of staff. Of course it is. However, year after year, the Vice-Governor's report reveals – and unfortunately is a constant fact – that about a thousand designations are suspended and that these decisions to suspend the Deputy Governor are not taken into account. The result is that after four months the suspension ends and these thousand staff members are appointed, in violation of language laws. Given that the situation has been going on for years, I conclude that the Brussels administrations employ thousands of agents who do not have the required language certificate. The Government of the Brussels Region has an important responsibility in this regard. It is up to him to ensure the legality of the appointments of staff members in the communes and CPAS Brussels. You mention a staff member in the vice-governor's office. I note that, despite its small team, the service manages to inform a municipality or a CPAS a thousand times of illegal designations. Do you think that more attention would be paid to the decisions of the Deputy Governor if he had more staff? Or would you like him to have more staff from another language role? You specify that the majority of statutory appointments are in accordance with language laws. Do you really feel that this is a merit, bearing in mind that the following sentence in the report states that legal decisions, in the context of statutory appointments in 2016, were significantly lower than in 2015, and that the situation is frankly deplorable with regard to contractual designations. Indeed, only 152 of the proposed 964 contractual designations were in compliance with language laws. You indicate that in five of the nineteen communes, the Deputy Governor did not suspend any designation. That's true, but you forget to mention that four of these five communes did not submit any nomination files to the Deputy Governor. In this case, it is not difficult! You claim that Brussels institutions are constantly making significant efforts to ensure bilingualism. The Vice-Governor's report does not allow me to deduce it. Only 23.52 per cent of the decisions submitted were in accordance with language laws. The report also states that local administrations and regional public services must, in the context of designations, not only ensure the necessary bilingualism of staff, but also ensure that their staff are, in all circumstances, at the service of the population in both national languages and that their communication with the public is bilingual. In this regard, you argue that I stress the importance of perfect bilingualism for every staff member. The granting of language bonuses does not take into account the perfect bilingual ones. It is based on whether or not it has a Selor certificate which attests to the knowledge of the second language. This may be a basic or sufficient knowledge, but there is no question of being perfect bilingual. This basic or sufficient knowledge of the second language is necessary for each staff member to the extent that no one can first know whether he or she will be facing a Francophone or a Dutch-speaking person. You blame me for refusing to reimburse language bonuses for services that are in dire need of money. May I draw your attention to the fact that these services have paid linguistic bonuses to staff members who do not have a Selor certificate. However, the staff of the communes and CPAS cannot, in principle, be appointed without this certificate and a decree of the Brussels government of 29 September 2011 specifies that regional services may only pay a linguistic bonus to staff with a Selor certificate. I conclude that services that seem to need their money cruelly spend millions of euros each year in violation of the law. I can imagine that services at this point in need of money have other priorities. I will simply apply the law that the federal state can only repay the language bonuses that have been paid to officials who actually have a Selor certificate. I don't understand that this could be a problem for you. Mrs Pas, the bottom line is that many state reforms have already resulted in a relative autonomy for the Länder, including for the Brussels Region. I agree with you that the present Brussels Government, in which, as I have often said to you, Flemings and French speakers are far from being able to monitor compliance with language laws. For me, however, this is no reason to reduce the monitoring function for all regions. In my view, there is no reason to think that those who fulfil their language obligations will be punished. Many Brussels officials receive a language bonus from their municipality, their OCMW or their public administration. Some officials are entitled to that premium because they have a Selorat test. A lot of people get that premium wrongly, because they don't have a Selorat test. Allow me now to respond specifically to your questions. It was agreed that not only the municipalities and the OCMWs, but all the services asking for the reimbursement of language premia, would deliver their appointment decisions to the Vice Governor. The vice-governor states that none of these services has delivered a single appointment decision. The report on the appointments to the Brussels municipalities and OCMWs for the period from 1 May 2017 to 31 October 2017 will be attached to my reply. For the following years, a report will be prepared from 1 November to 31 October, i.e. for a full year. As you can see, the situation remains poignant. I haven't gotten Selor's report yet. From a constructive approach, I have asked the Brussels Government to present a route to lead the current officials to that Selorat test, so that we can check whether the route is being followed and also to ensure that it is being followed. I think this is a positive development, and we do not need to act in a sanctioning way. So far, the Brussels Government has not provided me with that route. The Royal Decree you are referring to pays two years later......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... If that royal decree is not issued, then it is not the individual officials but the services that are punished. The Royal Decree for the year 2016 can therefore not be drawn up until 2018. In 2017 I should prepare the royal decree for the year 2015. You also asked a question about the Deputy Governor. We can talk about staffing as much as we like, but the vice-governor and his services have carried out that additional task, which I have asked for, properly. There can be no doubt about that. They have been able to cope with this within their current task package.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-29-54-commissie-ic773x.u8	Mr President, Mr Deputy Prime Minister, it is true that I am going back to the report. I apologize, but that's what happens when you don't read the questions correctly. I would just like to repeat one thing. To work in the City of Brussels and have a lot of civil servants on duty, I can assure you that Dutch courses and training are funded by the City. We're trying to get to bilingualism. It is also necessary at some point, Minister, that there are indeed people in recruitment – we recruit every day in the City of Brussels – who are bilingual or who pass their certificates, which is not at all obvious to find on Brussels soil, in one way or the other. We must not always think that it is Francophones who do not speak Dutch. There are also Dutch speakers who do not speak French. We must therefore ensure that people leave our schools bilingual, whether they are French-speaking or Dutch-speaking. It is not easy to recruit bilingual ex officio or ex officio patent applicants. This is why flexibility is sometimes needed. I'm thinking of people who will never face the public. It seems to me that for the public, it is indispensable and it must be managed. When you are not confronted with the public, a little flexibility is essential. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-29-54-commissie-ic773x.u9	Minister, I can fully support your answer to my colleague's questions. I think she has forgotten certain figures from the file, if she says that it is not all that bad. Less than 33% of all appointments and promotions in the Brussels municipalities were carried out in accordance with the language law. The OCMW's was even more dramatic: only 11% of the files were in order in 2016. If the situation does not get worse and worse every year, then I should not have to question you every year, Minister. It is significant that you only now have to deal with this now that there is a measure to increase the pressure a little, so that this situation could finally be reversed. I wish you a great deal of patience in waiting for reports from the Brussels Government, because goodwill is clearly lacking there. You must not wait for this. I support you in this measure, but it is not going to take away the essence. I share your opinion on the state reforms, but that does not go away if the supervisory authorities do not do their job, that no other initiatives can be taken. One could, for example, extend the power of the governor so that he has not only the power of suspension but also the power of destruction. You are failing to do so, there would be much more possible than is the case today.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-29-54-commissie-ic773x.u10	Questions Nos 21821 and 21823 by Mr Terwingen are converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-29-54-commissie-ic773x.u11	Mrs Jadin being absent, you have the floor, Mr Kir.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-29-54-commissie-ic773x.u12	Mr Deputy Prime Minister, two years after the attacks in Paris, and more than a year after those in Brussels, Belgium, as well as other European countries, remain under the threat of terrorist attacks. In the press on 4 November, you said that "the terrorist threat and the weapons used during the attacks, mainly in Paris, made it clear that the police's collective weapons were not effective enough". As the president of the SLFP Police points out, the local and federal police will benefit in the future from a "new more specific calibre that can equip different types of weapons" and he adds: "These collective weapons are a plus, but the first urgency for the unions remains the modernization of the handguns that equip any policeman." Ammunition for these weapons was considered unsatisfactory and underloaded. Negotiations were held on this subject, which culminated seven months ago. The calibre of these handguns will therefore also be modified to be more adapted to the current situation on the ground. Minister, do you confirm this information in the press? If so, could you then tell us more about the situation, the measures taken at your level and the timing of the implementation of the decisions taken? Would we also be able to obtain more information on the number of weapons involved in this renewal, the police areas associated with this approach, and the estimated cost of this initiative?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-29-54-commissie-ic773x.u13	Mr Kir, on 19 January 2011, the multi-year open market for the acquisition of 9x19 mm pistols, i.e. handguns, was awarded. It will end on January 18, 2021. The acquired handguns are recent and modern. There is therefore no need to consider the modernization of handguns. Moreover, the transition to this new handgun is still under way within the federal police force. The service ammunition, the Hollow Point replaced the MEN PEP. As the old market ended, a new framework agreement was reached in 2016. It bears the reference Procurement 2016/R3/115 and was notified on 5 December 2016. It will end on 31 December 2020. The new munition is not only more efficient, but also lead-free. Currently, the federal police hold about 6,000 Uzi. As mentioned above, the new collective weapon will replace them. With regard to the Federal Police, the requirement is estimated at approximately 1,300 new collective weapons at an average cost of 3,500 euros per unit. The replacement will take place in several stages from 2019 onwards. Indeed, the award of the new contract is estimated by the end of 2018. Police areas will have access to it, but we do not currently have an assessment of their needs. In short, as always, when we launch a market, we inform the police - who can use it if they wish.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-29-54-commissie-ic773x.u14	Minister, thank you for your answer. Of course, I am encouraged that a multi-year contract is planned, so that the government will be able to invest over several years. However, I recall the concern expressed by the union - which welcomes the idea of collective armament. For him, the main urgency is the modernization of handguns. I have not been able to objectiveize the figures and identify the needs to be met. Perhaps you can send me this information in writing? I don't know what weapons should be replaced, but these police officers think they have a real problem with handguns. I don't think you're saying the same thing.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-29-54-commissie-ic773x.u15	I indicated that the market process was under way and that 1,300 handguns had yet to be replaced, as provided for in the investment programme.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-29-54-commissie-ic773x.u16	It's perfect. Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-29-54-commissie-ic773x.u17	Mr Thiébaut apologized for staying abroad. Mr. Nollet comes later, he had to receive a group first.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-29-54-commissie-ic773x.u18	Minister, once again, the press reported on the idea of merging forensic laboratories and, according to experts, this would complicate their task. Twenty-three laboratories are targeted by this project, 23 laboratories are currently active in Belgium, but in order to meet European standards for greater profitability and better tracing of genetic information, they will soon be "merged" into five entities. So you can imagine that there is a great deal of concern within the staff and about how it works. My questions are simple enough: to begin with, is there a threat to employment? Will jobs disappear as part of this merger? How do you ventilate them in different laboratories, how will they be distributed? Has social dialogue been conducted with workers and their representatives? And will reclassification measures aim to keep staff at work in these new entities? These are my different questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-29-54-commissie-ic773x.u19	Mr President, Mr Kir, the debate is not new. We have already answered several times here in committee. But repeating always makes it possible to better understand the different positions. For your first question, the Technical and Scientific Police (PTS) currently consists of a central management, the DGJ, organic table of 125 people, and 14 PTS laboratories deconcentrated in each judicial district. So I don't know where that 23 figure comes from. Today, there are 14 laboratories in the various boroughs. And there, the organic table for these 14 laboratories covers 397 people – almost 400 people. Despite the optimisation of the federal police, these 14 laboratories are still spread over 23 sites. That is probably where this number comes from, but we are talking about 14 laboratories. The current missions of the PTS laboratories are specialized police support missions to the local police, other federal police units and the judiciary. These are, on the one hand, extra-mural missions (front office): descent to the scene, photography, videography, research, surveying, taking and packaging traces and clues; and, on the other hand, intra-mural missions (back office): analysis and expertise of these traces and clues with a view to identifying the perpetrators of crimes and offences. The staff working in these PTS laboratories are mainly operational specialized staff. In response to the European requirement for accreditation of certain PTS techniques, I, together with my honourable colleague the Minister of Justice, made a decision at the end of March 2017 to accredit five laboratories. This concerns only the back office part. We had front office and back office laboratories at fourteen sites. Since accreditation is quite expensive, we have made the decision to concentrate back offices in five places - one per court of appeal jurisdiction - and to apply for accreditation for these five back offices. Therefore, the track record and the on-site investigation are not involved. With regard to the number of front offices, no decision has yet been taken. The federal police continue to work on the assumption of one front office per judicial district, i.e. fourteen in total. This is still the subject of discussions between Mr Geens and myself, but I am in favour of keeping these fourteen front offices. In order to answer your first question very concretely, since it is not a real merger but rather a change of organisation within the PTS and given that we will keep the current organic table of PTS laboratories, i.e. 397 jobs in total for all back offices and front offices, no jobs will disappear. We're not gonna cut down on the staff. At the most, to enable us to ensure the proper functioning of the back offices and the outcome of our accreditation procedure, some movement of personnel could actually take place between the 24 current sites and the five BO centres (back offices), but we will prefer to do so the voluntary movements as well as those provided for by the classical mobility within the integrated police. In this context, our goal is to devote 30% of the 397 jobs to back offices and 70% to front offices. A capacity analysis is also under way in each Court of Appeal. With regard to your second question, I would point out that no worker will be deprived of his employment. Various procedures relating to the implementation of this file are currently under discussion within the Federal Police. These will, of course, be the subject of social consultation with our trade union partners in the coming months. Finally, as already mentioned, we will operate with the current staff and the maximum capacity provided for in the organic table of the technical and scientific police, i.e. the 397 jobs. There is therefore no need to talk about reclassification measures, but about accompanying measures, as they were applied when the federal police were optimised.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-29-54-commissie-ic773x.u20	Minister, thank you for your answers. You have already taken a first decision and a principle has been approved, that is all about back office. You choose to have a back office lab by court of appeal. So it seems to be quite consistent. Applications from the five laboratories will be submitted at European level for accreditation. The movement of personnel will therefore mainly affect these five laboratories.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-29-54-commissie-ic773x.u21	Within the fourteen laboratories with front office and back office, the back office covers 30%. There are back offices in the five springs. Logically, the number of back office staff in the large towns of the appeal courts is higher than that of the other nine.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-29-54-commissie-ic773x.u22	The movement will take place at the laboratory level in small towns and will be lower than 30%. There are five labs left and there will be no movement. Finally, this may affect 15 to 20 per cent of the back office staff in total. There are fourteen laboratories, but in reality there are twenty-three sites, which means twenty-three laboratories. I guess some of them are attached to the recognized labs. I guess we're not going to suppress the other labs.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-29-54-commissie-ic773x.u23	The other nine sites are not laboratories. Rather, they are positions in which traces can be found, but no analysis is carried out.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-29-54-commissie-ic773x.u24	These are places where we don't do the same work as in the labs.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-29-54-commissie-ic773x.u25	Yes. We don't do any analyses.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-29-54-commissie-ic773x.u26	Are these positions the subject of your current reform with the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-29-54-commissie-ic773x.u27	Yes.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-29-54-commissie-ic773x.u28	So, they're going to be deleted.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-29-54-commissie-ic773x.u29	The nine positions, yes, but that doesn't have much influence.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-29-54-commissie-ic773x.u30	There are permanent workers!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-29-54-commissie-ic773x.u31	The workers stay!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-29-54-commissie-ic773x.u32	But not in these places.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-29-54-commissie-ic773x.u33	Sometimes it's a local police office. This way of working is a detail. For me, in the future, this can continue. What is important is to have these fourteen front offices and the five back offices.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-29-54-commissie-ic773x.u34	For the nine, there is a reflection but no decision in principle has yet been taken?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-29-54-commissie-ic773x.u35	It's more of a site people can leave for.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-29-54-commissie-ic773x.u36	But there was no decision.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-29-54-commissie-ic773x.u37	No.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-29-54-commissie-ic773x.u38	Thank you for the various pieces of information. We will have the opportunity to re-examine you once you have presented the project after consultation. Consultation with workers is important.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-29-54-commissie-ic773x.u39	Mrs Fonck, you have questions with Messrs. Thiebaut, Flahaux and Nollet. Mr. Nollet will only arrive in about 20 minutes. We therefore await him, with your consent. Mr Delannois, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-29-54-commissie-ic773x.u40	Minister, the SAC Act provides in section 21 that offences that may only be subject to administrative sanctions may also be found by agents of public transit companies, belonging to one of the categories determined by the King, within the scope of their powers. Furthermore, I note that this specific royal decree is not published. Minister, when will this royal decree be published? Will it allow SNCB screening and security officers to identify administrative violations?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-29-54-commissie-ic773x.u41	Mr Delannois, it is true that Article 21, paragraph 1, point 3 of the Act on communal administrative sanctions, which provides for the possibility of establishing for the employees of public transport companies, has so far not been executed by the King. In a consultation with the public transport companies which took place at the end of the previous legislature, it turned out that they themselves are not in favour of making the article in question operational. First of all, they are not asking to let their staff realize such findings since the revenue of the municipal administrative sanction will in any case benefit the municipality and not the public transport company. Moreover, this competence to ascertain is difficult in practice since the regulations in which the infringements are contained may differ from one municipality to another and public transport, by definition, moves within the territory of several communes. The assessors of the transport companies should then be aware of the regulations of all the communes crossing and they should also be able to link each of the places of infringement to the municipality concerned. In addition, some public transit companies had already enacted their own regulations, which referred to administrative or criminal penalties for conduct constituting infringements of the rules. This is still not the case for SNCB. Such specific regulations, however, best meet the specific needs of the public transport company. This is why the government is in favour of a law allowing SNCB itself to impose an administrative fine for certain offences set out in its regulations. For further questions on this subject, I invite you to address my colleague, François Bellot, who has the Mobility in his responsibilities and who will shortly introduce, on behalf of the government, a bill to this effect.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-29-54-commissie-ic773x.u42	Minister, I understand your answer, even if it does not satisfy me, on the understanding that it is not you that I am aiming at here. It is, in my view, regrettable to fall behind any revenue that the city or public transport could have. Very honestly, I think it's bullshit. At the limit, I am prepared to sign a document stating that the revenue of the City of Tournai will be paid directly to the transport company. Whatever! Indeed, in my view, the most important thing is to fight against any form of impunity. But here we really have the impression that we find any excuse for not trying to find solutions. I am thinking here of the excuse that the revenue would not be paid into the public transport fund or that the legislation would differ from one municipality to another. In my opinion, whenever you want, you can. But in this case, there is a feeling that there are more obstacles than a real political will to act. Yet that would be really interesting. In any case, as far as I'm concerned, I'm quite an applicant and no matter where the recipe goes.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-29-54-commissie-ic773x.u43	Mr Delannois, I may not have been clear enough. But you are referring to arguments put forward in the past not to act. Today, the government has decided to draft a regulation and to provide for administrative sanctions to be taken by SNCB. François Bellot is about to introduce a bill to that effect.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-29-54-commissie-ic773x.u44	Minister, I have already questioned Minister Bellot, who told me that this is not within his mandate. He wrote it black and white. I quote: "The law on communal administrative sanctions to which you refer was not dependent on my department, but on that of my colleague from the interior".
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-29-54-commissie-ic773x.u45	The communal appointment...
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-29-54-commissie-ic773x.u46	It doesn't matter if we go in the same direction! If that is the case, I am the happiest man in the world.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-29-54-commissie-ic773x.u47	Mr President, Minister, the situation of operators in the emergency call centre 101 in Hainaut is a matter of concern. The latter denounce a shortage of staff that has persisted for several years. According to them, there are currently 41.8 full-time equivalents, while the framework provides for 52. For call-takers, this situation can no longer continue because the consequences are felt internally, but also in the citizen. First, waiting times are extended. While they were supposed to be a few seconds, sometimes they reach the 4 minutes. It's calling for a center that handles emergency calls. Second, working conditions are deteriorating and have an impact on the well-being of employees. In addition, they no longer feel supported by the federal government, which does not fulfil the framework. Minister, are you aware of this understaffing situation at Centre 101 in Hainaut? Are you planning, in the short term, to fill the framework of the operators so that they can carry out their tasks under correct conditions?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-29-54-commissie-ic773x.u48	Yes, Mr. Delannois, I am well aware of the situation. That is why, in mid-2017, I released an additional EUR 1 million for the recruitment of call-takers for the 101 centres across the country. A total of 42 people will begin basic training as of January 3, 2018. It spans about three months. These individuals will integrate their 101 centre in the course of April 2018. They will be distributed according to language needs and roles among the various Information and Communication Centres (ICCs). For your information, please also know that we are replacing those who left the service in 2017. The same training will take place in January. With the exception of the Walloon Brabant CIC, other CICs are also experiencing undercapacity in call-taker personnel, to varying degrees than the Hainaut CIC. The distribution of call-takers will be made on the basis of calculations by the Directorate of Police Information and Means ICT (DRI), which is the competent department for CICs within the federal police. In addition to these additional staff, we strive to reduce the number of abusive calls and to better direct calls to the appropriate emergency service: the police, the fire department or the ambulance. I am thinking in this context of application 112. These elements must also help to reduce pressure in the centres. We act in two ways: to increase the number of staff and to use technological means to reduce the number of abusive calls and calls, which amount to almost 30% for 101 and 112. If we manage to reduce the number of these abusive calls, it will also lower the pressure for call-takers.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-29-54-commissie-ic773x.u49	Thank you, Minister. As regards the particular situation in the centre of Hainaut, the framework should therefore be completed in the coming months. If that is the case, I thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-29-54-commissie-ic773x.u50	Minister, the law stipulates that procedures must be provided for in psychosocial matters, for all companies with more than 17 employees, including a cabinet. These procedures consist of a prevention approach and the appointment of a prevention advisor. The current situation in recent weeks shows that prevention advisers are also very much needed in the workplace. In addition, I would like to remind you of the coverage of DeWereldMorgen about a year and a half ago. An article showed that a welcome worker in your cabinet was bullied by three security officers. There appeared to be no procedures and there was no prevention adviser. You were aware, but you did not intervene immediately, at least according to the article on World Tomorrow. The Federal Public Service Employment, Labour and Social Consultation apparently took the complaint seriously. I have the following questions. In the meantime, was a prevention advisor appointed? If so, since when? What other procedures and measures have been or are being taken in the context of psychosocial matters?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-29-54-commissie-ic773x.u51	I think it was rather an article from Dag Allen or from that level. On 15 July 2016, the cabinet joined the prevention service and the following cabinet members were appointed. We have a chairman of the coordination platform, Philip Cools, my cabinet secretary. The deputy is Bart Van Reeth. There is also a representative at the IDPBW, i.e. the prevention consultant. The functions there are reversed: the representative is Bart Van Reeth and the deputy Philip Cools. As regards follow-up, there is a monthly consultation with the Empreva Management Committee. There is a strict follow-up to current cases, but you can assume that I cannot name any of them.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-29-54-commissie-ic773x.u52	That's not the point. One thing I didn't get was the date. When did you appoint these people?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-29-54-commissie-ic773x.u53	In July 2016.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-29-54-commissie-ic773x.u54	Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-29-54-commissie-ic773x.u55	Mr President, Minister, I have updated my question on the basis of the information I have been able to collect since I sent it to you. My starting point was the publication by the Institut Français de Radioprotection et de Sûreté nucléaire (IRSN) on 9 November of a note entitled "Détection de ruthenium-106 en France et en Europe". Other countries have also detected the presence of this substance: Austria, Switzerland, Norway. What about Belgium? Why no spontaneous and rapid communication from the Federal Nuclear Control Agency? Has our TELERAD protection system, as in France, via its forty aerosol sampling stations by air filtration, spotted the cloud or has it completely passed by? Finally, on 21 November, AFCN reported that there had been no trace of ruthenium in Belgium. Do you confirm that? How is that possible? Will you tell us, as the French authorities did after the Chernobyl accident, that the borders were able to stop the cloud and prevent it from flying over Belgium when it was spotted everywhere else, including our French neighbours? Is the AFCN communication not in contradiction with what Belgium has communicated to the IAEA? Two months after the start of the release of this nuclear gas, do we finally know where it comes from and what is the cause of it? What is the magnitude and severity of what happened? Was there a nuclear accident? It is known that ruthenium-106 is a fission product that, once returned to soil and vegetation cover, will cause lasting contamination. Do you confirm that the most plausible discharge area is between Volga and Urals and, above all, for this area, that the amount of ruthenium-106 is estimated to be very high, i.e. between 100 and 300 terabecquerels (TBq)? This would be very serious for residents and should lead to the event being classified at level 5 of the INES scale. Do you confirm that the consequences of an accident of this magnitude in our country would have required local measures to protect the population within a radius of a few kilometres around the place of rejection and that, with regard to foodstuffs, measures would have been taken over several tens of kilometres, as the French authorities have stated? As we know, mushrooms are a particularly risky food in this type of situation. Were sample checks on mushrooms imported from the countries concerned carried out in Belgium, as they were in France? Have any substances other than fungi been tested? Has a proper test been carried out on the filters of the aircraft that flew over the area during the critical phase, as was done in the aftermath of the Chernobyl incident? Finally, what diplomatic steps has Belgium taken in connection with this incident?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-29-54-commissie-ic773x.u56	Mr. Chair, Mr.Minister, I imagine that this matter has caught your attention and that you have probably had to take stock of it on several occasions with the AFCN. I do not go back to the accident or the concentration of ruthenium-106 detected in Russia at the end of September because everyone knows the context. First of all, Mr Minister, has this irradiation been found in our country, as has been the case in France? Being cross-border, I find it hard to believe that it has been detected on one side of the border but not on the other. If this irradiation was found in Belgium, when was it found? Over what period? What is the situation today? Detection does not necessarily mean toxicity. According to scientists, given the distance between Belgium and Russia, there would be no directly known risk to human health. However, food and soil contamination is possible. It is also known that the half-life of ruthenium-106 is extremely long. Is soil contamination possible in Belgium? What analyses are planned and carried out in Belgium, given this extremely long half-life time for this isotope? Secondly, Mr.Minister, I find that this issue raises great questions about the transparency and quality of the information communicated to citizens. There is clearly a culture of silence in this part of the world. But I am concerned that in Belgium, unlike France, there was little or no communication until 20 or 21 November. We will be able to judge this on the basis of your answer. I think that this is a very long time, while the accident is at the end of September. Throughout this time, I have been " having fun" consulting AFCN's TELERAD data. I've just logged in to the site right now. It normally gives access to information from AFCN's TELERAD beacons in Belgium. This information is completely unavailable, permanently, whereas normally, the AFCN website is supposed to give, in real time, the information of these TELERAD tags. It is a matter of transparency and quality of information. It's been going on for weeks. This is not a small, ad hoc technical problem today. I've logged in regularly. It is constantly that these tags do not give the information they are supposed to provide. Finally, were Belgians present in this region, whether they were residents or travelling? If Belgians were present in the vicinity of this station in the south of Ural, in the area of the incident or in neighbouring areas, have any arrangements been made? At a minimum, has any information been provided to them? Have any medical arrangements been made? Indeed, in these regions the radioactive cloud would have been a greater risk, with greater toxicity, than in Belgium.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-29-54-commissie-ic773x.u57	Mr Nollet, you know that I usually provide detailed answers, but you have changed the content of your questions. Therefore, if my answers do not satisfy you on the grounds that they are incomplete, I invite you to re-introduce your questions which have not been answered. I must tell you that taking 20 or so questions into consideration requires a lot of effort from both my firm and the AFCN. It is certainly your right, but if you change your questions, it makes exercise more complicated. In any case, as usual, I am willing to answer you if you reintroduce them. Colleagues, on the substance of the matter now, the territory's radiological surveillance falls within the purview of the AFCN. This mission is carried out on two levels: via the TELERAD network, which measures the rate of radioactivity in the air, as well as through periodic sampling campaigns, with even lower detection levels. In this case, the TELERAD network did not detect any increase in radioactivity. In addition, as soon as AFCN was informed of the detection by some countries of traces of ruthenium-106 on their territory, it immediately had the dust samples collected in the air analysed - in addition to the work carried out by the TELERAD stations. The programme also did not detect any increase in the rate of radioactivity. Indeed, all measurements remain below the detection threshold. The AFCN would like to point out that the concentration levels found in France do not pose any risk to the health of the population, in particular workers, and to the environment. The TELERAD network is an early warning system aimed at the direct protection of the population. Because the levels of radioactivity detected are well below the thresholds guided by initiatives to directly protect the population, it is quite normal that TELERAD stations do not detect them. Given the absence of an increase in the rate of radioactivity and, consequently, the absence of a risk to the health of the population, particularly workers, and to the environment, the PSAN did not consider it necessary to communicate on this subject. However, a communication was established with the Crisis Centre, with which it was decided that no specific measures were required. It is the responsibility of the national security authority of the country concerned to monitor and provide information about that event. The AFCN cannot position itself on this issue. Considering that the content and extent of this incident are not known, it is not possible to answer your question on protective measures in the event of such an incident in Belgium. Based on the results of the measures recorded by AFCN, no specific controls have been implemented. However, as part of routine radiological surveillance of the territory, the food chain is regularly monitored. In addition, if fungi were to show abnormal levels of contamination, a European alert system is in place to report the measurements obtained. To date, no notification has been made.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-29-54-commissie-ic773x.u58	First of all, Minister, I fully understand that you do not know how to respond to the additional information. Indeed, it is mainly information that we have been able to collect since I added, not questions. I'm particularly surprised. You tell us that TELERAD has not identified anything problematic, but France, a neighbouring country, has identified a problem. I'm going further. In the IAEA information system, although in more confidential documents with more restricted access to the public, Belgium is well pointed out as having found a presence of ruthenium-106. I suppose you know that?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-29-54-commissie-ic773x.u59	Yeah, but we've done other checks in addition to TELERAD's. They gave the same results.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-29-54-commissie-ic773x.u60	In the survey found and disseminated by the IAEA, therefore, in the IAEA document, the Belgian survey is above the standard. This survey was conducted in Mol three times over three different days. I am strongly concerned about this. On the one hand, at the IAEA level, it is pointed out that in Belgium, as in other countries, a level of tracking is operated and on the other hand, TELERAD does not find anything. So, what about federal beacons? There is certainly a reflection to have on the quality of these beacons since Mol was the one who identified the problem. Information is given abroad. Abroad, we use the fact that in Belgium, we have exceeded the threshold, but you say that this is not the case! What is the credibility of our detection system? I'm talking about the TELERAD system. Either it demonstrates its inability to spot it, when other systems spot it, or it was intended, in part, to hide the elements from the IAEA by a confidential aspect, which you deny. That's what I don't understand. Anyway, in both cases, it's very serious. Moreover, on the other side of the question, it is unlikely that two months later, we still do not know what this is about. I'm worried when you say you don't know the content of the radioactive cloud. Indeed, all data are published by the IAEA. The data I was asking in the question about your assessment of the cloud problem, not on Belgium, but on the whole, exist. France also reacted on the basis of the latter. However, you say that we do not know the content of the cloud, although everything is known by the censuses carried out and published by the IAEA. I find it implausible that two months later, despite IAEA data, we still do not know where this cloud comes from. We don't know the source, which causes us enormous problems in other situations. I agree with you that there has been no direct impact on health in Belgium and we need to be very clear about this. You answered about transmission via mushrooms by telling us how the controls are carried out at European level. The dangerous aspect of this cloud was present in Russia but it could have reached our home. On the other hand, in other situations, if other clouds, even more dangerous, were to reach our borders, we might not be able to inform the public about them, more than two months later. Let me tell you how disturbing and disturbing this is!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-29-54-commissie-ic773x.u61	Minister, I have consulted modelled maps showing the entire evolution of this radionuclide. It's a matter of concern. It arrived from the north, coming from Lithuania from Russia. Germany, Belgium and northern France are clearly in areas with detection coverage. Methodological questions arise. The whole question is whether the methodology of the maps drawn up was based on sampling or, on the contrary, on simulations from the cloud. Secondly, another question of methodology arises in the case of projections made on the basis of dosages. As you know, and I remind you as a scientist, the sensitivity of beacons can be different depending on their type. This may help to understand the difference in results. I think we need to consider the type of beacons, their sensitivity and the method that would make us have different data. Secondly, I find that this dossier raises questions of transparency and quality information. At the time of the Internet, everyone realized in Belgium that the press sites of other countries provided information that their agency had made available about the presence of ruthenium-106 or not on their territory. So if you say that there was no information because there was no risk, I would like to reply that it may be useful to say that such an incident occurred in Russia and that the situation in Belgium is the following according to what the TELERAD tags indicate. Thirdly, TELERAD information is supposed to be available live on the Federal Nuclear Control Agency website. Yet, they have been absent for weeks. And fourthly, Minister, you did not reply to me about the Belgians who could have been present in the risk zone either as residents or as travellers. Can you ask me about them or should I speak to the Minister of Foreign Affairs? We need to think about these people, if any, and make arrangements, if any, for them to take the necessary health measures.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-29-54-commissie-ic773x.u62	Minister, at our meeting on October 25, you informed us of an appointment with your French counterpart. During this meeting, you would take the time to discuss many issues, including the safety of nuclear power plants, a point that you would take initiative on the agenda. I would like to know what specific topics were discussed at this meeting in connection with the nuclear issue and, above all, what conclusions are drawn from it. In particular, I would like to know what you have said about the dangerous Chooz plant, which is enclaved in Belgian territory.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-29-54-commissie-ic773x.u63	Mr Nollet, the meeting was scheduled last Friday, but it was postponed due to agenda issues on the part of my French counterpart. Another appointment will be set. At the JHA Council on 6 and 7 December, we may have an opportunity to meet. I insist on getting this appointment as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-29-54-commissie-ic773x.u64	Mr Minister, I therefore postpone my question too!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-29-54-commissie-ic773x.u65	Mr. Chairman, on August 5, 2014, unknown persons managed to commit a sabotage in the Doel 4 turbine room. The damage was so great that the reactor had to be closed for more than 4 months. It is known that Electrabel, not content with this situation, requested additional duties. We talked about this at the committee on 25 October last. I would like to know why the Federal Nuclear Control Agency (FCAC) did not itself request such duties. How can we accept that our gendarmerie is thus giving up and accepting the fact that, after more than three years, the investigation has not yet produced any results, either with regard to the perpetrators of these probably terrorist acts, or with regard to their motives?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-29-54-commissie-ic773x.u66	Mr Nollet, as regards the progress of the investigation, I refer to the Minister of Justice, who is responsible for the matter. The investigation is in the hands of the Federal Public Prosecutor's Office and the AFCN assists him as an expert. The Agency shall provide all assistance requested by the Public Prosecutor's Office. At no time did she send any message that the investigation should no longer be continued. The role of ENGIE as a civil party differs from that of AFCN. ENGIE may request further investigations from the Federal Public Prosecutor's Office. If the Public Prosecutor's Office requests the assistance of the AFCN, the latter will naturally follow up on it. In this case, as part of its mission to protect the population, the environment and workers from the dangers of ionizing radiation, the role of the AFCN is to prevent the recurrence of such an event. As I have already explained to you on a number of occasions, the Agency has of course taken measures to prevent such malicious acts. I refer you to Parliamentary Question No 21220. Under no circumstances does the AFCN give up. It assumes its role in the most appropriate way possible. It is not true that we sent messages calling for an end to the investigation – on the contrary!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-29-54-commissie-ic773x.u67	Minister, I don't think I said – but you'll read what I said again – that AFCN sent messages recommending not to continue the investigation. I'm just saying that she didn't produce any steps to commit to pursue her, unlike Electrabel. It's not the same thing!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-29-54-commissie-ic773x.u68	Mr President, Minister, at our committee on 25 October last I asked you about the serious deterioration of the concrete that had just been found in the Doel 3 bunker. This bunker houses backup systems such as emergency pumps and diesel generators. The degradation of the detected concrete calls into question the guarantee of the operation of these emergency systems, leading to a serious increase in the risk of an external accident. However, the operation of these systems must be guaranteed at all times. In response, you told me that "analyses are still under way to demonstrate whether degradation is related to aging or whether there are other parameters that play a role". I would like to know what is happening and what is happening now as a result of these studies. You also stated that "the state of the concrete will therefore be strengthened during this planned stop". I would like to know what has been done and what has been done. I would also like to know when the similar analyses to be carried out on the other six Belgian reactors are planned. Let me turn to the second question, which has been attached. Electrabel announced on 16 November that, which had been arrested since 22 September 2018, the Doel 3 reactor would not finally be restarted in mid-December, but on 15 April 2018. Minister, what's going on? Why such a sudden change in the recovery date? The rare information gathered indicates that civil engineering work is being carried out in a building with equipment essential for its operation, but does not explain the new elements that warrant a carry-over of more than five months. I expect you to be able to provide us with very precise information on what has been discovered recently and has led to such a postponement.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-29-54-commissie-ic773x.u69	Mr Nollet, your two questions concern the same dossier, which was discussed at the committee meeting on 25 October. Initial analyses have shown that continuous exposure of concrete to hot steam has caused this degradation. This is not a phenomenon related to aging but to environmental conditions that are not used for concrete. To limit the continuous exhaust in the affected spaces, the operator will requalify the vapour exhaust valves. In addition, a more resistant concrete was chosen for repairs. Before starting the reinforcement work, the operator must remove the degraded concrete layer. This work is still ongoing and will take time. The space containing the steam exhausts must be located properly. This space is located under the roof of the bunker and is difficult to reach. The introduction of robots and heavy machinery is therefore also difficult and laborious. As indicated in previous exchanges, the dates of restart announced are expressed by the operator and not by the security authority. Indeed, the Commission cannot decide on the possible date for restarting the Doel 3 reactor. The latter can only be restarted once the necessary work has been done and the concrete has been reinforced. Inspection records of units with a similar concept for the space housing the vapour exhausts were studied. The operator concluded that the condition of the concrete was still acceptable to justify an operation until the next scheduled stop. The premises will be inspected at this stop because they are not accessible during operation.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-29-54-commissie-ic773x.u70	Minister, I take note of the information you have just given. However, I am surprised that these elements that require some time – which I can perfectly understand – have only been discovered by Electrabel recently when the plant has been closed since 22 September. For me, it is again a question of market information. Indeed, since September or the beginning of October – the time to analyse the situation – Electrabel knew that it could not reopen until March or April 2018, but it gave information that a reopening was planned for November, which was obviously not possible. And, in November, it warns that this reopening is postponed to April. In doing so, other actors have been prevented from deploying their commercial, economic and alternative strategies, taking into account this enhanced intermittance of nuclear power plants. This problem goes beyond the security issue. I agree with you on this point. This is more of an economic problem, but it continues to challenge me, given the information provided and its accuracy.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-29-54-commissie-ic773x.u71	Mr President, Minister, the ASN - the French equivalent of the AFCN - has recently expressed concern about the "degraded" state of water circulation pipes of 29 of the 58 reactors in the French nuclear fleet. Cold water pumps could stop operating in the event of an earthquake or flood, says ASN in a press release. The problem was deemed to be serious enough to rank it at level 2 on the INES scale, which had not happened in the last five years. Some pipes are so rusty that the thickness of their wall has decreased and they may not resist in the event of violent events, says the ASN. At our committee on 25 October, you told me that, as part of its mission to protect the population, AFCN was following closely the development of this dossier and that an analysis of the applicability and potential implications of this incident for Belgian power stations was under way in order to find out more about the issue and whether the analysis of the situation in France highlighted new elements that have not yet been studied by us in the past. I would now like to know the first results or, if they exist, the final results of this analysis.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-29-54-commissie-ic773x.u72	Mr Nollet, as I indicated to you in our discussions on Parliamentary Question No 21423, I cannot answer you at the moment. At the end of November, or shortly, the Nuclear Safety Authority will receive input from the operator on this issue and from there it will begin its analysis. I therefore invite you to come back to me later in December, preferably at the end of the month.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-29-54-commissie-ic773x.u73	I will, Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-29-54-commissie-ic773x.u74	Minister, at our meeting on October 25, I asked you about the Japanese company Kobe Steel, which had just admitted that it had falsified the performance of products delivered to more than 200 customers for years. The company admitted that its employees had provided false quality inspection reports for products used in the automotive sector, but also in the nuclear industry. First of all, you said: "In view of the various cases of fraud or falsification revealed in recent years in the nuclear industry, the AFCN will closely monitor the development of the case". You added that AFCN could not yet confirm whether a Belgian nuclear power plant was a direct or indirect customer of Kobe Steel and that it had asked Electrabel to determine whether components supplied by Kobe Steel or manufactured from metal supplied by the same company had been installed in the nuclear power plants and, if so, to assess the impact of any falsification on the acceptability of the component. I would like to know, Minister, what response Electrabel provided with respect to each of these points and, most importantly, what analysis the PSAN has in its books. Has one of our nuclear power plants been a direct or indirect customer of Kobe Steel? What are the components that may be affected? Have you received all the guarantees that falsification does not entail any risk to our plants and, therefore, to workers and residents? Are we witnessing a second scandal, after the Creusot Forge case which is still far from having revealed its full scope?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-29-54-commissie-ic773x.u75	Mr Nollet, I am afraid I will have to answer the same question as your previous question. In other words, we have not yet received all the answers from ENGIE Electrabel. I therefore propose that you see us again in December, hoping to answer your relevant question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-29-54-commissie-ic773x.u76	Minister, I will therefore come back to question you at that time.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-29-54-commissie-ic773x.u77	Minister, following the Fukushima accident, WENRA published in 2014 an update of the reference levels for existing nuclear power plants. Belgium was to have transposed the new reference levels by 2017. I would therefore like to know where we are in the process of transposing these recommendations into Belgian law, via adaptation of the AR of 30 November 2011. In particular, I would like to know how Recommendation T.4.2 has been transposed in conjunction with Recommendation T.5.1. What transitional measures have been adopted in Belgium? Specifically, what date should each of our power plants be able to withstand a 0.1 g PGA (Peak ground acceleration) without any consequences? Have there been any exemptions? Which ones? It is also known that the AFCN had started in 2015, so without waiting for the transposition into the Belgian legal framework, of the consultations with Electrabel, so that the operator could prepare an action plan that would meet future standards. On the basis of an in-depth gap analysis, the necessary improvement measures had to be identified, and the planning for their implementation in each of our plants had to be determined. My request for this component is to know the list of the necessary improvements identified and the schedule for the implementation of these improvements in each of our plants. I would also like to know precisely what is the difference that has been identified for each of our plants in relation to the recommendation that plants be able to withstand a 0.1 g PGA without any consequences.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-29-54-commissie-ic773x.u78	Mr Nollet, first of all, I would like to make it clear that the reference levels of WENRA do not have the status of a European directive. WENRA is an association of nuclear safety regulatory agencies or bodies that develop a harmonised European approach to nuclear standards. Nevertheless, AFCN has committed itself, within WENRA, to integrating WENRA's reference levels into our regulations. This is to be considered in the context of the continuous improvement of nuclear safety. In response to your questions, I must first of all acknowledge with regret that the AFCN is lagging behind in its forecast of this commitment to meet the WENRA reference levels published in 2014. In fact, the AFCN has had to deal with more work, both on the regulatory side, where the preparation of various regulations and consultations with stakeholders has required considerable work, and on the technical side, where unplanned events have required substantial resources. The analysis to identify areas in which power plants do not meet the new requirements has continued with Electrabel but has not yet been finalized. An important first conclusion is that Electrabel may have to consider new events or combinations of events in the design. This could lead to studies and sometimes significant modifications of the facilities. It is still too early to have a complete list and an implementation schedule for future measures. This type of change would have to be considered in a global way, as is done in France, during a major carenage exercise. However, for the particular case of the earthquake, some points are sufficiently well known today. I also refer to the session of the Nuclear Safety Sub-Committee on 16 March 2016, during which AFCN gave a detailed explanation regarding the application of the WENRA reference levels on Belgian reactors. Meanwhile, shorter-term improvements were requested from the operator in mid-2016 by AFCN. There is an assessment of the margins for the systems currently considered seismic at Doel 1. The aim is a higher level; the future level should cover not only a ground acceleration associated with a 10,000-year return period but should be at least 0.1 g. Similarly, strengthening of systems to manage a cumulative earthquake at certain other events has been called for. This work will have to be carried out within the framework of the major tiling which represents the action plan for the operation of Doel 1 and 2 beyond forty years, with the ultimate deadline at the end of 2019. For the rest, I cannot answer your requests more precisely. This is an ongoing exercise following possible regulatory drafting processes, with consultation with stakeholders and setting deadlines for implementation, depending on the importance of the actions to be taken.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-29-54-commissie-ic773x.u79	Minister, our plants are therefore potentially out of date and since there is a delay in transposing the WENRA recommendations - which are not directives but are being implemented - we are no longer in compliance with these recommendations pending the analysis that is still under way. I recall that these are recommendations that were identified in 2014. Since 2014, we know we have to work on it. AFCN knows she has to work on it. Operators know they have to work there. It's the end of 2017 and we see that we won't be in time. I think this is going to be a problem for the international community. I am saying that because we know that international attention is extremely important. Belgian power plants are not in a position to know whether they are able to withstand at least the recommendations that had been determined in 2014. Why? Because the control agency, because the gendarme, because the public authority was not able to transpose in time the recommendations which, even if they are not directives, are obviously very important points that are being followed in neighbouring countries. I believe that we are at the root of a new and extremely important problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-29-54-commissie-ic773x.u80	In addition to the answer you gave me to question no. 20115, your assigned staff told me by e-mail that for building W, the work of strengthening the basement led to the strengthening of the characteristics of the basement. As a result, the seismic resistance of Building W has been improved. The situation in terms of seismic resistance is therefore better than it was before the works. I would like you to be more specific in answering the following two questions. 1. What reference earthquake (DBE) was the W building supposed to withstand before the construction? 2. Which reference earthquake (DBE) is this same building able to withstand since the construction?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-29-54-commissie-ic773x.u81	The safe shutdown earthquake for the W building in Tihange I is characterized by a maximum ground acceleration of 0.17 g. It is this reference earthquake that the building has always been expected to withstand, whether before or after construction. The soil reinforcement work under the foundation soles was precisely necessary to demonstrate that the building's stability was guaranteed in the context of such an earthquake. For Building W, work to strengthen the basement led to the strengthening of the characteristics of this basement. As a result, the seismic resistance of Building W has been improved. The situation in terms of seismic resistance is therefore better than it was before the work and is now guaranteed for this level SSE of 0.17 g.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-29-54-commissie-ic773x.u82	I will read your answer carefully, but if I understand correctly, before we reached 0.17 and then we reach 0.17. I don't see where the improvement your co-worker was talking about in the exchange I had with him.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-29-54-commissie-ic773x.u83	As a result of the degradation of the subsoil, the SSE was no longer guaranteed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-29-54-commissie-ic773x.u84	The 0.17 was no longer guaranteed?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-29-54-commissie-ic773x.u85	By the degradation of the subsoil, indeed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-29-54-commissie-ic773x.u86	And now we're just up to 0.17.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-29-54-commissie-ic773x.u87	That's right.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-29-54-commissie-ic773x.u88	Minister, our nuclear power plants are the victims of many unforeseen incidents that lead them to have to cut off their production immediately. I would like to ask you this time about what led the Tihange 3 plant to cease production on the night of Thursday 9th to Friday 10th November. What is the cause? What were the consequences? What interventions have been required in order to be able to revive production? What lessons can be learned from this event for all of our plants?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-29-54-commissie-ic773x.u89	Mr Nollet, the Tihange 3 power plant was shut down following the closure of a steam generator supply valve following an oil leak from the hydraulic valve control system. This leak is due to the degradation of a joint. The valve shutdown caused the reactor to shut down automatically. An intervention was required on the supply valve. Analysis of the incident is ongoing. It is still too early to learn from it, but I am sure you will come back to this issue at the end of December.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-29-54-commissie-ic773x.u90	That's right! But I would already like to note that every emergency stop puts the installations under severe stress. In this case, in Tihange 3, even if the defective valve is located outside the nuclear zone – sometimes it is inside – each time, it is subject to significant constraints that are unanticipated at the outset. Inevitably, this weighs on the power plant's ability to resist in the event of greater difficulties. I will come back to this at the last session in December, which has yet to be agreed with your colleague.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-29-54-commissie-ic773x.u91	Minister, our nuclear power plants are the victims of many unforeseen incidents that lead them to have to cut off their production immediately. I would like to ask you this time about what led the Doel 4 plant to cease production between the 2nd and 5th of November. Minister, what is the cause of this? What were the consequences? What interventions have been required in order to be able to revive production? What lessons can be learned from this event for all of our plants?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-29-54-commissie-ic773x.u92	Mr.Nollet, contrary to what you say, the Doel 4 plant did not cease production between the 2nd and 5th of November. The plant was subject to a reduction in load in order to perform an intervention on the tertiary circuit – that is, the circuit of the Scheldt. This action to repair a leak led to the unavailability of part of the condenser, resulting in the reduction of the maximum capacity to 850 megawatts. This partial unavailability has had no nuclear safety consequences.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-29-54-commissie-ic773x.u93	Minister, thank you. I had somewhat different figures, but it was not correct to say that all production had ceased. According to my figures, this was 800 megawatts compared to a total capacity of 1,039. I hear that this is not a nuclear-related stoppage. However, when there are judgments, even if they are partial, this remains potentially problematic.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-29-54-commissie-ic773x.u94	Minister, we know that with aging, concrete loses its seal. What standards are applicable in Belgium in terms of the sealing of nuclear power plants? Have leak tests been performed on the Doel 3 and Tihange 2 power plants? When? How have these tests been conducted (dry-dried, drowned or otherwise)? What are the results?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-29-54-commissie-ic773x.u95	As regards the sealing of the reactor buildings in Belgium, it should be noted that Belgian power plants are particularly well designed at this level. As was recalled during the stress tests, the containment of radioactive products in the event of an accident is ensured at the reactor building by a double concrete enclosure, the inner enclosure being covered with a metal envelope. Only Doel 1 and 2 have a different design: there is a double enclosure and the first enclosure is not concrete but consists of a metal sphere. Therefore, the sealing is not ensured by concrete for our power plants, but by metal. Therefore, there is no leakage due to the age of the concrete. Sealing tests are based on American practices. The acceptance criteria are derived from Annex J of 10 CFR 50, the U.S. Federal Code. The overall tests are carried out every ten years, with results meeting the criteria without problems. The test is dry-deleted. In addition, the penetration seal is tested at each revision. The latest tests were done in June 2012 for Doel 3 and June 2015 for Tihange 2.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-29-54-commissie-ic773x.u96	Minister, thank you for your answer. I'll take the time to analyze it and come back to you if necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-29-54-commissie-ic773x.u97	Minister, following the discussions held in the nuclear safety subcommittee on 26 September, and given the uncertainties and differences that remain, AFCN undertook to reopen the scientific discussion around Doel 3 and Tihange 2 with Professors Boonen and Peirs of KUL. Minister, can you list the meetings, contacts and exchanges that have taken place since then? Have teachers had access to the desired data set? Above all, are they now convinced by the arguments of AFCN and Electrabel? Do they repeat one of their previous main conclusions, namely that the amount of hydrogen present in the metal of the vats is 22 times insufficient to explain that cracks in the high-density zone of the vats were already present during their moulding and solidification? Do they recall their assertions that, based on the principles of fracture mechanics, the theory put forward by AFCN and Electrabel to explain the appearance of cracks in tanks is too limited from a scientific point of view? Does the AFCN accept the professor's worst case scenario? If not, what is his alternative worst box? Did the professors submit their study to the peer review before the end of their dialogue with AFCN and Electrabel? What are the next steps in this scientific dialogue re-launched following the meeting of the sub-committee? What time frame can be envisaged for such exchanges? What form of publication of the results of these exchanges will the AFCN guarantee?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-29-54-commissie-ic773x.u98	Mr Nollet, to contextualize the situation, know that in December 2016, the security authority received a report from Prs René Boonen and Jan Peirs. As a result, Dr.Boonen was invited by Dr.Boonen in January 2017 to listen to his position and to have a technical discussion on his criteria for the analysis of Doel 3 and Tihange 2 tanks. The safety authority disagreed with Professor Boonen's position and indicated to him, during this meeting, a series of bad assumptions that jeopardized their position. On 16 January 2017, the security authority submitted a detailed technical response to Professor Boonen. Subsequently, she concluded that none of Dr.Boonen's concerns and questions called into question his findings. The security authority informed him last March. Following the extensive media attention given to this study in early September, the safety authority acknowledged that the scientific reasoning justifying the decision not to conduct a supplementary study could be further explained. Therefore, a meeting was held on 28 September 2017 between the safety authority and Professors Boonen and Peirs to detail the scientific arguments that challenge their theory and to justify its decision not to continue discussions on their study. It was not a question of reopening a technical debate on their assumptions. Indeed, I would remind you that the study in question has already been analysed by the security authority and that it has already set out its point of view, concluding that this report does not provide any new information. Therefore, it considered that there was no need to produce further studies. None of the concerns and questions of the two professors question the findings of the safety authority. The Commission therefore informed them that, in the absence of new relevant information, the subject was closed until further notice. You are aware that the role and responsibility of the safety authority is to ensure the safety of the population, workers and the environment against the dangers of ionizing radiation, in particular by constantly assessing the safety of nuclear reactors. Therefore, the safety authority must assess the extent to which an external scientific contribution raises an issue that challenges the safety of the facilities. Its mission is not to respond in detail, on a point-by-point basis, to all the technical and scientific questions posed by the public or to reach a scientific consensus on all the subjects related to this topic, but which have no impact on nuclear safety, before it takes a decision. It is therefore with conviction that the safety authority confirms its conclusions with regard to the Doel 3 and Tihange 2 reactors, which it drew carefully, independently, after a process of analysis which lasted several years, bringing together numerous scientific studies carried out by Belgian and foreign experts. The position of the security authority has been confirmed by peers around the world. In its decision-making, it always gives a central place to its mission, namely to protect the population, workers and the environment from the dangers of radioactivity. The security authority shall continue to follow this file closely and shall not hesitate to intervene if justified. I reiterate once again my full confidence in the expertise of our safety authority. With regard to the evolution of the views and opinions of Professors Boonen and Peirs and their possible contacts and exchanges with Electrabel or SCK-CEN, I invite you to contact them to learn more about the subject. It is obvious that I cannot speak on their behalf, but only for the AFCN.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-29-54-commissie-ic773x.u99	I am angry, Minister, because what was agreed upon at the end of the nuclear safety sub-committee is that the dialogue should resume, not just the explanation by the AFCN of its position. A true scientific dialogue! What all the members of the subcommission had found was that there were points of divergence that could not be answered by the head of the AFCN. When faced with scientific uncertainty, given the magnitude of the risk involved, the scientific dialogue had to continue and it had been accepted. It is not a question of closing the debate, as AFCN seems to do, through your answer, simply explaining its position. However, it had been agreed to continue the dialogue. We are dealing with a federal agency that considers that it will not change its position and that it no longer wants to pursue the scientific discussion. That was not what had been agreed in the subcommittee. I'm not gonna let it go.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-29-54-commissie-ic773x.u100	Mr Minister, BR2 is one of the most powerful but also one of the oldest research reactors in Western Europe. It has just been the subject of an audit mission on the management of its aging. It appears that the findings of this audit are far from being all positive and that many requirements relate to non-compliance with the latest IAEA standards. Many avenues for necessary improvements have been identified. Mr. Minister, please confirm that requests to do so include enhancing the effectiveness and reduction of physical degradation, and a need to generalize the management of aging to certain areas that have been forgotten or not yet covered (radioisotope production facilities, experimental equipment, etc.).), a necessary extension of the safety-related equipment qualification programme? Furthermore, can you tell us whether the IAEA has considered it necessary, in view of all these problems raised, to plan a follow-up mission? If so, when will this mission take place?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-29-54-commissie-ic773x.u101	Mr Nollet, a team from the International Atomic Energy Agency completed a mission on 14 November to audit the ageing management of the BR2 research reactor. This mission, composed of experts in the field of nuclear safety and commissioned by AFCN, began on 7 November. The IAEA team's audit focused on the key aspects of the continued safe operation of the research reactor. This BR2 reactor is one of three research reactors at the Mol Nuclear Energy Study Centre. The BR2 operating since the early 1960s is one of the most powerful but also the oldest research reactors in Western Europe. It is used to test different fuels and materials for various types of reactors. It is also used in the framework of the European nuclear fusion programme. In addition, it plays an important role in the production of radioisotopes for medical and industrial applications, and in the production of doped silicon used in the electronics industry. The IAEA team concludes from its audit of BR2 that significant progress has been made in establishing an effective ageing management programme. It is appropriate to continue the development of this programme in order to bring it fully into line with the latest IAEA standards. The conduct of periodic safety reviews will contribute to the safety monitoring of the research reactor throughout its future operation. The IAEA team announced that the BR2 ageing management programme addresses most of the themes recommended by IAEA standards and that actions are planned to explore the identified avenues for improvement. In addition, the IAEA team has identified good practices that will be shared with the international research reactor community. These good practices include the conduct of periodic safety reviews, and the voluntary process of preparing a report on BR2 under the Convention on Nuclear Safety. The IAEA team made a series of recommendations and suggestions that could strengthen the management of BR2 ageing. These include the following recommendations. The ageing management programme should be extended to radioisotope production facilities, experimental equipment and construction structures important for safety. Secondly, the safety-related equipment qualification programme could be expanded. Thirdly, the effectiveness of programmes and procedures to monitor the trend towards ageing and the reduction of physical degradation should be regularly reviewed. Fourth, the ageing management programme should be revised to assess quality requirements and feedback. The IAEA team consisted of experts from Argentina, South Africa, Canada and IAEA itself. A follow-up mission is currently planned in 2019. The purpose of the evaluation will be to assess the actions implemented by the operator (SCK-CEN) in response to the recommendations and suggestions made by the IAEA at the end of the mission. A detailed report of the results will be published in early 2018. I would also like to stress that the organization of such an IAEA mission on the management of the ageing of research reactors is a first in the world. This mission was organized at the initiative of AFCN, which demonstrates that it is constantly seeking to improve nuclear safety through new initiatives, both power reactors and research reactors. I would like to make it clear that all the information requested can be found in the press release published on the AFCN website at the end of the audit mission in question. In the interests of transparency, the Agency often publishes news on its website. I invite you to consult him regularly to find some answers to your questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-29-54-commissie-ic773x.u102	Minister, thank you. It's good because I'm doing it that I see there's more material to dig! We talked about the radioactive cloud. This reflects the fact that some elements are not on the site. There was nothing on the subject. Following the submission of the question, probably, the Agency considered it necessary to communicate to the Belga agency, but did not publish anything on its website. As far as this question is concerned, there was information, but your answer is more complete. According to parliamentary dynamics, it is our right to ask questions and your duty to answer them, which you do without problems. But you confirm that the requests are very important and that the IAEA, even if it is a first, considered it useful to conduct a follow-up study and to plan a follow-up mission in early 2018. I will come back in February or March to see where we are on this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-29-54-commissie-ic773x.u103	Deputy Prime Minister, you recently concluded a cooperation protocol with FBI officials in Brussels. Your colleague, Minister Geens, also co-signed this document. In concrete terms, this partnership would aim to improve the exchange of information on suspects linked to terrorist cases between the Belgian and American security services. We can welcome this signature, which further strengthens the transatlantic link in the face of threats from criminal groups that spread terror in Belgium as elsewhere in the world. What exactly is the scope of the convention that has been signed? What are the parties' different commitments? What services are involved in strengthening transatlantic cooperation? What types of data will be exchanged? What are the safeguards in terms of confidentiality? Finally, are meetings between departments scheduled on a regular basis to facilitate the implementation of the cooperation protocol as signed? Thank you, Deputy Prime Minister, for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-29-54-commissie-ic773x.u104	Mr Calomne, this is an implementation agreement adopted pursuant to the Memorandum of Understanding between the Government of the Kingdom of Belgium and the Government of the United States of America for the exchange of data for the detection of terrorism of 22 March 2016. This enforcement agreement, in turn, has its legal basis in the Agreement between the Kingdom of Belgium and the United States of America on the Strengthening of Cooperation in the Prevention and Combating of Serious Crime of 20 September 2011, approved by the Belgian Parliament in the Act of 8 May 2014. The implementing agreement, which lays down certain implementing rules, is classified as "confidential" and I can therefore only tell you that the adaptation was made in order to better respond to the problem of foreign terror fighters. The services involved are the federal police on the Belgian side, and the Terrorism Screening Center, a multi-service centre run by the FBI on the American side. This centre is worth visiting: I went there and it's really impressive! The provisions on the protection of personal data provided for in the PCSC Agreement and the Memorandum of Understanding of 22 March 2013 shall apply. Both texts, as well as the implementing agreement, were submitted to the Privacy Commission, which gave a favourable opinion on the matter. It is clear that the services concerned will meet when necessary, as has already happened in the past. However, there are still no timetables or schematics for these meetings.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-29-54-commissie-ic773x.u105	Thank you, Minister, for these various elements of the response.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-29-54-commissie-ic773x.u106	Mrs. Nawal Ben Hamou is absent.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-29-54-commissie-ic773x.u107	Mr President, Mr Deputy Prime Minister, my attention has recently been drawn to the alarm of the police union representation in the press regarding the training of the police forces. One representative of SYPOL, in particular, stated that "half of the 40,000 police officers are not sufficiently trained and this is a general observation to the integrated police". At the root of this situation are shooting sessions in which officers would receive semi-filled loaders, training meetings that were cancelled on a recurring basis, or closed stands due to defects. I quote the said representative: "In times of terrorist alert, learning that such a shooting stand is unusable or that federal police officers are just entitled to ten cartridges leads to questioning about the quality of training." Clearly, this testimony calls for clarification of the situation. Could you confirm or invalidate the elements that are reported in the media and, if so, provide us with the state of the state of the training level for federal police officers? What are the main police areas affected by these difficulties? What are the reasons for this general situation? What decisions have been taken at this stage to overcome the difficulties? Finally, have you had the opportunity to meet with the police representatives to discuss the best possible follow-up to these difficulties?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-29-54-commissie-ic773x.u108	Mr Calomne, they are not representatives of the police, they are representatives of the police. There's a difference. Shooting exercises are performed in private stands or in police-owned stands. There are no numbers for the local police. Each federal police entity is responsible for the rental of the private fire pits to which it is travelling and the associated costs. The amount of the rental of the shooting stands in 2017 for the Federal Police is estimated at 200,000 euros. In the case of closed pits due to defects, shooting stands may be closed for this reason following a visit to the workplace and the finding of malfunctions in safety and/or in the event of accidents at work. Finally, the Federal Police has a Masterplan Infrastructures integrating the issue of shooting stands. It provides for a qualitative and quantitative levelling of the infrastructure at the shooting booth to cover the needs and, where appropriate, allow the availability of time zones to police areas upon request. The GPI 48 of 17 March 2006 on violence-control training and training for staff in the operational environment provides for a number of training sessions to be followed each year by staff in the operational environment. The registration of these benefits must be included in the GAloP application in order to compile statistics and identify shortcomings which would require appropriate measures to be taken for optimal follow-up. This system has been operational throughout the integrated police since the beginning of this year. The novelty of the system and the lack of hindsight explain that at present it is not yet possible to extract sufficiently representative data from it. It is therefore very difficult at the moment to give a complete overview. In some cases, sessions are cancelled. The origin of these cancellations is varied: illness or absence of the trainer, absence of staff on the day of training, operational necessity, etc. With regard to training munitions, the purpose of the training session may, to some extent, explain the fact that some shippers are not fully loaded. However, it was found that, over a period of time, the stock of training ammunition was no longer sufficient to meet needs. A consensus with the Federal Police Finance Inspector has led to an increase in the stock of training ammunition and to the correction of deficiencies. At the request of the Commissioner General, a working group comprising representatives of the various trade union organizations was set up in early 2017 to review the status of the Federal Police shooting stands. The working group is preparing proposals for measures to improve management, both at administrative and infrastructure level. Little personal remark. With regard to training and shooting skills, it is easy to assess it in terms of hours or number of munitions. But in fact, these are not relevant criteria. Some officers come to maintain their firing capabilities while they still have them. Other people, despite the anticipated hours and the number of munitions used, do not meet the standards. Therefore, speaking in number of bullets or hours seems uninteresting to me. It would be smarter to talk about abilities and skills.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-29-54-commissie-ic773x.u109	Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, thank you for the various points of clarification that have been made.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-29-54-commissie-ic773x.u110	Mr Nollet, I propose that we move on to the three questions joined by Mr Nollet. Vanden Burre, Dallemagne and Calomne.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-29-54-commissie-ic773x.u111	No problem, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-29-54-commissie-ic773x.u112	Minister, my initial question has been changed, as you have responded in part in the meantime. Following the events of 11 and 15 November, the General Inspectorate was tasked with investigating how the Brussels police responded to these spills. You reported it here last week. On Saturday, 25 November, new riots were to be deplored, on the sidelines of the protest against the slavery of African nationals in Libya. Minister, my questions are as follows. What are the specific circumstances of last Saturday's incidents? What is the current record of identifications and arrests? Is it true that a third of the breakers would come from Flanders? How can they explain their willingness to act in Brussels? Who are they? How can we explain that the capital was the victim of three riots in less than a month? You said there must be a system behind these incidents. What link do you establish between them? Have you developed a strategy with the police to deal with it and anticipate new actions? Can you tell us about the meetings you had last week with the mayor of the City of Brussels and the Brussels authorities? Several working groups have been set up. What are their respective themes? What resources have been allocated to them? Have new procedures already been introduced?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-29-54-commissie-ic773x.u113	Last week, Minister, in this committee, we had a debate about the incidents of 11 and 15 November. Last Saturday, breakers once again stormed a Brussels neighbourhood, namely the gully Louise, on the sidelines of a demonstration against slavery in Libya, which, for its part, took place peacefully in Poelaert Square. These incidents follow those of 11 November at the end of the match between Côte d'Ivoire and Morocco and 15 November at the arrival in Brussels of French youtubeur Vargass92. In the meantime, you said, this weekend I believe, I quote you: "I think there is a system behind it. It will have to be naked and dismantled." You mentioned, I quote again, "emeutoral infiltrations" in public demonstrations. "I can't imagine that all this is the result of chance," you added. The mayor of Brussels, Philippe Close, spoke of young recidivists "who were prepared". It was in all these statements that I wanted clarification. First, many reports in the press actually suggest organized gangs trying to take advantage of public demonstrations to break and sow the trouble. Having said that, do you have objective elements supporting the theory of an organized system linked to the three recent incidents? Do you have any information involving the same people, the same types of gangs? Do these people, as the mayor of Brussels notes, have a busy criminal history? Secondly, with regard specifically to the riots around last Sunday's Louise gully, had the police been warned of the possible presence of breakers in this demonstration against slavery in Libya, which was held in various European cities at the same time and which took place peacefully at Poelaert Square in Brussels? Were there any reports that breakers, possibly linked to the 11 and 15 November overflows, were in this demonstration and were likely to cause overflows? This question obviously has a bearing on the police information position that had been pointed out after the events of 11 November? Thirdly, could you please review the status of the arrests made in connection with these three incidents, as well as the number of persons released or those still in detention? Finally, this weekend, in the wake of these unfortunate events, one of our colleagues, MP Patrick Dewael, proposed the creation of a Brussels metropolitan police force, reporting directly to the Minister-President. Will this proposal be studied and implemented by the government? When I read the press, I understood that it would be studied by the government, Patrick Dewael being part of the federal majority. If that is the case, should we not wait until the detailed analysis of the police areas you have announced, which have already been discussed here and which is taking place throughout the country, in the three regions, before launching such an initiative, hot after the riots? Minister, I would like to have your feeling in this regard too.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-29-54-commissie-ic773x.u114	Mr President, Mr Deputy Prime Minister, the weeks follow and, unfortunately, they are similar. Indeed, last week we were already meeting to discuss this issue. And this weekend, a new salve of warm-ups took place in the Louise district following an authorized peaceful demonstration at Poelaert Square. This Saturday, November 25, our capital was once again the victim of acts committed by breakers. Thanks to the cold blood and professionalism of the law enforcement forces, which have been widely mobilized, the violence has caused only a limited amount of material damage to commercial signs and urban furniture. But these incidents are regrettable. A total of 16 judicial arrests and 55 administrative arrests were reported to have taken place, according to the press. When interviewed about this new event, you said: "I think there is a system behind it. It will have to be naked and dismantled." In other words, you seem to think that these riots are linked by the infiltration of a hard core of offenders who seek to undermine public safety and the common good of citizens, Brussels and others. Minister, my questions are very much in line with those of my colleagues. Do you confirm your comments in the press and, therefore, could you support the arguments for this scenario of organised crime that you mentioned? What is the record of police operations in the Louise neighbourhood, located at the border between Brussels and Ixelles? What means are currently being used to support law enforcement monitoring of social networks? We know that this is a vector that allows these gatherings and acts of violence. In the press there was mention of the purchase of a new technology, which would be available by the end of this year. Could you clarify the content of this? And more broadly, could you inform us of the approach that your services have developed to identify and deactivate the perpetrators of these spills? Thank you, Minister, for the answers you can give to these various questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-29-54-commissie-ic773x.u115	Ladies and gentlemen, I will first respond to the incidents that occurred in Brussels on 26 November. The circumstances that triggered last Saturday's incidents were created by a group of young people not linked to the demonstration against slavery in Libya. They took advantage of this gathering to create public disorder. The Brussels police had advance information on this subject and an additional capacity was therefore provided. With regard to the status of operations in the Louise district, I can provide you with the following information from the Brussels-Capital police. There were 55 administrative arrests and 16 judicial arrests, of which 5 were converted into administrative arrests, bringing the number of administrative arrests to 60. Of the remaining 11 judicial arrests, 4 persons were made available to the Public Prosecutor's Office. The civilian damage was as follows: - at the Golden Fleece: the Innovation Store; - in the Louise gully: the Damart and Caroline Biss stores; - in the roadway of Ixelles: the bank ING and the shop Léonidas; - in the street of Edinburgh: a vehicle burned down, as well as several damaged private vehicles. With regard to the damage to property on the police side, the ICK has two vehicles damaged, the Brussels police have three vehicles damaged. There are three minor injuries and one serious injury. The police called on the population to identify the perpetrators of the violence. For the events of 11 November, the Brussels police received 195 e-mails with images, photos and information. For the events of 15 November, she received 167 e-mails. On 29 November, there were 13 persons arrested and made available to the Public Prosecutor's Office for the events of 11 November. A fourteenth person has been arrested today and is likely to be made available to the prosecution. 10 people have been identified and are still to be arrested. For the facts of 15 November 2017, there were 7 persons arrested, including 4 in flagrante delicto, who were made available to the prosecution. 6 people have been identified and are still to be arrested. It is still too early to explain this willingness to act on Brussels and to establish a link between these three incidents in less than a month. As things stand, I can only tell you that only one person is involved in two incidents and that she has been arrested twice. Moreover, among those involved, it has been found that a number of them are multi-recidivists. It should also be noted that 7 people come from Flanders. Mr Vanden Burre, I did not say that I was sure there was a connection between these incidents. I have simply hypothesized that, in cases of more or less comparable incidents, it is necessary to investigate whether there are links between them. The investigation may prove that there is no connection. As far as I am concerned, I hope there is a link, because that would be easier to resolve. Indeed, if a network can be detected, it is easier to carry out checks and arrests than if we are dealing with different spontaneous initiatives at each demonstration in Brussels. Today, I do not have any specific information on this subject. As regards the development of a strategy to anticipate and deal with new acts, I should like to inform you that a first meeting was actually held on Thursday 23 November in my office, in the presence of the mayor and the chief of police in Brussels. This included the development of a police plan for the management of unexpected events, particularly in the event of riots. In my view, central cities urgently need to consult and discuss how best practices can be exchanged and disseminated. I can already point out to you that the Brussels police system has been strengthened with the support of the Federal Police (CIK, Rago helicopter and sprinkler). It should also be noted that the Brussels-Capital Region has acquired an OSINT system for the PJF Brussels for the benefit of all police services in the Region. I draw attention here to the fact that this tool is a priori part of the monitoring of terrorism and radicalism. In other words, the decision was made to install this OSINT system in collaboration with the State Security, the Judicial Police and the Intelligence Service within the Defence. We decided to extend this system to the administrative police so that they could use this tool to scan social networks. The goal is to find messages related to crime, terrorism and incidents that we have experienced. You are asking me if Mr Dewael's proposal to create a Brussels metropolitan police force will be examined. I already answered that last week. The current study does not put forward any hypothesis. The dialogue with the mayors and the chiefs of bodies should make it possible to see what the ideal size will be. Specialists will be able to intervene in this consultation to see what would be the benefits of expanding existing areas. Mr Dewael's proposal implies a reform of the State because the special law on competences must be reviewed and the government will not embark on this adventure. This assumption, however, seems interesting to me, but it cannot be achieved without a two-thirds majority. Again, it is clear that there is no point in imposing structures from above. This applies not only to Brussels, but also to the Walloon and Flemish municipalities. It is therefore not, in my view, the solution to unilaterally imposing a merger of areas via the federal level. This requires the support of all responsible parties, both at local and regional level.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-29-54-commissie-ic773x.u116	Minister, thank you for your answer. You stressed that today there is a structure of collaboration, discussion and dialogue, to use your words. I welcome the climate that exists today. It took a little time, that is, 12 days, before you could meet the mayor of Brussels. The current climate is a climate of cooperation. It is important to leave certain postures to see what would be the best strategies, resources and ways to ensure the safety of Brussels and other major cities. We are struck by the succession of these serious incidents. There was supposed to be a demonstration today. I haven't heard from this one. I don't know if it happened.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-29-54-commissie-ic773x.u117	The event is postponed until Saturday. They have followed the necessary administrative procedures. The City of Brussels must take a decision on this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-29-54-commissie-ic773x.u118	All right. In conclusion, I think that we must put on the table all the proposals and suggestions of each other. I note, however, that the figures recently published in the press show that Brussels is not doing so badly in terms of security. The numbers of security incidents have declined considerably in recent years. We must be able to greet him, too.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-29-54-commissie-ic773x.u119	Minister, thank you for your answers. You specify that it is too early to draw conclusions and link the different facts, even if the same person was arrested at two events. I wanted to see if you could go any further than what I read in the press, namely, that you were hoping there was a network so we could dismantle it. We cannot be against this assumption. We'll see what the investigation will do. As you said, it is important to note that the group of young people, last Saturday, was in no way linked to the demonstration against slavery. It is essential to objectify the facts in order not to make statements at the coin-cutter, wherever they come from. Indeed, some feel a desire to take advantage of these events to highlight conclusions that seem hasty or even unacceptable to us. It is important to return to the facts and to dissociate organized demonstrations and breakers. If there is a network, it would clearly show that, behind these attempts, the same people or organizations are found each time. With regard to the police areas, I had in mind what you explained to us during the discussion of the policy note on the study that is under way. It is important to objectify it, to carry out this study on the whole country, with experts in this field, on rational and not emotional bases. The debate today is very emotional, we saw it again last Wednesday. As Brussels, I am obviously particularly attentive to this. That is why I was surprised at Mr Dewael's release, not that we are not seeking to discuss the subject constructively and without taboos, but I think that, as a study is under way, we should not short-circuit it with pluck-up proposals. Finally, I would like to point out that there are also incidents and spillovers in other cities in Belgium. Don't think I'm happy about it, on the contrary, but it's important to say that it's not just a Brussels problem; it's found in big cities. We saw him again, unfortunately, either in Antwerp or in Ghent. I think it is also important to be able to point this out and to see that this is a problem that needs to be solved in a global way. It is not a question of taking advantage of this opportunity to point Brussels and its people at these unfortunate events. I'm not saying you just did it, but some are tempted. This is also happening elsewhere, and we can regret it. It is important to collaborate between large cities and I note that this is what you have included in your answer. I believe that it is also important to see that this goes beyond the structure or the specific Brussels situation and this is a problem which obviously needs to be dealt with in a comprehensive way.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-29-54-commissie-ic773x.u120	Deputy Prime Minister, thank you for all the answers you have given us. I think that there is still a concern among the population, and in particular in Brussels, about this repeated violence, since we are already in the third incident in the space of a few days, with authors who actually take advantage of events of a claim or even festive nature to break, damage and fire both public and private property. Of course, I am thinking of the wounded, the victims affected in these events, as well as the law enforcement forces that are deployed and mobilized by having to supervise and accompany these events and the subsequent arrests, among others. They cannot focus on other missions. I am also thinking of the concern that traders can feel, as Christmas and the end of the year approaches - a very important time for them. We know that Brussels has experienced difficulties in recent months, in recent years, and there is also a layer of additional difficulties: in addition to the material damage they have to undergo, they are worried - I know what I am talking about, since some of the traders affected on Saturday are ixellois - and they fear less participation at the end of the year for fear of further manifestations of violence. So there is concern in the head of the merchants: can we still welcome so many people on the occasion of the holidays, are people going to travel knowing that there can be incidents and acts of violence? I think it's important to hear from you about this. Perhaps you have a reassuring message to deliver them.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-29-54-commissie-ic773x.u121	Mr. Eric Thiébaut is currently abroad.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-29-54-commissie-ic773x.u122	Mr. Chair, Minister, the government adopted the new nuclear emergency plan at first reading. The text is sent to the Council of State. Minister, can you tell us what this plan includes for the distribution of iodine tablets? Did the government approve the proposal you made to us a few weeks ago, in response to my previous question? As far as areas more than 20 km from the power stations are concerned, the press speaks of a distribution limited to three categories of the population: pregnant women, nursing women and under-age children. It seemed to me that you had made a commitment that, beyond these target audiences, anyone who wished to come to the pharmacy for free, would be able to pick up such tablets, provided that they did so. You told me that a campaign would be launched in February or March 2018. Minister, can you confirm these elements? Will a 20-year-old man living 30 km from Tihange be able to obtain tablets free of charge? Will a 66-year-old grandmother, who occasionally welcomes her grandchildren and lives 90 km from Doel, also be able to obtain tablets free of charge?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-29-54-commissie-ic773x.u123	Mr Nollet, the National Nuclear Emergency Plan is currently before the Council of State for its opinion. If there are no substantial comments, the Council of Ministers should approve it at the beginning of next year. At the same time, the Internal and Public Health FPS have ordered stable iodine tablets from a company in accordance with the applicable public procurement rules. A first delivery should arrive at the beginning of the year. After the publication of the Royal Decree approving the new Plan in the Belgian Monitor, and after having been able to supply the pharmaceutical circuit with stable iodine tablets, a public information campaign on nuclear risk will be organised in the first quarter of 2018 in order to make everyone aware of the right behaviors to adopt in the event of a nuclear incident – in the first place, the shelter. With regard to the campaign for the distribution of iodine tablets, the system in place since 2002 is maintained in the 20 km zone around nuclear power plants. In the 20 km and 10 km emergency planning area for IRE, stable iodine tablets will be made available free of charge to the population and communities via pharmacies. The priority groups in this area are, at first instance, children, pregnant and breastfeeding women and adults up to the age of 40. In case of very extreme doses, it may be useful for people over 40 years of age to take tablets, but prior medical advice is advised given the possible disadvantages associated with taking them. Pharmacies always have a minimum stock of tablets. As part of the 2018 campaign, it has been planned to continue on this basis. The strategy therefore does not change in the 20 km area. In the 100 km extension area (all of Belgium), stable iodine tablets will be made available free of charge in all pharmacies in the country, in order to make it possible, especially for the most sensitive groups (the groups already mentioned, plus the communities hosting children such as schools and nurseries) to obtain them. Communities will be actively encouraged to pick up the tablets at the pharmacy. No one will be excluded. Indeed, anyone who wants to go for tablets can do so, but with the exception of sensitive groups, it is not actively encouraged. However, a 20-year-old man living 30 km from Tihange or a 66-year-old grandmother living 99 km from Doel will of course both be able to obtain stable iodine tablets free of charge from their pharmacy, as part of a personal emergency preparedness process, just as they will be able to learn about their risks via www.info-risks.be, register at www.be-alert.be or carry out their family emergency plan via www.monplandemergency.be. Centralized and decentralized stocks remain operational for tablet distribution at the time of the actual incident. Secondly, it goes without saying that the distribution of iodine tablets must go hand in hand with nuanced information from the authorities and pharmacists on the usefulness of this measure, taking into account other protective measures for the population, such as the shelter which is always considered the most important, the difference in risks depending on the proximity or distance of a plant and the persons most concerned, taking into account the above points. In general, radiological risks in the event of an emergency decrease at the same time as the distance from the source of the risk. The need to protect the thyroid gland from taking radioactive iodine with stable iodine tablets decreases with age. These different considerations form the basis of the above-mentioned strategy, which constitutes a justified approach on the distinction of approaches between the 20 km zone and the 20-100 km zone, which was the subject of an in-depth discussion with the representative of the Higher Health Council. The nuanced information discussed will be reviewed with first aid workers, pharmacists and physicians and with the authorities responsible for the communities in the sensitive group.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-29-54-commissie-ic773x.u124	Minister, I thank you for your answer, since it is very clear, very precise and sheds light on all my questions. On the substance, for the most part, she satisfies me. Moreover, you have even gone further than I asked, since you have referred to the city of Antoing, located 99 km away, and which is the most eccentric place of all the circles that can be traced around Belgian power stations or even at the borders. So, the whole territory will be covered. In addition, you have usefully distinguished those who will be encouraged from those who will not, but who will be able to come and get the iodine tablets free of charge. Things are very clear, and I thank you for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-29-54-commissie-ic773x.u125	Debates of the European Parliament 22039, Question No 22040 and Question No 22050 by Mrs Ben Hamou were postponed. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Blanchart's 22044 is considered to be withdrawn, since he has not informed and has not asked for them to be converted or postponed, in application of Rule 127.10 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-29-54-commissie-ic773x.u126	A few days ago, the Swiss nuclear power plant in Leibstadt informed its Federal Nuclear Safety Inspection (IFSN) that certain fuel assemblies issued by AREVA did not meet the defined requirements. These errors relate to quality assurance and occurred with the manufacturer of the fuel assemblies concerned. This situation seems to have remained hidden for a very long time. By presenting a damage to their sheath, the assemblies become a danger as they increase the activity recorded in the cooling water. In total, no less than 22 fuel assemblies at the Leibstadt nuclear power plant are affected. Given the risk, the plant decided to replace these fuel assemblies. The producer reported that several other nuclear power plants had been supplied in defective assemblies but refused to list them. What about our power plants? Have they reported such a problem to AFCN? If so, what follow-up has been given to this report? Do you have a guarantee that no defective assembly is found in our power plants? It is, of course, the manufacturer of fuel assemblies who is responsible for quality assurance. It must work in accordance with a management system certified in accordance with ISO 9001 and comply with other standards and regulations in force. What is the verification system in force in Belgium in this respect? Is the operator able to identify such defects? Does the PSAN plan to conduct a systematic inspection of fuel bar ducts used in our power plants?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-29-54-commissie-ic773x.u127	Mr Nollet, in response to your question about the presence of non-compliant AREVA fuel elements in Belgian power plants, I can confirm that we are not concerned with this problem, since the operator has been informed directly by AREVA on this matter. Fuel management is a matter of great attention. Regulatoryly, ENGIE-Electrabel is required to have a management system including quality assurance of elements important to safety. This applies in particular to the different fuels used in power plants. Depending on the origin of the fuel (Westinghouse, AREVA), it will be based on various American or French standards. It would be very tedious and too technical to go into the details of the controls put in place for the manufacture and installation of combustible elements in the core. I can mention, for example, radiographic checks of welds, leakproofness tests of combustible pencils using mass spectroscopy. I would also like to add that, in addition to these controls, the activity of the primary circuit is closely monitored, with strict requirements. This monitoring is used to detect the presence of combustible elements that would have serious leaks and to take appropriate action. As for the safety authority, AFCN's technical support carries out thematic controls on the various aspects related to fuel. I hope that these elements reassure you and respond to your concerns.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-29-54-commissie-ic773x.u128	Mr Minister, I am indeed reassured that our power stations are not concerned with this problem. There are enough more, which I asked you about earlier. I note, however, that elsewhere in Switzerland they are concerned; and in the Netherlands they were wondering. That's what initiated my own approach.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-29-54-commissie-ic773x.u129	Mr Nollet, I think we come to your last question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-29-54-commissie-ic773x.u130	For today, Mr. President!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-29-54-commissie-ic773x.u131	Minister, the ONDRAF Board of Directors has just given itself a new Chair, who is none other than the current Commissioner of Government to the AFCN and, in addition, an advisor to your cabinet. Is there not a first concern in the simultaneous exercise of the functions of President of ONDRAF and Commissioner of the Government to AFCN, who is responsible in particular for monitoring ONDRAF? Of course, this combination is temporary, since a resignation has been announced, but should we not do things in order and wait for a replacement in the office of Commissioner before appointing the new Chair of the Board? More fundamentally, is there not an even more serious problem, since the Chairman of the Board of Directors of ONDRAF is an advisor to the Minister in charge of nuclear safety and security? Is this not a clear conflict of interest? In this way, is this person not both a judge of the security missions and a party, as president of one of the most important actors – which must be controlled by the AFCN – that is in this way within your own competence?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-29-54-commissie-ic773x.u132	Mr. Nollet, this Monday, November 20 - the day of the publication of the Royal Decree on the resignation and appointment of the President and Vice-Chairman of the Board of Directors of ONDRAF - the Government Commissioner to AFCN gave me his letter of resignation. He forwarded a copy that same day to the Director General and to the Chairperson of the Board of Directors of the AFCN. With regard to the justification for this resignation, I will quote from the letter in question: "I am convinced that this new position is not compatible with that of Commissioner of the Government to the AFCN. That is why I am informing you of my decision to hand over my resignation as Commissioner of Government to the AFCN, with immediate effect." In summary, the person concerned shares your concern, Mr. Nollet, and has acted accordingly. As a result, she will no longer attend meetings of the AFCN Board of Directors. I will, as soon as possible, make a royal order to appoint a new commissioner of the government. In the meantime, if necessary, I can appoint a replacement on the basis of Article 9 § 5 of the Law of 16 March 1954 on the supervision of certain bodies of public interest. As you know, the safety and security of the nuclear sector is a point that I closely monitor. In my office, a nuclear security adviser is responsible for these aspects of security and safety. This is a person other than the person to which you refer in this question. You know him, it's Joris, who often accompanies me here. The person you are talking about is therefore not in the position of judge and party.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-29-54-commissie-ic773x.u133	With respect to the first part, Mr.Minister, I indicated in my question that he had resigned. But I hear in your answer that it has not yet been replaced. You say that in his letter of resignation, he indicated that it had an immediate effect. But the effect is not immediate. This issue was addressed at the turn of another issue at ONDRAF, where administrators considered that they had resigned. But the resignation is not considered effective until the person has been replaced. This is the cross-cutting public service rule and, by extension, within these boards of directors. Of course, he has resigned – an administrator can, as a commissioner of the government – but until he has been replaced, he remains in office; he still has a responsibility. You'll tell me this is a temporary situation. All right. But there is, on this point, a concern that I wanted to raise.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-29-54-commissie-ic773x.u134	Debates of the European Parliament 22101 by Mrs Gabriels was postponed. Questions Nos 22111, 22112 and 22114 by Mr Flahaux are converted into written questions. Questions Nos 22144, 22145, 22146 and 22147 by Mrs Ben Hamou have been postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-29-54-commissie-ic773x.u135	According to the press, an envelope containing suspicious powder arrived at the National Bank of Belgium, boulevard de Berlaimont in Brussels. Relief, civil protection, police and the Explosive Devices Removal and Destruction Service (EDEDS) came to the scene and the suspicious envelope was taken away for analysis. Minister, do you have more information about this incident? If so, can you provide us with more details on the conclusions of the analysis, the possible identification of the authors, the duration of the intervention, its consequences on the work, the staff, the clientele, as well as an estimate of its financial cost, including the loss of income for the National Bank?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-29-54-commissie-ic773x.u136	Mr. Kir, I can confirm the information in the press. Pending the arrival of the Civil Protection and Explosives Removal and Destruction Service, the police have established a security perimeter. The investigation is still under way, so I cannot reveal the details. With regard to the financial impact of this incident on the National Bank and its clients, it does not fall within the competence of the police services. I therefore invite you to question the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-29-54-commissie-ic773x.u137	Minister, thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-29-54-commissie-ic773x.u138	Minister, in the press there is an echo of the acquisition by the federal police of 121 new cars and motorcycles for a total investment of almost 6 million euros. It's good news, we know how much they expect this kind of equipment. We're talking about Audi and Volvo vehicles. Indeed, according to your words in the Gazet van Antwerpen, "this is a consistent order, as it has not been for a long time. Nonante-six vehicles have already been ordered and another 25 will follow within two weeks. These should include 37 Volvos and 27 Audis." Minister, how many cars and motorcycles in total do the federal highway police have? What is the final cost of these acquisitions? What will be the implications for our daily security?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-29-54-commissie-ic773x.u139	Mr Kir, there are currently 462 vehicles in the Federal Road Police cart, including 178 motorcycles and 284 cars. This year, 96 new vehicles have already been ordered and in the following weeks, 25 additional vehicles will be ordered. This means 121 new vehicles for the Federal Road Police, for a total amount of €5.8 million – 54 motorcycles and 67 cars, including 39 cars with a signboard. This order for vehicles concerns replacement vehicles and, in limited numbers, additional vehicles. It is therefore a considerable investment, on the one hand, because it is a major replacement movement for the federal road police, a catch-up that will erase part of the delay in this replacement in previous years. And, on the other hand, because this replacement contributes to the well-being of staff and to better performance on the ground in terms of road safety. Some vehicles had 300,000 kilometres on the meter. The vehicles will be available to fulfil the regular tasks of the road police in the field of road safety: checks on motorways, participation in very specific prevention and road control actions. I launched this morning the new "Bob" campaign for the end of the year. The Federal Highway Police participate very actively. As I said this morning, the action for the police in this campaign is not to stay more than forty minutes on site and to be able to be very mobile and flexible in order to ensure controls in different places. As you know, on social media, we immediately communicate the controls on the scene. It is therefore very important for the federal road police, and also for other police services, to have efficient cars.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-29-54-commissie-ic773x.u140	Minister, thank you for this information. You yourself say that a huge delay was made before these investments were made. That's unfortunate. The police must be properly and fully equipped to carry out their security missions for the benefit of our fellow citizens. I note that the 121 new vehicles represent a little more than a quarter of the existing cart. It's not nothing. It's a huge investment. However, in my experience as the responsible minister of Brussels-Property, I know that the rule is always to provide for 10% renewal of rolling stock and carts every year. I see you're catching up a considerable delay with an investment of about a quarter. It would be interesting, in the multi-year investment plans for equipment renewal, to make a regular effort to avoid this situation, which you described, in which we find ourselves with vehicles that have 300,000 kilometers on the counter, which is quite important. I hope you will remember these remarks.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-29-54-commissie-ic773x.u141	Mr Kir, the aim is to have a programmed replacement system. Today, this is an investment. This will then be part of the budget.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-29-54-commissie-ic773x.u142	Minister, I am curious to see if the 10% rule will be retained because, in general, it is said that the lifespan of a vehicle...
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-29-54-commissie-ic773x.u143	Quite honestly, I have to inquire because police vehicles are certainly suffering more than other vehicles. Depending on the function of the cars, it will be necessary to determine how long they will have to be replaced.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-29-54-commissie-ic773x.u144	Minister, this will be an opportunity to ask you again about the formula you will retain for the replacement of rolling stock.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-29-54-commissie-ic773x.u145	It does seem to me to make sense to have a system that allows for the replacement of part of the park every year.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-29-54-commissie-ic773x.u146	Mr Kir, is your question No 22154 withdrawn or deleted?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-29-54-commissie-ic773x.u147	Mr President, the Prime Minister does not want Mr Jambon to respond. I will therefore address the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-29-54-commissie-ic773x.u148	Minister, last week, like other mayors, I received a letter indicating that the electronic siren network will be phased out. Instead, BE-Alert will be used more often as an alarm platform. Since June 2017, governments connected to BE-Alert can send written and recorded messages to the public. This happens, for example, in the event of a flood or an industrial accident. Currently, the Crisis Centre also works with the electronic siren network at Seveso companies and nuclear sites. The network has 570 sirens today. The sirens will not be repaired and will be phased out. Since its launch five months ago, about 239 000 citizens have signed up to receive a message from the government via BE-Alert. Sensitisation campaigns should further increase their use. Firstly, with BE-Alert, you wish to alert citizens via a telephone call, SMS or social media. Slightly more than 2% of the population has now given their address. Is it appropriate to cut off the electronic siren network today? Secondly, what alarm do you provide for people who do not have a smartphone or mobile phone? Thirdly, alarming by telephone means that people must always have their mobile phones on them and that they are always charged. How realistic is that? Fourthly, what awareness do you provide? The letter leaves the impression that responsibility for sensitisation lies with the mayors and local authorities.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-29-54-commissie-ic773x.u149	Mr Top, alerting the public in the event of an emergency is, of course, of paramount importance. It is therefore essential to have a range of effective alarm systems. With BE-Alert, Belgium has a modern alarm system since June 2017. BE-Alert has been successfully deployed six times during a real incident. With the current siren network, it is only possible to communicate a crying tone and a limited number of messages in a limited zone. We can therefore say that the sirens are an outdated technology, for which there are today more performant alternatives. Given the employability of BE-Alert across the country and the ability to communicate various messages clearly, a performance alarm system will continue to be invested in the coming years. This also means that the Crisis Centre, together with all its partners, will permanently sensitise citizens to register with BE-Alert. With BE-Alert, however, it is also possible to send a text message to the citizens who are physically present in the vicinity of an emergency situation, even though they are not registered with BE-Alert. If we compare that with a siren, then a siren is audible even in a certain circle. With the system, people get text messages, whether they're registered or not. We've already used that technology in Virton and in Vorst. In addition to BE-Alert, other channels can be used to alert citizens quickly and efficiently, e.g. emergency radio stations. There are agreements with the media to quickly distribute alarm messages. Social media and websites can also be used. As part of the risk information campaign, the Crisis Centre informs citizens about the right reflexes in the event of an emergency. One aspect of the campaign concerns the knowledge of the various alert channels. BE-Alert is an alarm system that can alert the population via various channels. No specific smartphone is required for notification via a spoken message or a text message. A regular cell phone is also suitable for that. Spoken messages can also be received via a regular telephone, i.e. landlines and mobile phones. Each mobile device can receive the BE-Alert SMS messages without further configuration and without specific settings on the device. A smartphone is absolutely no need to be notified via BE-Alert. Thirdly, BE-Alert is one of the possible alert channels that can be used to alert the population. Other channels can also be used according to the circumstances: emergency service broadcasting facilities, agreements with the media and the use of social media. In recent months, there has been an extensive campaign calling on citizens to register with BE-Alert. The campaign included radio spots, street posters, media reports, social media ads, web banning and the presence with a virtual reality game at various summer events. After the campaign, the Crisis Centre, together with all its partners, continues to sensitise citizens to register with BE-Alert. As local actions are often very effective, the Crisis Centre supports local authorities, including by providing promotional material. Each activation is used to bring BE-Alert to the attention and call on people to register. This will also be done in the monthly tests of BE-Alert, which are scheduled to take place from January 2018. In the context of a well-considered risk communication policy, the Crisis Centre informs people with various communication actions about the right reflexes in an emergency situation. A very important point of attention here is the knowledge of the various alert channels. In doing so, we sensitize the population to register on BE-Alert. I will, of course, continue to follow that. After all, I agree with you that the number of persons registered on the system is still too low. We have just begun; the number must rise to millions. That effort will therefore have to be sustained for a while. The sirens won't disappear from today to tomorrow either. Call it an action of communicating vessels.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-29-54-commissie-ic773x.u150	Minister, I agree with you that BE-Alert can do more and offers much more technological opportunities. But I don't agree with you that one thing is replacing another. First of all, there's the timing. You have just quoted the figures: 239 000 addresses, inhabitants, Belgians or compatriots have already been registered. We will still have to do a lot of awareness campaigns to get them all registered. Let us assume that this can be achieved in the long term. But then it is too early to work on a reduction of the sirens already. Secondly, I am sticking to my comments, whether it is a smartphone, a mobile phone or a telephone, in the past it has already been shown that, in the event of larger crises, telephone networks and, above all, mobile networks are overloaded. At that time we cannot reach the inhabitants. That is also one of the reasons why you are distributing five thousand special SIM cards to those people who need to be notified as a matter of urgency. At that time, a simple warning of the citizens is not possible. I would still take those considerations with me, so that at least in the transitional phase, until BE-Alert has been introduced everywhere, everyone knows it and can use it, the network can be maintained. Only then can one evaluate whether the older method of the siren network can be replaced by other methods that can be implemented via BE-Alert and other communication channels. I can still tell you that there used to be a siren above my bedroom when I was a child. So it's woken me up a lot. So I know what it is, but I also know the importance of a siren in case of an alarm. If an alarm goes off near a Seveso company, everyone starts calling at the same time and then the network will be shut down. I don't think we'd want to go through that.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-29-54-commissie-ic773x.u151	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Dallemagne's 22156 will be converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-29-54-commissie-ic773x.u152	Minister, I am familiar with the West Flemish Governor Carl Decaluwé, who regularly contacts me on some topics related to the province in which our temporary chairman is also resident. The West Flemish governor has already pointed out a few times that football matches have a large cost to the municipal authorities, the local police zones and the federal police. That certainly applies to West Flanders. With four out of 16 clubs in first class A and two out of eight clubs in first class B, the police zones in West Flanders are closely involved in the security impact of football matches. A few years ago, the governor organised several meetings with actors involved in football and the associated police deployment. This led to a note whose content can also be read on his own web site. That note would have been handed to you. That's what's in there, isn't it? The note resulted in fourteen findings and recommendations. One is that the cost of police involvement in football matches, compared to other events, is still too high. He advocated the mobilisation and improvement of the self-reliance of football clubs by making greater use of private security and giving additional tasks to stewards. The governor also wants the football clubs themselves to make a financial effort to increase security in the stadiums, for example by reserving a percentage of television rights or a percentage on the balance sheet of the football associations for security facilities at the stadium. Both at the beginning of October, following his annual speech at the Provincial Court, and at the end of October, the West Flemish governor reported on the cost of police deployment at football matches. He also made use of the figures you gave me earlier in replying to a written question. The governor of West Flanders doesn't want the police to be responsible for security around football stadiums anymore. That's very remarkable. Decaluwé proposes to hire private companies and to let the football clubs pay. This would be possible with the new law on private security, allowing municipal authorities to temporarily define an area for an activity considered to be a municipal event. However, the clubs don't think that's a good idea. Finally, the governor also lanced to change the HyCap system that is now free of charge to a payment model. He felt that half of the costs could then be borne by the asking police area, the other half by the consumer, namely the organizer of the football game. I have a number of questions about this, of course, as the impact of this is not small. What is your opinion on the governor's statements about the police deployment that is too expensive for football matches? How do you feel that a football match should be seen more as an event in the future, which would make private security agents more competent for public security at the expense of the football clubs? What do you think about making the HyCap system pay in the future, with any shared costs between the receiving police zone and the organizer of the football game?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-29-54-commissie-ic773x.u153	Mr Vermeulen, I would like to stress that very visible efforts have been made by the federal and local levels in recent years to rationalise police deployment together with the clubs. The concept of hostage which translates into a reception police instead of a control police, coupled with a consistent application of the football law to reduce violence in and around the stadiums, has undoubtedly led to a systematic reduction in the use of police capacity and an increase in investment in the framework of the budgets of the organizing clubs. An increasingly extensive use of the methodology of risk analysis is also constantly contributing to the rationalisation of the police framework of football matches. In a stadium, the organiser still bears primary responsibility for safety. Public road surveillance is in principle reserved for public security actors, in particular police forces. However, according to the law on private security, events also allow private security agents to act on clearly defined areas on the public road, such as around a football stadium. It is up to local government to define that area. The role of private security, of course, remains preventive. The maintenance of public order and the use of coercion and violence remain the preserve of public authority. These core tasks will therefore have to continue to be carried out by the police. Private security agents are complementary to police services, but cannot replace them, given the different legal powers. The complementarity of the surveillance services is therefore a decision of the local council to temporarily define an area within which that can be done. The future will show what the new possibilities for coordination and cooperation will mean at the level of operational and financial investment, both in the police and in the organising clubs. The experience we gain from this will be taken into account in the evaluation of the HyCap system, but I will not make any pre-collections on it. In the context of the HyCap system, however, I have always said that areas that consistently supply HyCap will be rewarded when asked, while areas that consistently or frequently do not deliver will be sanctioned. However, this plays between the police zones, not between the organizing club and the police. In my opinion, it is fairly well defined at the moment. What happens within the stadium is under the supervision of stewards, under the responsibility of the club. The accommodation is the responsibility of the club. Keeping public order in the public domain is a task for the police. I think this is the way it should be, and that is why we will continue to do so.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-29-54-commissie-ic773x.u154	Minister, I understand the governor, in the sense that there should be no derailments when it comes to the deployment of police forces at the expense of the community. That commitment can, but must always be fair. Efforts have been made to this end. The football law has also shown its results; you yourself referred to it. Due to a good organisation and a good risk analysis, fewer and fewer policemen need to be present at football matches. So, policemen aren't being used casually anymore. Local authorities may be responsible for defining an event under the Private Security Act, but it may not be the intention to do so systematically for each competition. I remember the debate on the draft law, where the example of busy shopping streets was given at peak times, in short, exceptional moments and not every game every 14 days. That private security must be complementary with the police and, of course, with the stewards, is the logic itself. This is also part of the comprehensive security policy that we all advocate. I still have some thoughtfulness. I was recently a speaker at the Belgian Football Association in response to my bill. The police zones and the mayors of 1A and 1B clubs were invited there. There was also a great deal of caution about applying private security to the public domain. It is possible, but only under very strict conditions. Otherwise, it's actually shifting resources. People are making others pay, but that is not always the best solution. The best solution is risk analysis. I am pleased with your answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-29-54-commissie-ic773x.u155	Mr President, Minister, on 22 October there was the Club Bruges-Antwerp competition at the Jan Breydel Stadium. It was over 13 years ago that both teams were playing against each other. In the past, confrontations between the two oldest clubs in the country have always caused tensions. That's why Bruges' local police zone decided to deploy over 800 police officers for this match. It was feared that the Dutch hooligans of ADO Den Haag and Willem Il would join their Flemish colleagues from Bruges and Antwerp. The match itself went without too big incidents, with the exception of some Dutch hooligans who tried to enter with copied tickets. An hour after the game, despite the massive police deployment, there were still skirmishes. According to the Bruges police commissioner Van Nuffel, the hard cores of supporters groups of ADO Den Haag and Willem I tried to meet, but they were hit on the police. Bruges' chief of police was of the opinion that the cores of Club Bruges and Antwerp were not much to blame. They had behaved properly, except for a few insults. Eventually, 120 people were arrested. It wasn't the first time that foreign hooligans were present at races from the highest class in Belgium. Not only the highest class, a few years ago they were even in Denderleeuw. On the other hand, hooligans from Belgium go to important competitions of sister clubs, so to speak, to strengthen them. In 2011, then Minister of the Interior, Ms Turtelboom announced that she was in favour of punishing hooligans abroad. In her view, this was discussed at European level at the time, in order to look at an international football law. Since there was no claim in that file, the Minister wanted to look at bilateral agreements. Mr. Secretary, can you confirm that the Club Bruges-Antwerp competition required the deployment of eight hundred policemen? Secondly, how many files are there at the Football Cell following this game? What kind of facts are we talking about? Thirdly, can you tell me what nationality the 120 persons under arrest have? Does this strike with the statements of the Chief Constable of Bruges that it was mainly Dutch hooligans? How many of them have a file started by the Football Cell? Fourthly, how is the exchange of data with Dutch colleagues currently going? Were there any Dutch spotters present during the competition Club Bruges-Antwerp? Do you think that a solution could possibly be found through a bilateral agreement with the Netherlands but also with other countries, if necessary? Finally, during your term as Minister of the Interior, have there been discussions at European level to share the data on hooligans? If so, what is the result? What's the timing?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-29-54-commissie-ic773x.u156	(...) 450 policemen deployed. Ten P.V.s have already been drawn up, two based on the football law, five for vandalism and three for beatings and injuries. Additional judicial CVs will be drawn up through identifications made on the basis of the images. As the investigation is ongoing, no names can yet be released. There are currently three Belgian supporters in custody who will appear before the council chamber on 21 November. As for your third question, a total of 125 administrative arrests were made, including six Dutch and one French. None of the arrests were made. Because at the time of the facts it was decided to embrace the group tactically, there were also innocent supporters within this group. Based on the footage, the perpetrators and the innocent were identified. The images showed that not all Dutch supporters were guilty. The French supporter also did not commit any criminal offences. Supporters guilty of the facts were already identified on the basis of the images, but were not apprehended by administration. A number of Dutch supporters have already been identified by the police of The Hague on the basis of the images. The investigation is ongoing and no further information can therefore be disclosed. As for your fourth and fifth questions, there were two spotters from The Hague present at the competition. They also witnessed the facts at the end of the game. At the time of the facts they have been able to identify some supporters, but most of the identifications are done afterwards on the basis of the images made. The exchange of information with the Netherlands is quite smooth. Within the EU, each country has an obligation to have an international contact point, a National Football Information Point (NFIP) for football-related events. For Belgium, this NFIP is located in the management of Operations regarding the administrative police of the federal police. That service has regular contact with the Dutch colleagues to exchange information, whether personal or not. Since the friendships between supporters are well known by both Belgian and Dutch police forces, there are also numerous direct contacts across the border between the police forces concerned. However, the pure sharing of personal information is not sufficient to easily identify known foreign risk supporters on the ground. Therefore, international police cooperation is regularly called upon to support a team of foreign spotters on the basis of the previous available information and risk analysis. The current legal framework already allows an exchange of both information and staff with the Netherlands. The exchange of personal data is also possible within the EU for the protection of public order. In this context, personal information may be exchanged for a particular event, if there is a suspicion that certain persons will disrupt the order. After the event, that information must be destroyed. We do not think it would be helpful to include the well-known foreign hooligans in our national database, as this has little added value for the operational management of an event. We prefer punctual and event-related exchange of information, accompanied by the deployment of spotters, who know their target group and who are also known by their target group, if required. The imposition of an international stadium ban is a regular discussion at European level. However, because of the different laws and the way in which stadium bans are imposed in the different countries, the courts, administrative authorities, administrations, clubs and national football associations are not possible simply to make stadium bans applicable in different countries. The police would be in favour of the takeover of certain Dutch stadium bans in our own country, in order to prevent such supporters from systematically visiting matches in Belgium during their stadium ban in the Netherlands. Contacts have already been established and ongoing with the Ministry of Security and Justice in the Netherlands in order to find ways of reaching an agreement between the two countries. However, the systems of stadium bans are different in both countries, which makes it difficult to establish a common system. Even in that case, international cooperation on the ground would remain necessary to identify any supporters with a stadium ban.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-29-54-commissie-ic773x.u157	Minister, I am very pleased with your detailed reply and the good cooperation with Dutch colleagues during the famous competition. Apparently there were two spotters present and an investigation is still taking place in The Hague on the basis of the images that have been made. That's a good way to work, actually better than I expected. I am also pleased to hear how the NIVP works, which is under the control of the federal police. I only note that when I went to the afternoon of the Football Association, to which I referred earlier, the representatives of the police told me that more information had to be shared. So it could be that the local police officers still have too little contact. Maybe they'd better get in touch with the people of the federal police. I fully agree with you in that I think an international stadium ban is a fantastic idea. However, working out will be very difficult, knowing that it is already difficult to control national stadium bans. The goal is there, but the means still have to be found.
