ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic608x.u1	Mr Minister, since July 2014, those who offer a place for those convicted have been reimbursed for doing their work. At that time, there would have been provision for the rate of EUR 50 per work sentence, and in this way public services, non-profit organisations, museums or libraries would still receive a limited remuneration for the costs they have to pay to those convicted. If we are to employ convicted persons, we must do a number of things, such as the provision of safety clothing, medical checks and so on. The aim of the small fee was also to create more workshops. The remuneration should therefore be an incentive to create more workshops. In your reply of 11 January 2017 to my written question on this subject, you stated that for the 2014 performance, approximately 27 000 euros were paid out and 55 354 euros for 2015 split between the different regions. If we take the figure for 2015, a quick calculation will show that it is actually a compensation for 1 108 community service. Let us compare this with the number of out-of-work sentences. The last figure I received from you dates back to 2012 with 10 000 out-of-work sentences. I have had a written question pending for some time to get recent figures on the number of service sentences since 2012, i.e. in 2013, 2014 and 2015, but I have still not received an answer to that question, which dates from 4 April 2016. The foreseen budget for 2014 to pay out the compensation initially amounted to EUR 600 000, but given the low percentage of performance places submitted by a claim, it was estimated at a maximum of EUR 100 000 for 2016. For the working area of the Dutch-speaking justice houses there were 2 003 performance places in 2014 and 2 004 places in 2016. For the area of work of the French-speaking justice houses there were 2,500 performance places in 2014 and in 2016 that figure remained the same. For the work area of the Brussels Justice Houses, there were 25 performance places in 2014 and 58 places in 2016. There was therefore an increase. I have three questions for you, Minister. Firstly, can you explain the figures mentioned above? Does the fee still have 50 euros today? Given the discrepancy between the amounts of compensation paid and the expected total number of service sentences, is the incentive of compensation actually sufficiently known? Secondly, when can I expect an answer to my written question on the number of service sentences spoken since 2013? Thirdly, are you considering other measures to increase the number of places of performance?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic608x.u2	Mrs Lahaye-Battheu, by ministerial decision of 24 June 2014, my predecessor fixed a lump sum of EUR 50 that could be granted within the available appropriations per work sentence per judge who has concluded a service contract or service contract with the performance centre and the justice houses from 1 January 2014. This measure was not subject to a specific or additional budget, so its costs are charged on the part of the proceeds of the Road Safety Fund that is owed to the Justice Department. In the implementation of the sixth state reform, jurisdiction over justice houses has been transferred to the Communities since 1 July 2014. The answers to the written questions on community service that you have received so far are based on the data currently available to the FPS Justice Department since the sixth state reform. For further details, the Communities should be questioned as to what the Courts belong to since 1 July 2014. The evaluation of the offer of possible work sentences and other accompanying measures, their follow-up and the functioning of the justice houses shall be carried out within the framework of a specifically established Inter-Ministerial Conference of Justice Houses, together with the Communities. In order to address the concerns of local actors, at the request of the Communities, at the end of last year, in the Law of 20 December 2016 laying down various provisions on social affairs, the principles have been adapted to make the payment condition more consistent with the offer that each Community wishes to improve. Both the scope of the ratione personae, as regards eligible institutions, and the ratione materiae, as regards the costs to be taken into account, have been adjusted. In order to make this more concrete, implementing decisions are currently being prepared with the Communities and will be discussed at a forthcoming inter-ministerial conference.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic608x.u3	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I remember that it has become more complicated since the state reform and that I cannot get an answer to my clear questions today either.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic608x.u4	Minister, I remember very well the reform of the judicial districts in 2014. This reform reduced the number of arrondissements from 27 to 12. Arrondissements came at provincial level. Following that reform, it was clearly stated that the organisational structure would be substantially changed, but that the existing seats would be retained in the interest of proximity to the administration of justice. I quote from the website of the FPS Justice: "The seeker will always be able to rely on the trusted addresses in the near vicinity." However, a few years after the reform, we note that this promise is increasingly under pressure. That is why I want to clarify this. Let me give you the example of labour law banks in the provinces of West and East Flanders. It is said that in the short term the Management Committee wants to create two labour law banks per province. That would be the departments of Kortrijk and Bruges for West Flanders and the departments of Ghent and Dendermonde for East Flanders. For West Flanders this would mean that in a first phase the departments of Veurne and Roeselare, which are now closed two days a week, would be included in those of Ypres and Kortrijk. In a second phase, the Ypres department would then merge into Kortrijk. So there would be only two labour law banks left in the province. For East Flanders, it means that in a first phase the departments of Aalst and Sint-Niklaas would become part of that of Dendermonde, and in a second phase the department of Oudenaarde would become part of that of Ghent. It is stated that, because of a shortage of staff, it is impossible to man the Registry and keep the departments open. It is rumored that since the judges and clerks who retire will no longer be automatically replaced or promoted, the seats will not be kept and buildings will have to be closed. Of course there is some concern about this. Minister, I hope you will be able to restore peace. Are you aware of the distress call? Have you received such signals? What's up? What is your reaction to the concern about the seats? Will you have to shut down buildings for the next few months?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic608x.u5	Mrs Lahaye-Battheu, there are rumours of possible closures of one or other department at the labour court of Ghent. To date, however, I have not been formally informed of a decision or a request from the Management Committee to close one or more sections in Ghent. I understand that the President concerned is trying to organise the court as efficiently as possible with the funds allocated to serve the seeker. The labour court of the resort of Ghent has ten departments spread over East and West Flanders and five for the labour court of Antwerp, which includes Antwerp and Limburg. For the sake of clarity, neither the Management Committee nor a President of the Court is competent to close divisions. They cannot proceed to the closure of a court. Job vacancies are published regularly within the budget area. Last Monday several vacant places for magistrates were published. A publication with approximately 150 vacancies for judicial staff will be published shortly. Four vacancies are proposed for the labour court of Ghent. Those vacancies are bundled into job vacancies. Sometimes the results of general Selor examinations should be awaited, so that there would be enough candidates to post for those vacancies. Moreover, the selections require time and investment because of the court officials. For them too, we are trying to organise this as efficiently as possible. The vacancy plans are always consulted with the lectures. In doing so, the Colleges may propose any adjustments. For the current vacancy plan for the court staff, the lectures would give their feedback today.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic608x.u6	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. It is true, Minister, that a management committee cannot decide on a closure. The key to that is right here in our house. I therefore hope that the promise made in connection with the reform of the judicial district, in particular that seats will not be closed, will be kept.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic608x.u7	Minister, I would like to draw your attention to a number of issues that currently exist in the Dinant Commercial Court. For some time now and due, among other things, to a lack of staff and the failure of the computer system, the filing of company documents can no longer take place directly at the Registry of the Dinant Commercial Court. The service would have been discontinued. The documents can still be deposited in Dinant but they are then transferred to Namur where they are processed. However, due to a lack of staff within Namur's services, only emergencies would actually be dealt with. This system is a waste of time. Dinant's staff is responsible for transferring the documents deposited to Namur. This system also increases the risk of loss of documents and is a brake on legal persons wishing to maintain administrative order. Minister, are you going to take steps to address this important issue? On the other hand, I would like to suggest an interesting idea to consider in the context of the ongoing reorganization. Would it be possible to envisage a transfer of the services devolved to legal persons to the FPS Economy which already manages the Banque-Carrefour des Entreprises? In 2003, when the idea was put in place, it had been put forward but was not put into practice. Today, a feasibility study with people who, in the field, are confronted with the vagaries of the disparate organization of the services mentioned, may be necessary. Minister, what do you think of this idea? Will you study it with your colleague from the Economy? I thank you in advance for the answers you are going to give me.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic608x.u8	Mr Clarinval, you point out the reasons why acts of companies could no longer be filed at the Registry of the Commercial Court of Dinant, including computer problems. Following your question, I had the application checked for technical problems. Dinant's transplant confirmed that there were none. Another reason you invoke is a personal problem. The organization and distribution of staff shall be the responsibility of the President of the Court and the Chief Registrar. I assume that they organize their court and registry in the best possible way. As a minister, I cannot interfere with these questions. It is true that in 2003 a modernisation of the entire deposit flow of corporate instruments was launched. This digitisation is an important aspect of this. The deposit of the instruments of incorporation drawn up by notaries and their registration in the ECB have been done in a completely electronic manner for the last few years. Almost 100% of the constitutions are filed electronically, but it is true that after the completion of this component, the project has completely stopped. In the first months of this legislature, I took the initiative to digitize the entire Service Acts of Societies and, therefore, to go further than the original draft. I have indicated this in the Justice Plan and in my presentation on ICT in this committee. I have also informed the presidents of the commercial courts. The project is called BCE+. Many partners are involved: the SPF Economy; the Agency for Administrative Simplification; the SPF Budget; the services of Mr Borsus, responsible for the middle classes and the self-employed, but also responsible for business windows; and the Minister De Croo, responsible for the Digital Agenda. Explaining the whole project in response to an oral question would take me far too far. The first major and significant achievement in our transplants is planned for the end of this year or the beginning of next year. The changes made to the acts of companies will also take place in a completely digital manner. I would like to point out to you that the number of amendments is a multiple of the number of constitutions and that we will thus make a major step forward.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic608x.u9	Minister, my answer will be twofold. First of all, with regard to the second question, I am pleased to hear that you are making good progress in your project and that you are even going beyond the original idea. I therefore encourage you to continue in this direction. On the other hand, as far as my first question is concerned, there is no longer any way of depositing the documents in Dinant. Shuttles have become necessary to transfer them to Namur, where they are supposed to be registered, but the lack of time complicates this procedure. The problem is not of a computer nature. It became impossible to record the acts in Dinant. So that's a real step backwards. I imagine that when the digital project comes into operation, these problems will be solved. I imagine that the transfer of acts to Namur will then be abolished.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic608x.u10	Mr. Secretary, anyone who wishes to become a guard must first and foremost register on Selor's website. One leaves one's résumé, on which one enters a database. Once or twice a year they are invited to take part in selection tests. Between August and December 2016, nine interviews were organised by way of exception. More than 10 000 interested parties from the database were invited to participate in the tests. Only 12 %, 1 346 people, actually showed up for the tests. 646 succeeded. Of that group, only 328 showed up for medical examination. In the end, 278 candidates turned out to be suitable. Last year, 169 men or women could start as guards in one of our prisons. So they started with a group of 10 000, of which 169 were effectively engaged as guards. Are the figures I have quoted correct? The fact that only 12% of the recruitment reserve showed up raises doubts about the recruitment procedure for guards and, first of all, about the database being built. Is that database kept up-to-date somehow? If so, how? Do you think that the recruitment procedure for guards should be changed? If so, in what sense? What's the situation today? How many open vacancies for guards are there in our prisons? Who decides to organise a selection test for guards and who sets the timing? On what grounds is that decision taken? Who decides to hold a recruitment stop?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic608x.u11	Minister, following the memorandum of understanding signed in May, following the prison strikes, the new procedure for the recruitment of prison guards was launched in February. The new selection method would appear to be the standard screening of the Selor, which evaluates the skills of future prison guards. As a first step, candidates pass computer tests and then face the reality of the function in the prison environment. As my colleague has just mentioned before me, the results, or in any case the number of winners, seem not to be sufficient to meet the demand, and therefore the signed memorandum of understanding. Minister, could you tell me more about the situation? Are you considering reinvigorating a procedure, given that there does not appear to be, given the number of candidates, a match between the selection criteria and what is expected? Are you considering changing the procedure?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic608x.u12	Mrs Lahaye-Battheu, Mr Blanchart, the figures you quoted from the newspaper are the figures that my press cell communicated to the press on 7 December 2016. By the end of 2016, a number of laureates were extra medically inspected, namely 378 in total. Of that group 322 were declared fit to start as a penitentiary security guard, 18 were found to be permanently unfit and 38 were found temporarily unfit, but the latter may also be found to be suitable in the long term. At the end of the year 191 had started their internship as a penitentiary security officer, of which 42 ex-contractuals. In addition, 41 graduates have dropped out and no longer started the internship and 7 trainees have also dropped out during the initial period of their internship. At the same time, 42 trainees have also started in other degrees. All these people come from the registration list that existed at Selor and which contained a small 20 000 people. Under the rules in force, persons who have registered first should be able to take part in the selection test first. That explains why the group that was first invited participated so little effectively. They were often not interested anymore. At the end of last year, the list had been fully consulted for some regions and it was necessary to make tenders possible again for two weeks. For these selections, the participation rate was therefore much higher. Shortly thereafter, Selor launched a new selection round, using new tests and again providing an interview at the end of the procedure. In order to ensure continuity in recruitment, therefore, the previous method had to be used briefly. On today there are 262 places to fill in on the Dutch-speaking side and 168 places along the French-speaking side. The decision to organise selections lies with the FPS Justice itself. The timing is recorded in consultation with Selor. Selections are decided on the basis of the anticipated needs. The fact that a catch-up is now being made has to do with the impact of a general recruitment stop, which has a greater influence on a department like Justice because of its large turn-over. In the DG EPI, the average is over 400 movers per year. The new screening methods for prison supervision assistants are those used by the Selor for all selections for federal employment. In concrete terms, this involves three steps. First, these are computer-based generic tests. Several possibilities are available. Candidates who do not have a higher secondary education diploma must first pass the tests to measure basic and cognitive skills equivalent to a level C diploma. If successful, they can then participate in generic screening tests. Those who have it can pass them directly. Those who are already federal employees at level C are exempt. The second step is the specific computer test. This module measures the specific requirements of the function and is presented in the form of specific computer tests based on the reality of the function in a prison context: observation tests or customized video in the context of a prison supervision assistant, situational judgement tests to assess the ability to solve problems, demonstrate respect and reliability. The third stage consists of a written test followed by an interview. Here, the skills tested are the motivation and image of the function, its context, stress management, teamwork, oral and written communication. The jury for this interview is composed of a president, who is a prison director, a P&O attaché, and two assessors, who are senior officers of the technical oversight framework. Candidates will be ranked according to the marks obtained at the end of the selection process. The new selection method is based on a new competency model, the key criteria of which are: achieving objectives, working as a team, self-development, reliability and service-oriented.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic608x.u13	Thank you, Minister, for your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic608x.u14	Minister, thank you for all this clarification. This exhaustive description of the definition of competencies seems quite appropriate.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic608x.u15	Mr President, Minister, the law of 1 December 2016 amending the Judicial Code and the law of 8 August 1997 on bankruptcy with a view to introducing the Central Register of Solvency was published in the Belgian Moniteur on 11 January 2017. The large number of bankruptcy cases – 10,605 in 2015 – implies a high workload for the courts. To this end, you proposed that bankruptcy files be fully processed electronically. In order to achieve this, a Central Register of Solvency was established through the above-mentioned Act. According to my sources, the effects of this law would be slow to materialize in the relevant bodies. It would appear that the system is temporarily inoperative and that employees, including commercial court clerks, have not received sufficient training and information in this regard. Minister, next April, the system is expected to operate. Do you confirm the facts that I'm reporting to you? If so, what steps do you intend to take to give its operativity to the device, which was particularly welcome in this case?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic608x.u16	Mr. Clarinval, at the last meeting of the Steering Committee, the Manager of the Central Registry of Solvency confirmed to us that he had the capacity to resolve the remaining organizational difficulties. As far as staff training is concerned, I can inform you that the Judicial Training Institute has already duly informed the court clerks, magistrates and judges in commercial matters in December last year. At the steering group meeting, it was decided that the necessary capacity would be provided for the helpdesk, that additional training tools – such as, for example, instructional videos – would be made available and that transplants would assist each other in this transition to digital work. As regards the operation of the system, the first version of the platform is already operational.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic608x.u17	Mr President, I thank the Minister for taking stock of the developments in the matter. I have no doubt that the efforts they have undertaken will bear fruit very soon.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic608x.u18	Mr Minister, the Constitutional Court has annulled Articles 3, 4, 5 and 6 of the Law of 28 April 2015 because they violate the principle of equality, in that the role and registry rights differ in height according to the value of the proceedings. It is noteworthy that the Court agrees with a remark made by the Council of State which was not taken into account. The Council of State's opinion was: "Nevertheless, the justification for these distinctions can be found in the fair relationship also mentioned in the explanatory memorandum to the suspected effort for Justice. The workload involved in dealing with a case and the degree of difficulty of a case do not depend on the financial valuation of the claim. Consequently, the scheme laid down in the proposed Article 269, first, second and third, of the Registration Code does not pass the test of the principle of equality and non-discrimination." In my view, the Constitutional Court has unfortunately limited itself to that finding and has not ruled on whether the measure is such that it impedes access to justice, particularly with regard to persons seeking justice with limited financial resources, taking into account that the contested measures are additional to other recent measures listed in B.9 which raise the financial thresholds for access to justice. In order to address the potential problems relating to the role and registry rights, the Constitutional Court shall retain those rights until 31 August 2017 at the latest until a change by the legislator. Mr Minister, I have the following question. What initiatives will you take in response to this ruling?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic608x.u19	Ms Lambrecht, the Constitutional Court, in its judgment of 13/2017 of 9 February 2017, annulled Articles 3, 4, 5 and 6 of the Law of 28 April 2015 amending the Code of Registration, Mortgage and Registry Rights in order to reform the Registry Rights. However, the same judgment shall continue to apply until 31 August 2017 at the latest to the legislative action the effects of the provisions annulled in respect of the claims brought before a court of law until that date. In that judgment, the Constitutional Court finds that the criterion of the value of the claim is not relevant in order to achieve the objective pursued by the legislator in the context of the reform, in particular in relation to the role rights in relation to the operating costs of the case-law. In cooperation with my administration and the FPS Finance, I launched a consultation on how to reform the registry rights, taking into account the expiry date of 31 August 2017 and the objectives of the reform. In fact, I think it is important that the proposed mechanism ensures access to justice and also takes account of the importance of the dispute. Both administrations are currently analysing the judgment and are soon proposing a solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic608x.u20	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I'm guessing that soon,....................will be referring to this before the date of 31 August.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic608x.u21	Mr Minister, last July, I drew the attention of your colleague, Mr Jambon, in charge of the Régie des Bâtiments, to the provision of new premises for the justice of peace in the canton of Saint-Josse-ten-Noode, and the timetable for its relocation. He then replied: "At the end of 2015, at the beginning of 2016, a new exploration of the rental market was started. This exploration of the rental market generated a shortlist of three buildings. Negotiations with the owners are under way so that no future address can be communicated. One of the buildings enjoys preference and it is hoped that negotiations will be concluded soon. As soon as the negotiations lead to a draft lease agreement, this new lease will still have to be subject to the approval of the Council of Ministers." Then, the Régie des Bâtiments, in a letter dated 29 November 2016, indicated its wish to plan the move of the justice of peace for the beginning of June 2017 in the building property located at 27 Avenue de l'Astronomie. I would also like to remind you that the wish of the municipality of Saint-Josse, the owner of the premises, is to allow the justice of peace to work in safe and suitable premises. That is why we have made considerable efforts to relocate some offices, despite the costs involved. As a reminder, the municipality does not receive any rent or compensation for the occupation of the building by the justice service, unlike other municipalities. In addition, in addition to being a threat to the maintenance of public safety, this building also poses a threat to the health and well-being of all those required to visit, as well as workers. Minister, could you confirm this information? Or do you have any more about it? What is the status of negotiations with the owners of the new accommodation? Has a lease been signed? If so, what is the timing for the move? If not, how long do you intend to do it? What budgets would be available for this project?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic608x.u22	The current accommodation of the justice of peace in Saint-Josse-ten-Noode is unacceptable, everyone agrees to say so. It is also for this reason that I have long urged the Régie des Bâtiments to provide suitable accommodation. A monthly consultation is held between Justice and the Régie, at which time the urgency of this matter is reiterated. Thus, at the last meeting, my strategic unit learned that the file would be submitted to the Finance Inspectorate shortly. For all matters relating to negotiations (lease contract, amount, etc.)I invite you to address my colleague Jambon in charge of the Régie des Bâtiments. I would also like to point out that, in the past, it was the communes which were competent for the accommodation of the justices of peace. However, they could receive Occupancy Compensation if they so requested. In practice, the municipality issued invoices to the FPS Justice which paid them. Since 2014, this obligation has ended and it is the federal state that is responsible, through the Régie des Bâtiments in this case. You should therefore also address my colleague Mr Jambon to questions concerning this element.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic608x.u23	Minister, I would have wanted to know if you had any information that was in the right direction. Did you hear of this information that came to us through the Régie des Bâtiments on November 29th? Have you received more items?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic608x.u24	Out of report, I don't comment on the winds I would have received. We have to ask Mr. Jambon.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic608x.u25	At the communal level, we receive a letter from the Régie des Bâtiments explaining that on 29 November, the building located 27 avenue de l'Astronomie could be suitable for the move and the new accommodation. And you, you don't receive any mail at your department level? I'll ask Mr. Jambon the questions. Of which act.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic608x.u26	Mr. Ducrame will not be present.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic608x.u27	Mr President, Minister, a new application called "Weeder" was created in January in Brussels. The app's creators describe it as a self-help application between cannabis smokers. These troubleshooters are located on an interactive map of Brussels in real time. Anonymity is guaranteed to each user. The application would also exist in France. The Brussels Public Prosecutor's Office warned the site's designers, hosted in France, that they could also be prosecuted. I would therefore like to ask you, Minister, the following questions. What is your view of this application? Will controls targeting this application be put in place? Is there any consultation with the French authorities?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic608x.u28	Mrs Ben Hamou, such application seems illegal to me as it clearly seems to facilitate the use of narcotics. Creators, operators and active users of the application may be prosecuted for facilitating the use of narcotic drugs to others, possibly with the aggravating circumstance of association. They may also be prosecuted for complicity in detention, acquisition, sale. Passive users will not in principle see their criminal situation changed by the use of the application. They shall continue to be liable to the charge of acquisition, possession, where appropriate, of personal use. However, the sole use of the application without proof of a successful transaction but with proof that it was the user's intentions may be punishable as a preparatory act. I can also confirm that the Brussels Public Prosecutor's Office, which has already issued a press release to state that it is studying the various options for prosecution, has opened up criminal information. As regards the possible consultation with the French authorities, these elements are subject to the secrecy of the information.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic608x.u29	Mr President, I thank the Minister for his answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic608x.u30	Mr. Secretary of State, justice is and will continue to be human. Judges are just people who may be wrong when they judge the guilt or innocence of someone who is tried for a crime. However, in our country there are virtually no cases of judicial errors in which innocent people were definitively convicted of a crime that they did not commit. The opposite is the case abroad. Not only in the Netherlands, France and the United Kingdom, but also in most other European countries, there have been several cases in which people have often been in prison for years after a final conviction by the judiciary, and subsequently it appears that the convicted were innocent. The current procedure in Belgium to review a lawsuit may well be at the root of the seemingly perfect case law in our country. In order to be able to request a review of a conviction, many locks are incorporated into the Code of Criminal Procedure, in particular Article 443 et seq. For example, a request for revision must be accompanied by a favourable opinion from three lawyers to the Court of Cassation or from three lawyers to a court of appeal, who are registered at the Bar for 10 years. This seems to be an unnecessary and costly requirement which allows only capital-intensive applicants to submit such a request and which unnecessarily impedes access to the right to that procedure. The intervention of a lawyer at the Court of Cassation who submits the application should suffice. Moreover, if the application for revision is based on a new fact or on a circumstance which the person concerned could not prove during the trial, the case shall be referred to a court of appeal for a binding opinion, in accordance with Article 445 of the Code of Criminal Procedure. That can therefore also be the appeal court of which a Board of Appeal has ruled on the conviction itself. This obviously does not improve the credibility of the procedure. The investigation by an extrajudicial body seems to be more recommended here. There are also specialized committees abroad that are involved in the investigation of possible legal errors. In England there is a Criminal Cases Review Commission; in the Netherlands there is the Advisory Committee on Closed Criminal Matters, but none of that currently exists in Belgium. This problem has been known for some time. In this context, the Dutch-speaking Advisory and Research Committee of the Supreme Court of Justice wrote a letter to the then Minister of Justice on 16 December 2013 in which they recommended legislative initiatives to improve the current review procedure and in which she specifically referred to the legislation in the Netherlands and the legislative proposal. With the implementation of the government agreement, you state in your judicial plan that you will address the issue of the revision of criminal law. On 10 June 2015, as Minister of Justice, you requested advice from the Supreme Court of Justice on improving the review procedure in criminal matters. On 22 June 2016, the Supreme Court of Justice gave its opinion. Minister, how many requests for revision of a criminal case have been submitted to the Court of Cassation over the last ten years? Secondly, how many of these applications were considered valid and led to the termination of the original judgment or judgment? Thirdly, when can the Court receive the draft law which makes the necessary adjustments in order to be able to review actual criminal proceedings in Belgium?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic608x.u31	Mr Metsu, the review in criminal matters is an exceptional procedure which, according to our current legislation, can only be applied in a limited manner. It is not intended to create a third instance in the course of justice, but only to enable the restoration of justice in cases in which it is beyond doubt possible to prove that a fundamental error has occurred in the decision of the court. To date, the revision is limited to three grounds, in particular incompatibility between convictions on the same ground, the conviction of a witness per charge for giving false testimony in the case under review and/or a new fact which was not known to the courts at the time of the conviction and which appears to follow the innocence or application of a less stringent penal law. Criticism of the assessment of the facts by the fully informed court does not fall within the concept of new factual fact. According to figures previously requested, a total of 50 requests for revision were examined at the Court of Cassation in the years 2000 to 14 July 2015, 15 of which resulted in a review decision and 10 of which resulted in an effective annulment of the judgment or judgment. In the past, criticism of the procedure for examining the new elements was expressed in the doctrine of law and in specific cases, in particular as regards the binding opinion of a court of appeal before the Court of Cassation. Following earlier opinions, such as those of the Supreme Court of Justice and the Court of Justice, I have now drawn up a preliminary draft law which will improve and objectify the procedure on a number of points. The text largely provides for three innovations which further underline the independent assessment. The Court of cassation itself will, through the Attorney General of the Court of Cassation, ask for additional investigations to be carried out. An independent and non-binding opinion may be requested by the Court of Cassation. If the Court of Cassation finds that there are new elements, it must refer the case to a court or court other than that which has previously dealt with the case before it for further consideration. The text has already been discussed at government level for the first time. Opinions are now being sought, inter alia, from the newly constituted Supreme Court of Justice and the Magistrate. Depending on this, I hope to be able to bring the text to the Council of Ministers before the summer of this year in order to request the opinion of the Council of State.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic608x.u32	Mr President, I would like to thank the Minister for his reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic608x.u33	Minister, over the last few days I read in the newspaper that there are problems with paying invoices by the FPS Justice to right holders. After the terrorist attacks of 22 March, four independent dentists, working with the Disaster Victim Identification Team of the federal police, immediately deposited themselves on the identification of the victims at Zaventem airport and at the Maalbeek metro station. Thanks to their expertise, it was possible to name the bodies in such a short time and identify them with scientific certainty. Their fee note was submitted in August last year. I heard that these experts, almost a year later, have still not been paid for their work. Apparently, this is not a single case, and this happens regularly after a major disaster involving the identification of experts. Following my questions, Minister. First of all, you said on Radio 1 that you'd run the business. I'd like to hear from you what this has done. Secondly, how can invoices remain or, according to your statements, be sent to the wrong service? Is there any clear indication of where invoices should be sent to, and who is responsible for that? Thirdly, what is the general status of late payments and what is the time limit within which the judiciary carries out payments of invoices? What's the catch-up? Within what time limit will be paid, since you state that invoices should have been paid five months after the date.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic608x.u34	Mrs Lambrechts, the federal court that collects the cost states on terrorism, has asked the investigators who have appointed the dentists. The federal prosecutor then sends the cost statements to the Court of Justice service, which pays them after checking. The three dentists received their assignments from two investigators. In the central accounting system an invoice of 5 715.75 euros can be found for 2017 in the name of the first dentist. After the necessary internal controls were carried out, he was paid by the FPS Justice on 16 February 2017. So that's last week, strangely enough that was one day before I was on the radio; but I didn't know that then. For the second dentist there is an invoice of 3 494.84. This statement of costs was also forwarded for payment on 16 February 2017. One invoice was processed from the third dentist on 28 December 2016, but has not yet been paid. The last invoice was returned after verification because it contained errors. On average, those invoices were not more than six months old. The appointment of an expert in the context of a criminal investigation in which additional investigative actions are to be carried out shall be carried out on the initiative of the prosecutor, a investigating judge or the police. The FPS Justice can only treat the cost states if they were registered in the central accounting system. This presupposes that a contract to an expert was properly registered at the Registry or the Office's Office, a magistrate checked the expert's claim and finally registered the request for payment of the statement of costs. The statement of costs shall be forwarded to the Court of First Instance of the FPS Justice for control and payment. If the statement of costs was not passed on by the Registry or by the Public Prosecutor, it is not known by the Public Prosecutor's Office and cannot therefore be paid. Costs shall always be borne by the FPS Justice if the expert has carried out his duties on behalf of a magistrate, unless he is appointed on the initiative of the police and the file is not subject to judicial action. For the attacks of 22 March, the NICC, the National Institute of Criminalism and Criminology, confirms that all law doctors were correctly appointed by the investigators.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic608x.u35	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. The procedure seems very cumbersome to me. I therefore think it is logical that there should be mistakes in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic608x.u36	Mr President, Minister, a €750,000 decommitment for investments in digital technology has been foreseen. As a result, 6,000 new laptops will be acquired to conduct video conferencing hearings. It is also envisaged that, as early as September, defendants in criminal proceedings will be able to appear before the Chamber of Counsel through this system. This type of technology allows an accused person to appear from prison raises questions about respect for the presumption of innocence. The institution of a prison may affect the independence of the judge when, for example, he or she has to decide whether or not to extend the detention of an accused person or an accused person. While video-conferencing helps to increase efficiency, it remains essential for justice to maintain its human dimension. In particular, it appeared that the presence of a camera could alter the behaviour of litigants, either in the direction of greater paralysis or in the opposite direction. To that end, their use must therefore be properly regulated in order to avoid any drift that could distort justice by infringing the right to a fair trial. For what types of procedures can video conferencing be used? What are the conditions for a videoconference to take place? On the basis of what criteria is its use defined? What are the costs of such investments? Is this reform designed to save money? If so, can you encrypt them? What are the results of the tests conducted on this subject?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic608x.u37	Mr President, Mr Blanchart, last week I answered in this committee a question from Mr Van Vaerenbergh. I also refer to my answer to that question. I found that on this issue, articles appeared in the media that were not always correct in detail. This was probably the cause of some errors. The investment of €750,000 has nothing to do with the purchase of 6,000 laptops under the modernisation programme. This investment allows us to extend to the other jurisdictions the pilot of video conferencing in civil cases which, for some years already, are successfully taking place at the level of the Antwerp Court of Appeal, in conjunction with the technical facilities at the Hasselt courthouse. The use of video conferencing shall take place at the request of the parties. The proposed use of video-conferencing for chamber appearances of counsel is provisionally suspended pending the ruling of the Constitutional Court. Lawyers.be brought this procedure against the law, which was adopted after consideration in this commission, following a bill on the matter. I await the ruling of the Constitutional Court before making any statement on the subsequent enforcement of the law.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic608x.u38	Thank you for that clarification. I was a little concerned, given the need, sometimes, for a court to be solemn.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-22-54-commissie-ic608x.u39	Question No 16820 by Mrs Carina Van Cauter is postponed. Question No 16822 by Mr Johan Klaps is transformed into a written question. Questions Nos. 16838, 16839 and 16840 by Ms. Julie Fernandez Fernandez were postponed. MM. Vanvelthoven and Vercamer have not indicated their presence, absence or willingness to change or postpone their questions, so our work is closed.
