ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-17-54-commissie-ic667x.u1	Mr Minister, my question is a little dated, but it is not your fault; it is I who have not been able to go to this committee the last time it has been held. It concerns the overview of Brussels and the follow-up to the consultation committee of 19 April 2016. I'd like to take a look at this together. I simply recalled that the hours of sleep of the Brussels people from 10 p.m. to 7 a.m. had to be respected, the wind standards and the most populated areas. Is it correct, Minister, that you did not have a mandate from the federal government at the last consultation committee to make proposals to the federated entities? Have you since resumed negotiations within the federal government and with the federated entities? What are your proposals for success? Finally, what is the state of the negotiations to establish a supervisory authority?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-17-54-commissie-ic667x.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, Madam President, first of all, and to be precise, with regard to the assertions that are at my disposal, I would like to point out that the consultation committee was held following the conflict of interest initiated by Flanders on the abolition of the tolerance of the noise standards of the Brussels Region. Noise standards do not fall within the scope of my powers, but rather those of the Regions. In the more general case of the overflight around Brussels-National, I am taking on my responsibilities and working with my team on a comprehensive and fair solution. To do this, discussions are taking place with my federal colleagues and our respective firms. At the last consultation committee, I therefore proposed to the Regions, in parallel with the federal discussions, to maintain the inter-federal consultation organised within my cabinet by proposing four new working groups. A meeting was held in my office on 10 May to define the methodology and a work agenda. Following consultation with my federal colleagues, an invitation to new working groups will be sent to the various regional interlocutors. With regard to the independent supervisory authority, it is part of a comprehensive and equitable plan that will enable the problem to be resolved in a sustainable manner using technical, institutional, operational and legal tools. The establishment of such an authority also requires the assistance of the Regions and will be the subject of a cooperation agreement.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-17-54-commissie-ic667x.u3	Minister, thank you. On May 10, there was a proposal for a working method and an agenda. And, as I understand it, since then, nothing has happened. Do you expect the working groups to return?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-17-54-commissie-ic667x.u4	No! The method and the work schedule have been defined. Now, the working groups are planned.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-17-54-commissie-ic667x.u5	Do you have any idea how long?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-17-54-commissie-ic667x.u6	Three weeks to a month!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-17-54-commissie-ic667x.u7	Minister, the summer is coming, in which the Belgian coast will receive a mass of tourists. These tourists use public transport and often take the train to travel to their destination. The train system can be consulted on the SNCB website, where you can perfectly plan the route from point A to point B. If someone is looking for a way to get to Zeebrugge-Dorp station by train from the interior on a working day, the SNCB website recommends that they travel to Blankenberge or Knokke by train and from there take the tram to Zeebrugge-Dorp station. In only a few cases the person is advised to take the train to station Zeebrugge effectively. During the weekend it is much worse as there is no train at all to Zeebrugge-Dorp, but only to Zeebrugge-Strandwijk. People are sent to Ostend or Wenduine to travel to Zeebrugge. Every ride is different through the website. Sometimes one has to take bus and tram, other times train and tram and this to different destinations. The cacophony on the SNCB website makes it complicated for travellers to travel to Zeebrugge, which will make it easy for many. There are too few trains to Zeebrugge, especially on weekends, which encourage tourists to go to the surrounding coastal cities and not to Zeebrugge, which is bad for tourism in Zeebrugge. Mr Minister, my proposal is to have the trains to Zeebrugge-Strandwijk run along the same lines as the trains to and from Knokke-Blankenberge. These trains could split up in Bruges: a part to Zeebrugge-Strandwijk and another part to Zeebrugge-Dorp or Ostend and at the return drive in Bruges link towards the interior. Tourists/travelers should switch less and tourism for Zeebrugge will increase as there are more regular trains to and from Bruges. Minister, I have two questions. First of all, how do you feel about my proposal? Secondly, are you planning to take initiatives to improve the train supply to Zeebrugge? If so, which one?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-17-54-commissie-ic667x.u8	You have two questions, Mrs Lambrecht.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-17-54-commissie-ic667x.u9	Mr Minister, following on from my question about the lack of clarity and poor service from Zeebrugge-Dorp and Zeebrugge-Strand station, I would also like to draw your attention to the lack of information on both stations. The scheme for the new train connections is sometimes confusing for regular users, and for tourists and one-off users it is already quite unclear what the scheme is like. In the past, this problem has been raised a number of times by SNCB. In response to this information boards were placed, but they are not always in the field of vision and are not always understandable, especially for people with a different language background. Especially that other-language aspect can be very useful, as more and more tourists from the cruise ships want to use the train to travel from Zeebrugge to Bruges. Is it possible to inform passengers better about the train arrangements from Zeebrugge-Dorp and Zeebrugge-Strand station? Can the information boards be placed in a better place so that they are more visible? Can this information also be made available to tourists in other languages?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-17-54-commissie-ic667x.u10	Dear colleague, the route planner on the SNCB website uses a fixed algorithm and always shows the fastest route. The results show the different modes of traffic to reach the desired destination. If customers only want to see the connections to the train, they can use the filter. SNCB informs me that she is currently working on a new site with a new route planner that is easier and more customer friendly. This new development is currently being tested with some customers. According to SNCB, splitting trains in Bruges is time-consuming. In addition, customers experience this as disturbing. If SNCB removes links or divisions of trains, it will do so in the interest of its customers, who in this case consider travel time to the coast to be particularly important. In the summer months the trains are distracted to the stop Zeebrugge-Strand instead of to the center of Zeebrugge. SNCB explains that this choice was made precisely to offer visitors to the coast a more attractive train connection. Moreover, it appears that of all coastal municipalities between Ostend and Knokke Zeebrugge attracts the least train passengers. In addition, the coastal tram Zeebrugge serves smoothly. SNCB clarifies that choices must therefore be made here and that it does not currently intend to expand its offer. As regards the lack of information at Zeebrugge station, SNCB informs me that there are no electronic information screens in Zeebrugge-Dorp and Strand. Electronic information screens are only placed from a certain number of travellers. In Zeebrugge-Dorp and in Zeebrugge-Strand, the timetable and boatyard information are already available near access to the platform. In accordance with the language legislation, SNCB presents the passenger information in Dutch in its coastal stations.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-17-54-commissie-ic667x.u11	Mr Minister, it is said that there are few travellers and that this is why they do not do so, but there are few travellers because there are far too few trains. It's actually kind of in a circle. I know that you may not be able to do much about this personally, but I do take it a little hard on SNCB because we will never get ahead in this way. I am convinced that if there were more trains, there would be more passengers. It is, of course, very correct what you say about language legislation in relation to Dutch, but one must also go along with the time. Thousands of cruise passengers arrive every year. They don't speak Dutch, they speak English. I think it is a very rigid, unwieldy attitude on the part of SNCB, who ought to go a little more along with her time, but, once again, Minister, I do not really blame you. I would like SNCB to make it a little easier for you, because we have to ask you the questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-17-54-commissie-ic667x.u12	Minister, I had addressed this question to the Minister of the Interior, but he forwarded it to you. I'm curious to see why. MS patients are subject to a number of additional conditions for their driving licence in our country, depending on their physical limitations. These are defined in Annex 6 of the Royal Decree of 23 March 1998. For example, it often has a limited period of validity. For example, one gets permission to drive a vehicle for two years. So every two years the patient has to take another driving test. It is arranged that these examinations can be taken free of charge. However, the price of renewal of the driving licence at the ticket office of the town hall must be paid every time. That is what my specific question is about. The reasoning followed by the regions, i.e. taking the test free of charge, is apparently not followed at the federal level as regards the issue of the licence. Do you think it is logical and fair that, in the event that citizens have to renew their driving licences more often than usual, for medical reasons, they have to pay compensation again and again? If not, how do you intend to remedy this problem? By when would you like to address the problem?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-17-54-commissie-ic667x.u13	My dear colleague, pursuant to Article 61 (2) of the Royal Decree of 23 March 1998, the renewal of a provisional driving licence or a driving licence on grounds of medical or psychological fitness shall not be subject to a fee for categories AM, A1, A2, A, B, B+E or G. However, those exceptions to the licence fee scheme do not apply to the renewal of driving licences for paid carriage or to categories C1, C1+E, C+E, D1, D1+E, D, D+E, where the fitness test relates only to that.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-17-54-commissie-ic667x.u14	It is possible that the municipality still charges a municipal fee for its administrative costs. It will therefore depend on each municipality whether, in the cases referred to above, it will charge another municipal tax.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-17-54-commissie-ic667x.u15	Minister, if I understand correctly, there is a legal basis for granting this exemption, but if you have to pay, it depends solely on a decision by the municipality. Yes. Does this also apply to driving licence B, because you have listed the driving licences?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-17-54-commissie-ic667x.u16	C, CE, C1+E, C1, D, D1, D1+E and D+E
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-17-54-commissie-ic667x.u17	But driver's license B isn't one of them?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-17-54-commissie-ic667x.u18	No.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-17-54-commissie-ic667x.u19	So there's no exception for driver's license B. That's what it's all about. It's about the driver's license B, the classic driver's license. Would it not be appropriate for the exception to be extended to driving licence B? This is, after all, the situation facing an MS patient.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-17-54-commissie-ic667x.u20	That's right. The Royal Decree provides that there is no fee for category B and for AM, A1, A2, A, B, B+E or G.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-17-54-commissie-ic667x.u21	You started with C, C1, C1+E. So if there is to be paid it is a local decision and federally it is exempt.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-17-54-commissie-ic667x.u22	Minister, presented at the time as an alternative to the company car, the reflection on the proposed mobility budget has changed somewhat in recent weeks. For example, the Central Economic Council and the National Labour Council have recently issued a joint opinion on the subject. They argued in favour of a hybrid scenario in which the worker, to the extent that he freely agreed to give up his company vehicle, would benefit from a package based, at his option, on sustainable means of transport: a smaller and less polluting car, access to public transport or a financial balance which, not devoted to mobility, could be paid in cash. When asked about this, you said, and I quote: "The Central Economic Council sets out very relevant recommendations. This is in the right direction in terms of sustainable development." However, the question of the budget still needs to be refined and defined because, again, I quote: "We need flexibility. It is necessary to avoid the boon effect where cash could be qualified as a professional income." On 3 May, again, you said to this committee: "I want the mobility budget to be built into an integrated sustainable mobility policy. The terms of this budget, however, still have to be defined." As such, your colleague the Minister of Finance would have commissioned a study to establish the regulatory framework for a cash compensation against the abandonment of a company car. Minister, as you know, my colleague Gilles Foret and I are following this issue carefully. We would have liked to have some answers to the following questions. Could you provide us with an outline of the recommendations you have been given and give us the leads that, at this stage, enjoy your preference? What is the status of the mobility budget at this stage? Have some progress been made in terms of global reflection? What about the consultation with the social partners on this issue? Finally, what is the timetable for the completion of this dossier? What about the consultations with your colleague in charge of finance, Minister Van Overtveldt?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-17-54-commissie-ic667x.u23	Minister, we are currently discussing the introduction of a mobility budget. It is, of course, a good thing that there is an alternative alongside the company car to fill in the mobility of workers. However, the proposal under discussion seems to be fundamentally different from the one we launched a few years ago, which would provide a virtual portfolio to fill in its mobility. This is a cash-for-car story, where the value of the company car is converted into a cash sum added to the employee's salary. We are wondering whether this will have sufficient effects on mobility and commuting. That is why I went back to the statements you made earlier on this issue in your policy paper and in connection with its discussion. I noticed that you were talking about a mobility allowance, initially, and that a full mobility budget could be drawn up later. It is intriguing, given the current developments surrounding the discussions of the mobility budget which is rather the character of a mobility grant, to look back at those statements made at the end of last year when discussing your policy paper. I therefore have the following questions, Minister. You are, I think, the only person in Parliament who has used the word mobility allowance. Would you like to explain a little more about what you think the mobility allowance should look like in a first step? What employees would be entitled to that allowance? Is it just about employees with a company car or about everyone? Should employers, in your view, be obliged to offer the mobility allowance or is it a free choice? How should the allowance be calculated? Should the company car be completely converted into a mobility allowance or could it be partially converted? How exactly do you see that? Should the allowance, according to your vision, consist of a cash budget or a virtual budget? Could the mobility allowance be spent solely on mobility or on other matters, and how can it be guaranteed? When discussing the policy paper, you also made the following statement: "The different spending of the patronal budget available for that car is the company car............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... That quote wasn't entirely clear to us. Could you give me a little more explanation? What is your current vision during the negotiations for a mobility budget? I assume this will be part of the negotiations. Finally, you also referred to a centre of expertise within the federal government. At what point would you like to set up this centre of expertise to take the first steps? Who's gonna be a part of it?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-17-54-commissie-ic667x.u24	Ladies and gentlemen, as I have already indicated, at the last committee meeting, in response to questions 17819 and 17784, I have read the opinion of the social partners and their proposals. I share their concern that a mobility budget should be drawn up that fits in with an integrated policy for sustainable mobility. However, the modalities of this mobility budget still need to be determined within the government. I also agree with them that this integrated policy of sustainable mobility should fit into an interfederal strategic vision of mobility that is much wider than just the mobility budget. My services are currently working on developing such a long-term vision that must be sustainable, intermodal, multimodal and digital. At the initiative of my colleague from Finance, a study was carried out with the aim of establishing a regulatory framework, aimed in particular at compensating the company car in whole or in part by a cash amount, to be allocated in part to means of transport, an amount which will contribute to increasing the purchasing power of households. This proposal is currently under consideration. With regard to the study itself and the timing, I refer you to my colleague the Minister of Finance. With a view to achieving genuine mobility à la carte for all, I would add that the competent services of the Mobility and Transport FPS, in collaboration with the Belgian Institute for Road Safety (IBSR) and in contact with certain actors in the field, are currently examining the regulatory framework related to the different modes of transport, which is relatively complicated. On this basis, various simplifications and harmonisations could be proposed and discussed with the relevant members of the government: the Minister of Finance, the Minister of Employment, the Minister of Social Affairs and myself. The mobility budget is a complex matter which will take several months, or even one or two years, before it can be achieved in practice. We must harmonize things in terms of social security. A number of benefits are subject to social security, while others are not. A mobility budget must be neutral at this level and harmonised so that direct or indirect taxation is not the only parameter of choice for people who need to move. There must also be flexibility within companies, in the relationship between the employer and the worker, in the choice of mode of travel depending on where the worker lives.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-17-54-commissie-ic667x.u25	Thank you for your answer, Minister. I understand that this is a cross-jurisdictional issue. He deserves to be given the necessary time to arrive at the best possible solution. We must move forward on this issue, make proposals because it concerns the future of mobility in our country and elsewhere. Since the project will take a long time, we will return to interview you and your colleagues, as the steps progress.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-17-54-commissie-ic667x.u26	Mr Minister, thank you for your answer, which seems to me to be very interesting, because if I understand correctly, you will see the measures that are being taken now, on cash for car and the mobility allowance, as a first step.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-17-54-commissie-ic667x.u27	...
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-17-54-commissie-ic667x.u28	In the long term, a full mobility budget will have to be multimodal and work with apps. I think this is a very important addition. After all, it must not be left alone in the cash-for-car story, because I believe that we will be failing if we are to come up with an integrated and multimodal solution. I can only welcome your answer, for which I am grateful.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-17-54-commissie-ic667x.u29	Mr President, Minister, many articles have recently been devoted to the flying car project, called Flyer, which is currently being developed by an American startup. According to our information, the marketing of this individual flying machine is planned at the end of the year, with the help of one of the founders of the giant Google. Like the drone industry, which emerged in a very short period of time and required adjustments to air regulations, this new type of aircraft raises safety and airworthiness questions. The project is obviously not the only one and already a number of manufacturers are working or have announced working on similar models in America, Asia and the European continent. Mr. Minister, is there any current thinking within your services to guide the use of this type of equipment? Is a European consultation already under way or planned? What are the government's priorities in dealing with this phenomenon, in order to better understand it? Have your services ever been approached by manufacturers of this type of equipment? If so, what is the status of these discussions?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-17-54-commissie-ic667x.u30	Ladies and gentlemen, a company from the Netherlands is indeed active in this field. The Dutch authorities have not yet legislated on this matter. The introduction of a flying car into current traffic is therefore for the moment nothing more than an idea. This subject has not yet been addressed at the level of the European Union or the United Nations Economic Commission for Europe. No standard has yet been established for these vehicles. Of course, it is desirable that a level playing field be guaranteed at European level to avoid difficulties in international air traffic. At the level of Belgium, it goes without saying that this will require a whole series of changes. We are still at the beginning of the discussion. For my administration, this discussion will be conducted by both DG Air Transport and DG Road Traffic. This implies that the responsibility for the certification of such a flying gear may, according to European regulations, lie with the European Aviation Safety Agency or the Directorate-General for Air Transport (DGTA) in accordance with its classification. If the responsibility lies with the DGTA, there is already a circular on the certification of prototypes. If the car is flying and is supposed to be an aircraft, its driver will, like any pilot, have to meet all the standard conditions. Without a concrete project, it is currently difficult to measure the impact on the environment and on airspace or in terms of noise pollution.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-17-54-commissie-ic667x.u31	Minister, thank you for your answer. Indeed, progress is not stopped. Human genius is boundless. Like other phenomena such as drones, technological developments are developing at exponential speed. They should therefore be anticipated, particularly in terms of their consequences. In any case, I note that you have already been made aware of the issue. Of course, it is not tomorrow that we will see flying cars in our sky, but perhaps the day after tomorrow. We will have to be able to adapt to this, but I think I will still have the opportunity to ask you again about it before this is actually the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-17-54-commissie-ic667x.u32	Thank you, Mr. Calomne. Perhaps we will see autonomous flying vehicles on the occasion of a next question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-17-54-commissie-ic667x.u33	Mr President, Minister, following a judgment of the Court of Cassation, the police courts are now obliged to take into account only the "corrected" speed, and not the "measured" speed, in the context of cases relating to the respect of speed by motorists. As you know, so far magistrates have had the choice of data used. When asked about this, an IBSR spokesman stated that "there is no reason to admit that judges can apply different sanctions depending on the case. Treating all motorists on an equal footing is normal (...). In his time, Minister Landuyt pleaded for the abolition of the very notion of corrected speed, but the police forces want to retain the idea of a technical margin in order to avoid abusive challenges (... [[).]] One might wonder, however, whether it would not be appropriate to reduce the margin now tolerated. The issue is all the more relevant because the radars of the last generation are much more precise than their predecessors. At the time of the General States of Road Safety in December 2015, the Director of Road Police had been in favour of such a measure. The difference between real speed and corrected speed is less wide among our neighbours". In this regard, Minister, I would like to ask you the following questions. Do you share the analysis of the IBSR spokesperson regarding the reduction of the margin today tolerated? With regard to the actual speeds, the minister who preceded you had commissioned a study on a possible change in the limitations. Have you received the conclusions and, if so, could you provide us with the content of the conclusions?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-17-54-commissie-ic667x.u34	Mr President, Mr Calomne, the aim of technical tolerance is to take into account the error in the operation of the cinemometer under ideal laboratory conditions and also the error in the operation of the cinemometer under real conditions. In determining the value of this technical tolerance, the maximum permissible error values had been taken into account. These are set out in the Royal Decree of 12 October 2010 on the approval, verification and installation of the measuring instruments used to monitor the implementation of the Law on the Road Safety Police and the decrees issued pursuant to it, which provides for a permissible margin of error of 20 per cent for speeds below 30 km/h, 6 km/h for speeds between 30 and 100 km/h and 6 per cent for speeds above 100 km/h. The technical tolerance protects the driver against incorrect verbalization due to the fault of the instrument in the area close to the authorized speed limit. Therefore, I am of the view that the principle of technical tolerance applied by the police and the judiciary should be maintained. However, given the technical progress, the values of this technical margin could be reduced by half, for example. It should be noted that a regulatory change will necessarily result in a reassessment of all models approved today with the risk that they will not pass the evaluation. This will pose practical problems for the police, who are still using older radars with the margin of tolerance I have given you earlier, as well as a change in the conditions of use of metrological characteristics, for example, by increasing the minimum length of the journey for a travel control system. My administration will, however, discuss this issue with the federal police in order to see possible developments. I would add that the federal authority is only responsible for the licensing of radars used by the police to detect offences on highways. For other types of road, the subject matter belongs to the Regions. The objective of the IBSR study was to investigate the impact of changing speed limits on motorways on mobility, road safety and the environment. This study is now complete and the main results are still to be made public, which will be done as soon as possible, in the coming days.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-17-54-commissie-ic667x.u35	I thank the minister for his full response. We will follow closely the communication of the results of this study concerning the possible modification of the maximum speed on motorways.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-17-54-commissie-ic667x.u36	Mr President, Minister, everyone agrees that the punctuality of rail is fundamental if we are to offer an attractive offer and ensure confidence in current and future rail users. As the commuters' representatives and yourself often point out in this Parliament: "The optimal solution is obviously to make trains arrive on time. Otherwise, reliable and consistent information between the different broadcast channels (signboards, mobile apps, SNCB escorts and speakers) is crucial to appease the frustration of travellers and allow them to organize themselves for the future." Minister, how does SNCB intend to improve passenger information policy, effective circulation and consistency of messages in the coming months? What are the material and human resources allocated to the operation of the passenger information unit? What about the possibility of changing a theoretical timetable on the panels and in the application to mask actual delays and reduce the statistics of delay? What is the assessment of the migration of Rail Time to a new application? Indeed, this migration seems to pose some problems. What are the avenues for improvement in this area? Finally, with regard to open data policy, the SNCF website offers a range of data sets to improve communication and information to travellers. Do you have any information about this policy within SNCB?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-17-54-commissie-ic667x.u37	Colleagues, SNCB informs me that the service that deals with real-time information to clients will now work in a more cross-cutting way. The information is managed from a single location at SNCB, which then communicates the information to its customers via numerous channels such as announcements, screens at railway stations, employees at railway stations, but also via train accompaniment or digital channels. According to SNCB, this will have a beneficial effect on the flow of information that is important to travellers. The purpose of SNCB is to provide its clients with high quality information in the most efficient way possible. SNCB states that it wants to make information for travellers a real priority. SNCB has made its real-time hourly data available on its website since 5 April 2017. From that date until May 9, 2017, SNCB has received 202 requests for contracts. These contracts are sent out the same day. 29 contracts have already been signed and the others are waiting for third parties. Information to travellers regularly returns to the agenda of the consultation meetings with the stakeholders. As far as schedules are concerned, SNCB informs me that it receives Infrabel's planning and real time data via computer systems. These data are displayed on the various applications. Almost all of the real time application features have been taken over in the SNCB smartphone app. Nevertheless, there are still some elements that still need to be included in the new application, such as the reasons for train delays. These must be communicated in non-technical language and understandable by customers and travellers. The consistency of data between station screens and smartphones also needs to be improved in the future. Finally, the real time application was appreciated for its simplicity of use. Also, for the renewal of its website and for the evolution of the smartphone application, SNCB uses test panels made up of customers throughout the design process of user interfaces. This co-creation approach was used in particular during the last major update of the iOS application.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-17-54-commissie-ic667x.u38	Thank you, Minister, for these elements. The intention of SNCB is to reorganise information and communication, in particular through the CEO, who has just taken up his duties, as it has obviously realised the importance of transversality in the organisation of the flow of information. I think it's very important because, as I did this morning again, the inconsistency in the information that is being conveyed on the signs and in the applications is not positive for travellers who want a train on time. It is true that information makes it possible to organize. It's important. At the level of open data policy, I understand that there are requests for contracts to access this information. I would like to recall the philosophy that SNCF has implemented around a free access platform, without contract, for all developers, with more than 196 sets of data. Mr. Van den Bergh will not contradict me: it is important to go towards this philosophy of open data, with these free access platforms. I am confident that we will be able to return to the improvements that will be made in the reliability and consistency of information.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-17-54-commissie-ic667x.u39	Mr. Secretary, is there any future for Bombardier in Bruges? That is the question that has emerged today, actually all week, now that the train and tram constructor wants to delete 160 jobs, one third of the total number. In response to the disturbing reports for Bombardier on the possible delocalisation of parts of the production process, I asked Parliament on 2 February to really monitor the proper contractual implementation of the construction of 445 double deck trains type M7 in Bruges. The contract clearly states that the construction must be done from beginning to end in Bruges. You then promised to succeed Minister Peeter and you also promised talks with the Bombardier Summit. Hence my questions. Firstly, how do you explain that the calls did not actually produce any results in order to keep the full production of the double deck trains for SNCB in Bruges? Couldn't you get what was contractually agreed? Secondly, will you enter into new conversations in order to have what was contractually agreed on paper also carried out effectively? My second question is part of this. At the end of last year my colleague De Coninck questioned you about the order of those M7 vehicles by SNCB at the consortium Bombardier- Alstom. During the negotiations, an agreement was reached between SNCB and the company to build these carriages entirely in the Brugse site of Bombardier. In your reply, you stated that the sites where the manufacturer produces M7 carriages were specified in the contract and that their modification was subject to a set of quality conditions. Recently we were told that 160 jobs will disappear at the Bruges factory of the Canadian train builder. As a result, the company would no longer be run from Bruges but from the northern French Crespin and the production of the M7 cars in Bruges would also be compromised. Minister, what was literally in the contract about these production sites? Secondly, what quality conditions were linked to the modification of the established production sites? Thirdly, is there a breach of contract here? Fourthly, can I get a copy of the contract of 18 December 2015 between SNCB and the consortium Bombardier-Alstom in which everything should be made in Bruges, from start to finish?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-17-54-commissie-ic667x.u40	Dear colleague, on 17 December 2015, SNCB and Bombardier- Alstom signed a contract regarding the purchase of the M7 train. That contract includes an initial order of 445 carriages for an amount of EUR 1.3 billion. The first M7 carriages were to be delivered from September 2018. The framework contract provides for a possible delivery of 1 362 vehicles, totalling EUR 3.3 billion. SNCB is not obliged to order those extra carriages. The minimum quantity to be ordered corresponds to the first order. The first order is divided as follows.First, Alstom will build the 90 motorised headcars.Second, Bombardier is responsible for the 355 non-motorised carriages. In relation to production localization, a distinction should be made between legal obligations and legally non-binding declarations made by the management of Bombardier. As far as the contract is concerned, public procurement legislation generally does not allow a specific location for production to be determined. However, the M7 contract contains an annex containing a list of sites and subcontractors recognised by SNCB. The plant in Bruges is the only one included for various operations on the 355 carriages, such as assembly, painting, installation of systems, installation of wheelsets, static series tests and final control. This provision can only be amended by an agreement of SNCB. In the event of refusal, SNCB must justify its decision, for example on the basis of a quality audit, a lack of references, etc. I would stress that SNCB has not yet received this question. If this question were to be received, SNCB would have to reply within 30 days. Bombardier's Brugse factory can deliver the required quality, thanks, among other things, to the experience of the staff through the construction of the M6 trains in the 2000s. As a guardian minister, I have asked SNCB to be the difficult customer she is used to being. There can be no encore in terms of quality. We will therefore look very closely at the quality requirements if we get the demand of Bombardier. SNCB's customers are entitled to high-quality trains. Secondly, there is the Bombardier statement. At various times, Bombardier declared by management that the M7 will be built in Bruges. This statement was made before the conclusion of the contract, at the time of the conclusion of the contract, and also after the first reports of the Bombardier's plans became known. The official press release by Bombardier-Alstom, which was sent on the day of the conclusion of the contract, refers to the production in Bruges. During a meeting at the beginning of this year in the cabinet of my colleague Mr Peeters, it was confirmed once again that the M7 will be built in Bruges. We can only conclude that it seems that Bombardier is breaking his word. I regret this as a minister and as a human being. Last week a constructive meeting with the trade unions of Bombardier Bruges took place. The federal and Flemish governments are determined to fight together with the trade unions for the survival of the jobs in Bruges. During the meetings, the Flemish Government mentioned a number of slopes, including the De Lijn contract. Bombardier stated that the Bruges factory also has fixed costs and therefore needs a certain volume. In that respect, the federal government has done its part with the decision of the new trains. It is clear that any order in Belgium or abroad for which the Bruges factory can be used increases the chances of work in Bruges. For our part, we have already started a legal analysis of the possibilities offered by the contract on the basis of the current state of affairs. Finally, a consultation with the Bombardier Summit is scheduled later in May 2017. As promised, after that meeting, we will once again sit around the table with the trade unions, who, despite the possible developments in the dossier, stand out thanks to their dignified and constructive attitude.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-17-54-commissie-ic667x.u41	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your enlightening answer. However, I would like to ask whether it is true that Bombardier has not yet asked SNCB to do the production in another site, although we constantly read it in the media. Whether or not there is a breach of contract is currently being investigated by the legal analysis, if I understand correctly.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-17-54-commissie-ic667x.u42	Mr Minister, in a press release dated 2 May, following your meeting with the authorities of Charleroi airport, you announced the creation of a stop at Ransart on the Charleroi-Ottignies railway line, in order to connect the Brussels airport to Charleroi airport, as well as the cities of Leuven, Malines, etc. This project would allow passengers from various backgrounds to access Charleroi Airport, especially since, according to the study plans, this station would be approximately 3.5 kilometres by bus from the airport. At present, to take the train, passengers are invited to take the TEC bus to Charleroi train station and then the train. This is a relatively large loss of time and load, which does not favour flights from Charleroi airport. As a result, you are preparing to analyse the feasibility and cost of setting up this Ransart-BSCA stop point (Brussels South Charleroi Airport) and the modification of the offer of trains in terms of frequency, cities served, etc., on line 140 Louvain-Charleroi, which crosses the Brussels-Luxembourg axis in Ottignies. In addition, the Société régionale Wallonne du Transport (SRWT) would be associated with the project from the perspective of autonomous shuttles and/or buses to connect the stopping point to the airport. When you read the newspapers today, you will have noticed that some articles mentioned an interest in the town of Fleurus, located right next to Ransart, where work would be less important, since the station of Fleurus already exists. Minister, can you give us the agenda for an analysis of the feasibility of the project for the station in Ransart and possibly for the station in Fleurus? Are you going to consult with the riparian committees for their views on this line? Could you give us more details about this very interesting project for the development of the airport and the region?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-17-54-commissie-ic667x.u43	Following my recent visit to Charleroi airport and the meeting with CEO Jean-Jacques Cloquet, I wanted to consider the possibility of connecting Charleroi airport with an existing rail offer located near the airport. The objective is twofold: to help improve the daily lives of travellers who choose to take off from Charleroi and participate in an improvement of mobility around the airport. This would also offer many opportunities for access to the growing BSCA (Brussels South Charleroi Airport). Contrary to what had been envisaged in the past where only the scenario of a station under airport, a very expensive project, was envisaged, I wanted to support a pragmatic and realistic approach. Various scenarios are envisaged, including the stop at Ransart, located on the existing Ottignies-Charleroi line (line 140). Based on the principle that investments should be targeted and optimised, while maximizing the use of existing infrastructure, I spoke to the CEOs of Infrabel and SNCB and asked them to look into this issue, in order to study the various possibilities and return to me in the next few weeks. As Mr. Cloquet told me at the time, the wish would be to stop the Brussels South Airport style on the line and make a connection with an automated vehicle in its own site, people mover. I know that this project could take two to five years, the time to develop the project, to expropriate, etc., but we are studying all the opportunities, the will being to move as quickly as possible towards a rail offer at one place or another, even to adapt it over time to this people mover technology. With Infrabel and SNCB, we study first the supply of trains, the technical realization and then we will make a working group with all the actors concerned, first and foremost with BSCA. Then we'll see who will join us.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-17-54-commissie-ic667x.u44	Minister, thank you for your answers. Attention must be paid to all opportunities. The two nearest stations are Ransart and Fleurus, but you must have in mind all the potential for development and therefore all that is possible. Fleurus is a relatively well developed station, easily convertible at a cost that would not be too high. Ransart is a stop point, so it will have to be developed, with more investment. This is for the short term. When you talk about a people mover, we're in the middle term. Fleurus, on the other hand, is an area with a dense population, so with expropriations that are likely to be costly. It would probably be cheaper in Ransart. It seems to me that the point is to look at the file in its entirety, with the residents, the municipal authorities and the public transport companies. It will also be necessary to study this project in the short, medium and possibly long term, in order not to make too costly investments. We know the accounts and balance sheets of the SNCB and of the Infrabel.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-17-54-commissie-ic667x.u45	Minister, some time ago, the newspaper De Tijd reported a fine of EUR 1.78 million imposed by the Belgian reporting authorities on five companies that allegedly committed cartels in the procurement of rail infrastructure works by network operator Infrabel. The companies concerned have agreed since 2010 for each tender which company would win. This is an illegal practice that was made possible partly because some of Infrabel's employees passed on sensitive information. These included ongoing and future investment plans, unofficial information on future calls for tenders, project budgets and even competitors' prices. The investigation started in 2013, after one of those companies confessed to the deal. Two other companies also went to the reporting authority later. They will therefore receive a reduction in their fines. In fact, one of these companies is totally exempted. The companies accepted the proposed settlement. Firstly, the role of some of Infrabel's employees is at least striking. Was there any internal investigation into this? What were the results of the investigation? Were sanctions imposed on the employees involved? Secondly, Infrabel would have taken measures in the meantime to avoid the too close links between employees and suppliers. Can you explain these measures? Thirdly, a settlement was reached with the companies. Is it possible to initiate legal proceedings in addition to that settlement and will Infrabel proceed to legal proceedings? Why is that, or why not? Fourthly, do you see similarities between this case and the questionable way of contracting on TUC rail that came to light after the railway accident in Saint-Georges-sur-Meuse last year? Finally, is this the first time that there has been cartels in the procurement of railway works by Infrabel, or has this happened in the past? If so, when?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-17-54-commissie-ic667x.u46	Mr President, Minister, on 2 May we heard the Belgian Competition Authority's condemnation of five companies (ABB Ltd, Siemens AG, Karpimos SA, Schneider Electric SE and Sécheron SA) because of the setting of a price agreement; they distributed Infrabel's public procurement contracts. Siemens would have taken the initiative, one of his collaborators being responsible for keeping the cartel in practice. This price agreement is linked to a more general problem: many of the work that was previously done within Infrabel and SNCB is now outsourced and delegated to the private sector, allegedly in the interests of greater efficiency and lower cost. A railwayman told us about the situation. Like many of his colleagues, he complained of his company being destroyed by fire. All the tasks that were previously carried out in a workshop are done by the private sector; this is no less expensive and poorly done. This only allows the government to be told that staff are being reduced. Tasks such as the cleaning of trains and stations, work on tracks or signalling work are mentioned. There is a reduction in staff, an increase in pressure on workers, but at the same time some of the tasks assigned to SNCB and Infrabel are being privatized. The railway workers realize that often the work is badly done because the subcontractors do not know the work or safety instructions. The railway staff must then control the work or even correct it. In addition, these private subcontractors agree on prices in order to offer higher offers. This situation further exacerbates the problem and the cost. Minister, do you have an estimate of the cost of this cartel? What is the economic damage? What initiatives will you take – if you take any! – to avoid that Infrabel or SNCB are still affected by this kind of practice? In addition to the sanction taken by the supervisory authority, are you going to take action against existing contracts or a commitment not to enter into a contract with these companies dealing with Infrabel or SNCB? Finally, is it possible that other cartels similar to those affecting Infrabel or SNCB exist?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-17-54-commissie-ic667x.u47	Dear fellow Members, at the beginning of February 2015, Infrabel launched an internal administrative investigation and called on its 12 staff, involved in the assignment, for an interrogation, in the presence of Infrabel's compliance officer and lawyers. The interviews showed that a person had transmitted confidential price information. He has received a double disciplinary sanction: the suspension from his post and his salary for three months, as well as a change in his place of employment. In the course of 2015, the Infrabel Management Committee made the following decisions in order to avoid too close links between its employees and suppliers. Firstly, the separation of the purchasing function from the operational services within the Infrabel organisational structure. Secondly, the creation of a centralised business partner model within Infrabel, based on clearly defined tasks and competences, for drawing up a code of conduct on contracts intended for staff involved in public procurement, which will be divided internally and on which a awareness campaign will be launched. It was also decided at the beginning of 2017 to sensitise the Infrabel Work Service within the I-FBA 5 Procurement service. On 1 July 2014, Infrabel filed a complaint with the Prosecutor of the King of Brussels for fraud in a public contract. Apart from that criminal complaint, Infrabel will seek to recover its damage through civil proceedings in order to recover the difference between the price it had to pay without a cartel and the price it actually paid from the companies concerned. Both dossiers, the dossier in question and the procedure surrounding Saint-Georges-sur-Meuse are different. The order procedure for Saint-Georges-sur-Meuse does not involve cartels. The way TUC Rail placed the assignment at the time was by no means questionable. It is the first time that a competition authority has established cartels by companies in the procurement of railway works by Infrabel. The cartel phenomenon can, of course, affect many sectors and thus affect any company – including SNCB. The latter's procurement department, aware of this issue, is attentive to the indices of this type of fraud which may appear through offers. Specific information has also been provided by the legal service of SNCB to the attention of the procurement department.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-17-54-commissie-ic667x.u48	Thank you, Minister, for your comprehensive reply. I have one question because at the end of your answer I may not have been paying very close attention. I note that it is the first time cartel formation has been established. Is that correct?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-17-54-commissie-ic667x.u49	That's right.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-17-54-commissie-ic667x.u50	Minister, thank you for your answer. I did not obtain any information regarding the estimated amount of the damage. Has an evaluation been conducted? No, at least for now. I guess if Infrabel tries to recover the lost money, we'll decide to make one. On the other hand, you say that information exists within SNCB. I wonder why the same changes were not applied in the procedure as in the case of Infrabel. Finally, I can only note once again that this phenomenon is amplified by the trend observed in Infrabel and SNCB, which consists of outsourcing more and more tasks. Of course, the more we outsource, the greater the risk of such disappointments. That is why I think it would be wise for these two companies to take another switch.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-17-54-commissie-ic667x.u51	Mr President, Minister, in principle I am asking questions like this and the following in writing, but in view of the fact that I have found that sometimes it takes six months for me to receive an answer, I would like to put them orally. This question is about a fairly large region with quite a lot of potential. A number of years ago it was examined whether the GEN could be extended east to the station of Aarschot. For this purpose, the bend of Leuven was made. An infrastructure project that cost a lot of money. The justification was that the eastern edge of the Flemish window had to be extended, given the congestion on the E314 and the E40. For similar reasons, the Western expansion to Zottegem was stopped and realized. Maybe the place of the former railroad boss had something to do with that? An extension of the GEN would ensure that travellers from the Heist-op-den-Berg region get to Brussels faster. The current infrastructure creates the necessary constraints. The new transport plan of December 2017 does not include additional P-trains to this region. I think this is a missed opportunity. In the past, the region also had a much better connection with the Coast. This was lost in the previous transport plan of 2015. I'll come to my questions. Firstly, have you been able to identify the reasons for the decision not to stop Aarschot as a GEN station? I didn't find this anywhere. Those plans were once on the table, but I can't find any justification for the deletion. For the record, I would like to say that this is from before your time. You are absolutely not politically responsible for this. Secondly, how much did the infrastructure at the turn of Leuven cost? How many trains make effective use of this per day? Why were there no additional P-trains inserted in the Transport Plan 2017? I was once told that this is because of the fact that the path from Hasselt to the airport has to be built. When I look at the timetable, I find that absolutely no longer justified. Are pistes being investigated to improve the rail supply in this region in a subsequent transport plan?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-17-54-commissie-ic667x.u52	The cost of the connecting bend L35-36 on the outskirts of Leuven is estimated at EUR 36.9 million. A total of 30 SNCB's passenger trains run on this Leuven bend per working day. SNCB cannot put in an additional P-train because the North-South connection is almost saturated. However, the analyses carried out under the transport plan in force in December 2017 have led to two additional improvements for the region. First, there is the doubling of the frequency on Saturday of the IC08 on the link Antwerp-Mechelen-Brussels Airport-Zaventem-Leuven-Hasselt on the section between Leuven and Hasselt. Secondly, there is the deployment of an additional P train on Sunday evening for the purpose of student transport. In addition to the doubling of the student train Hamont-Leuven via Lier and Mechelen, a new train is also put in between Hasselt and Genk, which runs through Diest and Aarschot. On the line between Aarschot and Lier a good distribution is sought so that in the node Heist-op-den-Berg the connections with De Lijn can be improved.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-17-54-commissie-ic667x.u53	Thank you, Minister. Were they 30 or 40 trains? I haven't been able to write that down.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-17-54-commissie-ic667x.u54	30.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-17-54-commissie-ic667x.u55	Okay, I take note of your answer. In view of the timetable, I will look at which lanes may still be available. What you said about the student train checks out. I noticed that too, but I forgot to mention it. In fact, when one sets up the radio in the morning, one hears the congestion messages in that region. I believe that investment in public transport can reduce congestion there.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-17-54-commissie-ic667x.u56	Since Question No 5, by Mr De Vries (H- Mr Demon (PPE). - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by thanking the President-in-Office of the Council and the President-in-Office of the Council.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-17-54-commissie-ic667x.u57	Mr President, Minister, I will be very brief. After all, my question is a yes-no question. There are rumours circulating, which have also been heard by me and my colleague here in the Chamber and mayor of Kapellen and about which I have seen press releases, namely that the Kapellen station would or would not close. I replied to those rumors that a closure would surprise me very much, given that the transport plan on line 12 will once again have more trains. However, I shall put the question very specifically to you. Are there effective plans to close the Kapellen station or not?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-17-54-commissie-ic667x.u58	Mr President, Mr Geerts, SNCB informs me that it has no intention of reducing, stopping or closing the Kapellen counter. In view of the moratorium, that is not the case either. On the contrary, SNCB will expand its offer on line 12 Antwerp-Essen-Roosendaal with an additional stop train from December 2017. In fact, SNCB informed the local elected representatives during its road show in Antwerp on 19 April 2017. So that's good news.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-17-54-commissie-ic667x.u59	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your reply. Mr van den Bergh, I might have left when the question was dealt with, otherwise I would not have asked them here.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-17-54-commissie-ic667x.u60	I don't remember.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-17-54-commissie-ic667x.u61	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Van den Bergh's 18329 was converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-17-54-commissie-ic667x.u62	Mr President, Minister, on average, there are about 15 accidents every year with a phantom driver on the highway. The risk of an accident is highest in March. Such accidents are ten times more fatal than the average motorway accidents. Alcohol, neglect or suicide are often the basis of such accidents. According to the Belgian Institute for Road Safety (IBSR), accidents involving a phantom driver account for only 0.4% of all motor vehicle accidents, but cause 3.7% of those killed. As a reminder, the number of accidents is spread over the year, but there is still a peak in March: 11% of accidents with a phantom driver take place that month, especially during weekend nights. Minister, how many ghost drivers have been involved in highway accidents in the last three years by Region? To the extent that provisional figures are already available in 2017, among these accidents, how many injuries and fatalities have been recorded? What are the penalties for the perpetrators? Have any initiatives been taken in recent years to address the problem of phantom drivers? If so, which ones? Are there other plans in the future to raise public awareness?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-17-54-commissie-ic667x.u63	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have here a picture which will be given to you and which, by region, takes up the number of motorway accidents involving a phantom driver and the number of victims killed and injured in these accidents. Accidents involving a phantom driver are regarded as accidents in which at least one of the drivers is travelling in the opposite direction. Official figures for 2016 are not yet known and no even provisional figures are currently available for 2017. Driving counter-sense on a highway is a fourth-degree offence. To date, a fine of 40 to 500 euros to be multiplied by eight for the additional decimes, i.e. a fine of 320 to 4,000 euros, may be imposed by the judge who must also order the deprivation of the right to drive a motor vehicle for a period of between eight days and five years. In the event of a recidivism, the fine shall be doubled. With regard to general measures to prevent drivers from countering motorways, solutions to combat phantom drivers are mainly infrastructural: the design and construction of the exit, lighting, special signs and markings on the ground. In addition, the immediate dissemination of information is of great importance, either by radio control by interrupting other emissions illico presto, or by GPS systems or other systems such as the Coyote system that reveal a message on the display in the vehicle. Both infrastructure equipment and road information centres, in collaboration with the police, are regional.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-17-54-commissie-ic667x.u64	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Jean-Jacques Flahaux's 18334 was converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-17-54-commissie-ic667x.u65	Minister, in June 2016, you announced that you would be taking an instruction to clarify wind standards in the near future. At our commission meeting in October 2016, you announced that you had requested an audit from DGTA to verify whether or not the use of Runway 01 during the first days of October had been abusive. Since then, we have remained unheard of this audit and clarification, despite various reports of manipulations by Belgocontrol, of wind standards and of the incorrect application of ministerial instructions to Belgocontrol without it being able to modify or negotiate them. According to various sources, this audit has actually been completed for several months. As you know, Parliament has a role of controlling the executive, with the aim of representing the citizens of all regions. As a parliamentarian, I am very often contacted by the residents of eastern Brussels and Walloon Brabant about the important use of Runway 01 for landings. I'm also personally a victim. In order to comply with the legal provisions on transparency in administrative matters and/or the legal provisions on access to environmental information, I would like you to transmit to all parliamentarians this audit report and your instruction to clarify wind standards. You will understand, Minister, that the misuse of Runway 01 causes, in the words of the judge of the Brussels Court of Appeal in her judgment of 31 March 2017, "serious damage" to the residents and that, therefore, if you were in possession of documents that prove or abound in the sense that manipulations of wind standards have taken place in recent years, it would be totally unacceptable for us not to be kept informed of this. Indeed, it would be unacceptable for Belgocontrol to misuse Runway 01, even though you are well aware that it is not part of the PRS and that its use has been condemned many times by the courts. Minister, is the audit of Belgocontrol completed by DGTA, as my sources indicate? If so, could you pass it on to the members of the federal parliament?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-17-54-commissie-ic667x.u66	I confirm that I have received from DGTA a condensed report on the use of runways at Brussels-National airport from 2 to 10 October. This document is countersigned by DG Air Transport and the Chairman of the SPF. This report was received by my office on 16 May, yesterday. I am currently studying this text with my team in order to make my possible remarks. Interim reports had been exchanged in the three phases of this audit mission: data collection for the period from 2 to 10 October, analysis of these data and recommendations following this analysis. As I promised, and having nothing to hide, this audit will be presented to the House Infrastructure Committee when it is set on its agenda. I would therefore refer you to this meeting which will take place shortly. I hope that the hearing of the representatives of DGTA and Belgocontrol and the reading of this report will shed light on the events that have taken place during the period from 2 to 10 October 2016.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-17-54-commissie-ic667x.u67	Minister, thank you for your answers. It's May 17, I couldn't find a better opportunity to ask you this question! We will be attentive to your analysis of this report and the comments that will be included.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-17-54-commissie-ic667x.u68	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Calomne converted 18351 into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-17-54-commissie-ic667x.u69	Mr President, Minister, the Walloon Minister for Mobility has recently spoken in favour of modulation of the kilometric tax to reduce congestion on Belgian roads. I quote: "I hope that Brussels will review its kilometric tax. The objective is to make the use of motorways for off-peak trucks cheaper or even free of charge and to make it more expensive during heavy traffic hours. It would be of great interest for mobility (...). I will officially make this request to Pascal Smet, Minister of Mobility of Brussels, at the next Executive Committee of the Ministers of Mobility. I will also talk to the other Ministers for Mobility, because the measure could also be of interest to Flanders." In addition, the Minister also called for carpooling cars to have access to the bus band on the motorway, in particular between Wavre and Brussels. However, he admitted, and I quote him again, that "this requires amending the Road Traffic Code. That is why I have asked the Federal Minister for Mobility, François Bellot. We will discuss this at the next meeting of the Executive Committee of Ministers for Mobility." In this regard, Minister, what is your position with respect to the two proposals made by the Walloon Minister? Do you think these projects are relevant and feasible? What answers should be provided at the next meeting of the Executive Committee of Ministers for Mobility? More broadly, what is the state of thinking within the federal government to promote carpooling? Are specific measures planned in the short and medium term? Are synergies already envisaged, in partnership with the relevant regional services?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-17-54-commissie-ic667x.u70	Mr President, Mr Calomne, these two points will be discussed in the Executive Committee of Ministers for Mobility in the near future. I will relay to you the decisions taken after this ministerial coordination. Let's get to the kilometric toll first! This is a regional competence. I don't have to say anything about these things. With respect to carpooling, I made the regulatory amendments during the last revision of the Highway Traffic Code on July 21, 2016. I have anticipated, apparently the regional governments are not informed or have not been attentive in reading the Monitor. Since then, there has been a possibility for road managers to assign the emergency stop band to peak hour traffic. In order for carpooling cars to be allowed to travel on the traffic band reserved on the motorway, a pragmatic solution, not requiring a change in regulations, might be to no longer signal the bus traffic band by means of the signal F17 "bus band", but by means of a signal C5 "no access for drivers of motor vehicles with more than two wheels and motorcycles with side-car", supplemented by an additional signal, except for 2+ or 3+. In this way, the measure referred to by the Walloon Minister of Mobility can already be implemented by road managers, namely the Regions, on motorways, since vehicles occupied by at least two or three persons, as the case may be, including carpooling vehicles, regular public service vehicles, public transport vehicles and side-car-free motorcycles, may travel on the emergency stopping band provided that adequate signs are provided. In concrete terms, the inquiry on this subject by the Walloon regional minister is already anticipated, since this project exists since July 2016, but is unknown to road managers, also at ministerial level.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-17-54-commissie-ic667x.u71	Minister, thank you for your pragmatic and constructive response. You've already anticipated the Walloon government's demands. I hope that you will have the opportunity to transmit them to him at the next Ministerial Executive Committee on Mobility.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-17-54-commissie-ic667x.u72	Questions Nos 18368 and 18371 by Mr Cheron, as well as questions Nos 18476, 18477, 18478 and 18479 by Mrs Poncelet and Nos 18540 and 18542 by Mr Poncelet. Van den Bergh are transformed into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-17-54-commissie-ic667x.u73	Mr President, Minister, according to an article in the press in early May, there is an increasing number of lost items on trains. In 2016, the country recorded 32,556 lost objects. Most of the time, these lost objects are of great importance to their owners. People who have already forgotten in the train of precious or sentimental objects measure the importance of the 18 "lost objects" deposits available to SNCB throughout the country. I'd like to ask you about that. What is the procedure used by SNCB when an object is declared lost or is found? How is a verification performed to ensure that the person is actually the owner of the recovered object? Can you give us an overview of the number of items recovered by their owners from 2014 to date? What happens to the unrecovered? Are they destroyed or offered to associations? What is the cost of managing these deposits? What initiatives does SNCB take if the owner of a found object is known but does not come looking for it? Do you see SNCB taking a proactive attitude in looking for these owners? Has SNCB ever received complaints about the Lost Objects Service from 2014 to date? If so, what are the most frequent types of complaints?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-17-54-commissie-ic667x.u74	Dear colleague, if a customer loses or forgets anything on a train or train station, he or she must report it as soon as possible via the counter or the form available on the website www.letrain.be. SNCB maintains a computerized register of objects found/lost by travellers or found and brought to the station counters by SNCB personnel, train attendants, station sub-heads, maintenance agents and by travellers. In addition, requests for lost objects are also recorded. Daily, station agents search on the basis of the objects present in their station and try to identify the owner. If the latter is found, the station will contact him by telephone, e-mail or mail in order to arrange the return. The customer has a choice between either picking it up at the station where it is, or asking SNCB to send it to the nearest station, for example. When the object is returned to its owner, an adversarial verification of the object found is carried out by asking, for example, what the contents of the suitcase are or by checking the personal data if they are present on or in the object. Here is an overview of the number of items recovered from 2014 to date: 13 578 out of 35 664 in 2014, i.e. 38%; 11 976 out of 33 569 in 2015, i.e. 35.68 %; 11 074 out of 32 556 in 2016, i.e. 34.02 %. Pursuant to the Act of 6 April 2010, SNCB shall keep the objects found at least fifty days. Once that period has expired, if the object has not been recovered or if the owner could not be identified, SNCB shall hand it over to a company with which a recycling contract has been concluded. For now, this is the ASBL Les Petits Nothingis. This service is provided free of charge by the recycling company. Perishable foodstuffs, as well as goods which are likely to deteriorate rapidly or which are harmful to hygiene or public health, shall be destroyed. SNCB assures me that it is making the necessary efforts to identify the legitimate owners of the lost objects and tries to inform them before the 50-day deadline expires. If the owner's coordinates are present in the object found, the object is systematically contacted. The most frequent complaints relate to undiscovered objects or damage to returned objects. In 2014, there were 17 reactions; 48 in 2015 and 30 in 2016.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-17-54-commissie-ic667x.u75	Minister, thank you for all these clarifications.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-17-54-commissie-ic667x.u76	Joined Questions No 18369 and No 18370 by Mr Marcel Cheron, No 18528 by Mrs Sabien Lahaye-Battheu and No 18532 by Mrs Inez De Coninck and Question No 18403 by Mrs Catherine Fonck are transformed into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-17-54-commissie-ic667x.u77	Mr President, Minister, the social agreement with the unions provided for a minimum number of staff at Infrabel and SNCB. However, this memorandum of understanding on staff is not respected. For fiscal year 2016 alone, the average number of full-time equivalents is down by 1,458 positions, or 4.8% of railway personnel. This number of good jobs lost in 2016 corresponds to the equivalent of jobs lost following the closure of Caterpillar Gosselies. Unfortunately, it would seem that the CGSP-Cheminots' estimates of a loss of 6,000 jobs by 2020 are confirmed. Minister, can you confirm this information? Are you not afraid of a shortage of personnel for the practical operation of the railways?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-17-54-commissie-ic667x.u78	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am not in a position to state or overturn the information you provide me on the evolution of the volume of employment. This is a matter for the operational decisions of the companies, in which the policy does not interfere. However, I can tell you that digitalisation and modernisation have an impact on the nature and number of jobs. This is the case in railway undertakings, in public services or in the private sector. Finally, I would point out that SNCB and Infrabel must be able to ensure their respective roles under the best conditions with, of course, a maximum level of safety.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-17-54-commissie-ic667x.u79	Minister, do you know what comes to mind when I hear you? I want to say, "Madame Galant, get out of this body!" We find old demons, where, systematically, when we asked a question, we were referred to the management bodies. I think as a minister, you have a full responsibility. If you ask for the numbers and they are not given to you, objectively, it worries me all the more. I am therefore totally dissatisfied with the answer you have given me. I would like you to ask for the figures, so that we can have a clear answer on this element which I believe is essential for the operation of the railway undertaking. This requires staff. Tell me you don't have the numbers...
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-17-54-commissie-ic667x.u80	I don't have them.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-17-54-commissie-ic667x.u81	Well, you have to ask for them and provide them to us! Or there's a problem. If even the minister...
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-17-54-commissie-ic667x.u82	It's not something we get in twenty-four hours, Mrs. Grovonius. The question is from Friday.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-17-54-commissie-ic667x.u83	The question has been filed since 11 May. I'll come back to you at the next question-and-answer session.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-17-54-commissie-ic667x.u84	We interviewed both companies. We interviewed HR and they gave me that answer. What do you want me to say? They submitted a document saying that they did not have the figures to date and that it would require some research. There are full-time equivalents, part-time, people on leave.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-17-54-commissie-ic667x.u85	Perfect. I'll re-ask a question and come back to you. Know that the question will come back! Don't let me know next time we've only had the question for two days!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-17-54-commissie-ic667x.u86	I can only tell you that.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-17-54-commissie-ic667x.u87	Yeah, all right. But now you know that. I will introduce a new question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-17-54-commissie-ic667x.u88	Are you aware that six people spent the night working on the 65 issues that are on the agenda today, because the questions come at the last moment? I can only tell you that. There are people who spend nights answering questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-17-54-commissie-ic667x.u89	Just like people spend their nights writing, minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-17-54-commissie-ic667x.u90	Yes. I'll do whatever you want, but at some point, I don't know. I have no problem with you anticipating the question. I do not complain, it is normal, it is the parliamentary game, but there are currently ten full-time equivalents that answer the questions asked to the Minister of Mobility. Companies plus the firm, but it's normal. I don't think that's abnormal. But when you ask questions of this nature, which require work, HR tells me that they do not know how to respond to this request within a very short time. This is not about not wanting to answer. I'd like to answer that. Ask the question tomorrow. At the next meeting, we will try to have all the elements.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-17-54-commissie-ic667x.u91	Minister, I think we can agree that I will introduce the question quickly so that you have time to answer it in the most precise way possible. Nevertheless, I would nevertheless like to stress my concern. Indeed, if you tell me that these figures are not known, and not monitored almost on a day-to-day basis by Infrabel and the SNCB, I want to tell you: where are we going?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-17-54-commissie-ic667x.u92	(...) It is important to know that when questions come up, sometimes the day before or the day before, that you then arrive here, and that a large part of the questions are turned into written or postponed questions, people have nevertheless spent their night answering them! I respect the workers!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-17-54-commissie-ic667x.u93	That's not the point we're supposed to be discussing anymore, I think. Tomorrow we will have a new question and wait for the answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-17-54-commissie-ic667x.u94	Mr Minister, at the beginning of the month, the National Joint Commission, which brings together employers and rail unions, approved the plan to organise social elections within the SNCB Group. The first election will therefore take place in December 2018. The annual allocation of HR Rail provides for €1.2 million allocated by the government for social dialogue. This amount was one of the means granted to HR Rail prior to the government's decision to impose the social elections by law of 3 August 2016. The organization of these elections will have a cost. Railway officials know that too. A first estimate was made. For the administrative management and organisation of the compositions of the offices, it is necessary to provide around 600,000 euros. This amount does not take into account the paid time for officers to travel to the various polling stations in order to exercise their right to vote. Minister, are you planning, for the years of social elections, a necessary increase in the allocation of social dialogue so that these elections can be carried out?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-17-54-commissie-ic667x.u95	Democracy has a price. At the communal level, during the election years, a budget must be set aside for the holding of elections in good conditions. The same will apply at rail level. The legal basis for organizing social elections for the first time in some of the joint bodies active in the Belgian railways is the law of 3 August 2016. This decision was taken by the legislator without affecting the budgetary resources allocated to each of the three companies: Infrabel, SNCB and HR Rail, of the order of 2.9 billion over the year. This means that, in addition to the budgetary means now provided for, the organisation of these social elections does not give rise to any additional resources. The cost of these social elections for HR Rail will be borne by the SNCB and infrabel since, apart from the allocation, the operating costs of HR Rail are borne by Infrabel and SNCB. I have no doubt that the men and women who are going to organise this exercise of trade union democracy will be able to remain reasonable and pragmatic so that the costs are not unnecessarily high. I would add that I met with the trade union organisations this morning and that things have changed well in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-17-54-commissie-ic667x.u96	Minister, thank you for your answers. I am a little sceptical when there are no plans for additional resources to organise these elections, although there is every indication that they will have a significant cost. The estimate does not come from the unions, but from the officials of the railways. I hear there has been a meeting with the trade unions which has enabled positive developments on this issue. I will not fail to take all the useful information on this issue and I will come back to you if problems remain.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-17-54-commissie-ic667x.u97	Minister, the government agreement stipulates that this government will introduce the guaranteed services to the railways. Many questions have already been asked about this in Parliament. We have also organised a hearing on this subject. You have already announced a number of times that you would normally come up with a plan by the summer, after you had established that no proposal was made internally after social consultation. Last week, you presented to the Council of Ministers your plan on guaranteed services. This is based on the freedom of strike. He's not threatened. On the other hand, this plan also guarantees freedom to work. SNCB and Infrabel staff will have to report four days before a strike whether or not they want to work. On this basis, SNCB will then draw up an alternative transport plan for that strike day, so that the passenger knows at least 24 hours in advance whether or not his or her train will run. In the meantime, the proposal in the Council of Ministers has provoked a lot of comments. What is the exact state of affairs today? What's the further timing? When can you come to Parliament with the text? Can you outline the lines of the text again? What are the conclusions of the investigation concerning the different scenarios?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-17-54-commissie-ic667x.u98	Minister, the debate on minimum services has been going on here for years. In my files, you have put forward proposals from the 2003-2007 legislature. So the file has been going on for a while and is known in this house. The different views, and the doubts about them, are also well known. On 12 May I read that you submitted a draft to the Council of Ministers. For years, our position has been that we are not in favour of a minimum service, but we are in favour of a maximum service for thousands of commuters and occasional travellers. In order for something to succeed, social dialogue is very important to us. A unilateral introduction will be counterproductive. I went to look over the wall, to France, Germany and Italy. We also have studies from other study services there, which show that there are more and longer strikes. The legislation in France in 2007, the 2013 review clearly states that the number of conflicts has not been reduced. The government's talking about guaranteed services. However, the question is to what extent this is guaranteed. A full platform is dangerous for passengers and staff. Who will take responsibility for this? What if a train is full? Will it stop at another station or not? These are still fundamental issues which make me sceptical, but the debate will continue as soon as we can read the texts. Mr Minister, I have the following questions. A first question concerns the timing of the minimum service and its announcement. Two weeks ago, you were a guest of several trade unions on the National Joint Committee. You praised the syndical elections and the good cooperation, but the next day people were told that a draft had been tabled and they were wondering why you had not said anything about it the day before. I know that you have had another meeting with the syndicates today and I suspect that they have asked you the same question. Secondly, are there any proposals from Infrabel and SNCB already? We have received a table of the various scenarios in this committee. To what extent will your proposal respond? How are we supposed to see that? On this basis, do these companies consider that to be practicable or should it be investigated? Who has the right to public transport on that day and who doesn't? Who will decide which trains run and which ones won't? There are also questions about line knowledge, material, and so on. Which stops will be operated and which will not? Do people from Heist-op-den-Berg and Poperinge have as much right as people from Antwerp? That is always a fundamental question. Perhaps we should ask Mrs Lahaye-Battheu about Bruges, but for me the fundamental question is always whether Heist-op-den-Berg people have the same rights as people of Antwerp. Finally, what is the further timing in this dossier?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-17-54-commissie-ic667x.u99	Mr President, Mr Minister, as I have said on many occasions and I repeat, the minimum service remains above all a way of weakening the unions and their representativeness by bypassing them and isolating the workers. This is a way of tackling the right of workers to strike by opposing them to users. It is a decoy that aims to make public opinion believe that nothing existed before when strict procedures were already in place for strikes. These procedures had already been tightened by this government, in particular through the systematic recourse to bailiffs who intervene on the pickets of strike and petitions to the courts in the event of collective disputes. It's a decoy for users because you're trying to make it look like strikes are unpredictable, which is wrong. Wild strikes are, but how does your project address this problem? I always wonder! Will users never be caught off guard again? As far as I'm concerned, I don't think so. To require workers to declare their intention individually and in advance will only reinforce the social dialogue. To punish them if they change their mind is an infringement of their freedom to strike. With this project, unions will no longer be the essential partner of management. By creating lists of workers who will strike, the government creates a dangerous precedent. It is the very principle of union representation that protects with one voice all the workers affected. I'll call him back, we don't strike for pleasure! The best of the strikes is the one that does not take place, the one that must not be done because the concertation has worked. The strike is, for the workers, the last way to be heard! Now, with this project, you delete it. Minister, allow me to ask you the following questions: How will previous procedures be improved by your bill? Will this bill help to avoid wild strikes in the future that take the users out of control? If so, can you guarantee it? Finally, you said you met with the unions. I assume that on that occasion this point was raised. What were the elements that were the subject of your discussions? What is the latest information available to you following this meeting?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-17-54-commissie-ic667x.u100	Mr. Chair, Minister, you have decided to submit to the government a draft bill on minimum service to SNCB. This text would require railway workers to specify whether or not they will participate in a union action, four working days before the date of the scheduled strike. The purpose of this request would be to know the number of staff present and should therefore, in your opinion, allow a minimum service to be arranged. However, several unions have questions about the feasibility of this project, which seems to be difficult to implement effectively. How would a small number of personnel and machines ensure an efficient service for users? On the contrary, this will create new security problems and significant inconveniences. It is enough to see in France the impact of this type of measure during the strike last June: tensions between priority users and others, overloaded trains, risks to safety, and I am passing by. It seems obvious that when the striker rate becomes high, the impact on traffic is irremediable. All the more so on a rail network such as the one in Belgium where most lines are interdependent. When considering the implementation of this idea, it is clear that this measure is not intended to assist commuters or other users of the public service, but to make it even more difficult for workers to use the right to strike. The observation made by the social partners is simple: the only solution to avoid trade union grunts is to call into question the three billion euro savings to the SNCB and to establish an effective and relevant social dialogue that will enable workers to be heard. Minister, allow me to question you. How can you rely on a "continuity of service" of 80-90% if railway workers are on strike? How could a small number of railway workers provide efficient service to commuters in strike time? How will you deal with safety problems, overloaded trains, tensions between users and railway operators when setting up the minimum service.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-17-54-commissie-ic667x.u101	Mr President, Mr Minister, as my colleagues have said, you have presented your project to the government on the "guaranteed service" that some call "minimum service", which would require the public to announce the strike eight days before the social concertation and, four days before, the announcement by the staff, individually, of their participation in the strike or not. Anyone who has not communicated his availability in time will be punished. Anyone who has said that he will be present and who is not will also be punished. People are really being pushed towards individualization of the right to strike and a rather worrying system of sanctions is being introduced. Criticism comes from the unions which, from the outset, did not agree with this project, but also from the organizations of commuters. They wonder what trains are going to ride, who will be able to get on these trains, how can safety be guaranteed if there are not enough volunteers? All questions that arise and to which there is no answer. I'm not sure these exist, but if you have them, I'd be curious to hear them. Another point, Minister: congratulations! You are at the forefront of destroying the right to strike in this country. This precedent is dangerous for railway workers, but also for all workers. If it attacks the right of a class of workers to strike, the government will not stop in such a good way. You play a role that is not very glorious. The problems of delays, of trains absent, of unexpected, the commuters live them every day. And it's not because of strikes. You should provide the guaranteed service regardless of the issue of strikes. What are you doing to solve the problems in practice, apart from addressing this issue of the right to strike? It is a way of masking the failure of your rail policy. You have made big statements about trains that could no longer be late, but the problems continue to be greater. There is still the question of requisitions. In your project, there is no possibility of requisitioning workers who would not want to work, but the N-VA, on the other hand, is in favour of it. The danger is that this possibility of requisitioning will gradually be introduced. That's how it happened in other countries. The N-VA also announced a regionalized transport plan in the event of a strike, to "prevent Flemish rail users from being victims of French-speaking hostage takers". Is this not a preparation for the split of the rail? What is the time frame for this bill? How do you respond to the critics who say that this project is unrealizable because of the problems that arise? Do you formally exclude any request for staff in your project and in the future? Do some of your government partners require regionalized transportation plans in the event of a strike? If so, what is your position on this?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-17-54-commissie-ic667x.u102	I will add a few more questions myself. I would like to apologize in advance because I have to leave immediately to catch my train, the service of which hopefully is guaranteed. Minister, the context has already been described. A lot of questions have already been asked. So I won't elaborate too long. Since the discussions are still under way, I do not think that we can make many statements on the modalities and implementing rules, among other things. Firstly, purely in principle, today a request for a strike is often used to get the parties around the table. It is a form of last chance consultation between the different parties. Does the proposal provide that a strike can still be avoided? This is still more desirable with a view to achieving maximum service, I believe, than minimum service. Secondly, the proposal provides an answer to the problems in the event of long-announced strikes, at least 8 days in advance. Perhaps that period should even be extended if we are to give a full chance to the last chance to avoid a strike. But what do we do with spontaneous, unorganized actions? We have the protocol today, which dates back to 2008, if I am not mistaken. There have once been proposals to legally anchor that. That is also more or less in the coalition agreement. Are initiatives on minimum service provision still expected for spontaneous actions? Or is that separate from this? Thirdly and finally, I believe that the crucial factor for the success or failure of a minimum service, in whatever form, will be communication to the traveller. I believe that there will certainly have to be sufficient attention to this in the draft that you are preparing. I wonder whether this will be sufficiently taken into account.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-17-54-commissie-ic667x.u103	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as a man of dialogue, I am convinced that it is in the social dialogue that tensions within companies, public services and railway undertakings are resolved. A strike is always a finding of failure of social consultation for all parties. Social dialogue remains and must remain the first way to avoid a strike. However, if the discussions do not succeed and the strike takes place, the railway service, as a public service, must think of travellers, workers and students dependent on the train to move. To say that my project will oppose workers and users is to deny or ignore the reactions of workers prevented from going to work, students prevented from going to school or even going to their exams. As I have already said, it is strikes that strike workers against other workers. This project is precisely there to ensure that, in the event of failure of social consultation, the damage is limited for the workers who want to go to work, the students who want to go to study. In the event of an unannounced strike, SNCB is not in a position today to give even the least information to passengers about the trains that will or will not drive, except on the day of the strike itself. As a result, train users are not offered the choice to take the train or to make other arrangements. There is complete uncertainty, both for the drive-through and for the drive-back. Thanks to the design, reliable information will be provided the morning before the day of the strike. The traveller will know what awaits him or her and will be able to organise himself or herself depending on it: either take the train or choose another means of transport. The aim of this project is to ensure the continuity of passenger transport by rail. In the event of a strike whose notice condition has been complied with, thus excluding wild strikes for which a sanction system already exists within the railway group in Regulation 548, the service will be provided by available workers, i.e. by persons who have voluntarily chosen not to participate in the announced strike. Given the availability of staff, the best transport offer will be arranged, if possible, and will be communicated to travellers no later than 24 hours prior to the strike. The government wanted to emphasize the right to go to work, to go to work, to go to school for students. This bill is based on the principle that a public service must be able to be provided on a continuous, regular and uninterrupted basis, without prejudice to the right to strike. The exercise of the right to strike is therefore free and free, which for me was a sine qua non for the project. It is not a question of reducing the right of some (the right to strike) in relation to the right of others (the right to go to work), but of putting them on a level where equality is better ensured. In fact, how will the implementation of the guaranteed service be organized? In the first instance, management should determine the operational functions necessary for trains to operate in full safety, such as those of train drivers, train escorts or signalling staff, and should also define scenarios which, depending on different levels of presence of operational personnel, provide for a number of trains. It can be expected that the scenarios submitted to Parliament will serve as a basis for this. In the event of a strike announced in D-Day, the event will be as follows: - D-8 working days: notice declaration; this is already the case. - D-4 working days: each employee must communicate whether he or she intends to work or not. This principle does not differ from the one currently applicable where everyone announces their intention to come to work or not on a strike day. - D-24 hours: SNCB must communicate the proposed transport plan. If a member of staff has not made or has changed his mind on less than 3 days before the strike, without valid reason, disciplinary sanctions may be considered. Depending on the situation, for example, this could be a financial penalty, a reprimand, a blame, and so on. The arrangements which will apply to employees to make known their intentions will be determined at the level of the companies themselves. It will be up to the managing director of SNCB to decide, after consultation with the managing director of Infrabel and on the basis of the employees' declarations of intent, which transport offer is guaranteed on the scheduled strike day or on the scheduled strike days. I hear that to ask staff to position themselves four days in advance is to put an end to the consultation four days before the strike. Of course, that is not true! There is nothing to prevent the agreement from going on and reaching a solution before the strike, even the day before! Some say that this project lacks ambition. You can always see the glass half empty! However, it represents a major balanced, realistic and pragmatic step forward in the current context. Finally, I would like to point out that the bill to guarantee the continuity of the passenger rail service in the event of a strike is an initiative of the government following the absence of a joint agreement at the level of the Belgian railways Infrabel, SNCB and HR Rail. As a reminder, priority had been given to social consultation, but we had to note that, on this issue, the consultation between the rail managers alone and the unions – the minister was not involved until 31 December 2016 – unfortunately did not lead to an agreement despite two years of discussions. The government has therefore taken over. Don't tell me it's a surprise! The government statement was clear in that regard. If consultation did not succeed, the government would itself take a legislative initiative. This is no secret to anyone: I have always stated that I will respect the government's agreement on this matter. I told and repeated it to the unions in June 2016. I said this and repeated it in my policy brief and in various interviews in September, October and November 2016. I said it in the press. I am transparent and faithful to my commitments. The draft will be tabled in the coming weeks, in accordance with the mechanism I have listed, which you know for having been presented to Parliament at a sitting following the work carried out in HR Rail between the railway managers and the representatives of the trade union organisations without an agreement being reached by 31 December.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-17-54-commissie-ic667x.u104	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I would also like to congratulate you on the result achieved. A great deal of time has been given to social dialogue, two years, longer than originally planned in the coalition agreement. We have given additional time, but nothing has come of it. One might even think that they did not even want to look into it. Well, you kept your word. Last year, when you took office, you said that this is part of the coalition agreement, and I will carry out my mission. You repeated it in your policy paper. You also stick to the timing. You want to land with this file around the summer. You say that the text will be submitted in the next few weeks. In any case, in my group, you will continue to find a supporter, because this file, this guaranteed service, is a major step forward in the continuity of services and, above all, for the traveller, bearing in mind that the freedom to strike will not be put under pressure. The freedom to work is also respected by this text.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-17-54-commissie-ic667x.u105	Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to replicate from the chair. Thank you, Minister, for the answer, but I think we are fundamentally different in this respect. I've been saying that for ten years. I think this is purely a symbolic discussion. It's a trophy to put in the closet. The government - gongfler la poitrine has been said here once - has worked out an arrangement. However, I have been asking the same question for ten years. If a train runs from Antwerp to Brussels and it is full in Duffel or Mechelen, what happens to the passengers waiting in Vilvoorde? They expect to be able to catch a train, but they can't get on the train anymore. Then who's gonna take responsibility? This is a question I have been asking the advocates of this system for more than ten years. I do not think I am of bad will, but I have not yet received a satisfactory answer. Now one can say: I do not get to work because of a trade union action, but in this case the employer can say: there was a train, you are illegally absent. Secondly, who and why are we going to strike? Well, that's usually about an internal business conflict or against a general political policy. I've never seen a CEO strike. Some may work a little less, but others have never stopped. So once again it is the ordinary workers who have to make the decision at that time, you said it yourself: in the context of safety, and should actually make an assessment. That's why I really think people just won't dare to take that responsibility.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-17-54-commissie-ic667x.u106	[[Minister, I heard your answers.]] One of my questions was about the ability of your project to avoid spontaneous strikes. I'm sorry, minister, but I'm not. Unfortunately, one of the main concerns is spontaneous strikes. However, you do not provide any answer in this regard. On the contrary, with the proposals you are putting forward today, which are aimed at discouraging workers from exercising their right to strike in the best possible way and under the strict conditions already laid down, you are likely to make these spontaneous movements multiply. Clearly, this will be the only method still available to workers in order to be able to exercise their right to strike. The question you were asked was: will you respond to the main demand of travellers to avoid spontaneous strikes? The answer is no. Therefore, in view of what you want to introduce, you miss the check. As I said, minister, the best strike is the one we don't do. Besides, you also called him back. Social consultation is of paramount importance. The only difference is that when I say it, I really mean it. I don't feel like you are. If you wish to prevent strikes from taking place and to ensure that consultation takes place as best as possible, Minister, it seems to me that it is high time to use the most useful means to ensure that the Belgian railways finally function as they should.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-17-54-commissie-ic667x.u107	Mr Minister, my colleague Grovonius and I have heard that you are a man of dialogue. However, there are several types of dialogue. First, there's the executioner talking to the man he leads to the scaffold. It's a form of dialogue. We also know the dialogue of the deaf. Can we really talk about an exchange with the unions here? You told them: "My road map is very clear. I have to register the minimum service on my hunting board." You took office and therefore inherited this measure. I don't think it's the one you like the most. In order, there is the 3 billion budget less, then the minimum service. You're thinking, "Let it pass." You say that on July 21, you will be on vacation, hoping that there will be no strike until 2019. I imagine your head, your heart, your blood pressure when you need to move from dogmatic theory to practice! You say that it is not a surprise, that it was written in the government agreement, that some seem to find out when you said it and repeated it in Parliament. I remember well, in the permanent sections room, located on the third floor, when you took office. You talked about it again in the Congress Hall under the blows of the N-VA. Indeed, you are not moving fast enough and it is keeping your eye on you! Why? Because she was asking for two things. It's kind of like the two-bladed Gillette razor. The first blade is 3 billion less; the second blade is the minimum guaranteed service. Today, all parliamentary groups are asking questions. In any case, those who are present. But a group is not represented, yet it is the largest in number. I want to talk about the N-VA. Why? As Jan Jambon would say, "job done." Private Bellot was looking for what the N-VA asked for. If what you tell us is not a surprise, the reaction of the unions will not be a surprise for you either. They said it was the declaration of war. This is a profound violation of workers' rights. In fact, you accept that they are on strike, but it must not bother anyone. The unions have indicated which wood they would heat up from. You know them well; we know them well. Dialogue will be very difficult and will take place on the ground. And there they are very strong! On the field, that day, after four days of heating...
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-17-54-commissie-ic667x.u108	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-17-54-commissie-ic667x.u109	I was very short in my question, Mr. Chairman. It's a debate! There are six or seven questions! I came to Brussels for that!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-17-54-commissie-ic667x.u110	He's used to asking several questions!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-17-54-commissie-ic667x.u111	I usually ask several questions, but this one is worth six or seven. On that day, there will be maximum tension. On that day, there will be danger. Because we'll be understaffed, we'll be in a very tense climate, people will rush into trains, and this will be the first time. There will therefore be questions about security. Private Bellot has secured the minimum service, in any case will present it to the government, without any result from social dialogue but through force. I'll give you an appointment that day, Minister!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-17-54-commissie-ic667x.u112	Minister, I note that you have not answered my questions about the requisition and regional plans in the event of a strike. This lack of response is problematic, especially if...
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-17-54-commissie-ic667x.u113	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-17-54-commissie-ic667x.u114	Finish your line! If there are any questions, then I will answer! You're saying I didn't answer the requisition. And the second point?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-17-54-commissie-ic667x.u115	Regional plans in the event of a strike. So, the two requirements of the N-VA!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-17-54-commissie-ic667x.u116	Is this your reply?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-17-54-commissie-ic667x.u117	Mr. Chairman, the reply follows the answer. If the minister wants to answer, I'll let him answer!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-17-54-commissie-ic667x.u118	Minister, would you like to answer these two questions?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-17-54-commissie-ic667x.u119	Mr President, I can clarify to Mr Devin. I remember the debates on the social elections. You told me worse than hanging, telling me that people will never go, will never accept, that the device will never be put in place by 2018, etc. That has been said in the debates in committee. Six months later, by unanimity of the Joint Committee, everything was in order. There are two things left that have been asked of me and that I find legitimate. The first is the protection of candidates, it will be ensured, which I find normal; the second is not very important, it needs a legislative craft, it will be dealt with at the same time.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-17-54-commissie-ic667x.u120	The six hundred thousand euros to organize the social elections, is it too?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-17-54-commissie-ic667x.u121	I'll try to handle the debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-17-54-commissie-ic667x.u122	I'm trying to answer, Mr. President. It's probably good to say that this government is imposing three billion savings. Maybe I'll answer you in the same tone, Mr. Devin. I hope you manage your municipality's budget in a different way than that because this government has not imposed three billion savings on society. What happened? The previous government had planned a 2013-2025 investment plan where we had gathered everything and for which we were saying "yes" to everyone. I found a statement from the Prime Minister of the time saying "It's the St.Nicolas Plan, there's no euro to finance it." All the projects were accumulated, but if we wanted to do so, we had to increase the State's allocation from EUR 3 billion to EUR 5 billion per year. Okay? This is the reality of things, the documents are accessible. The profile, the demand over five years, is 1.2 billion savings, investments and combined farms. I would remind you that the billion is still there, but, in spite of everything, savings are needed as well as a transfer of operating costs in order to make things clear to investment. Mr. Van Hees, there is no requisition planned. Our country is evolving in a modern way and, I repeat, we are not yet in a dictatorship! There are some on the left and on the right, Mr. Van Hees. Unlike the political regimes that some want to reserve for us, I work with people who sometimes have different ideas from mine but with whom one can always find a balance. The requisition is not and will not be foreseen in this project. As far as regional plans are concerned, the transport offer will be studied line by line, because drivers and escorts are trained line by line. If SNCB and Infrabel realize that on one line 90% of the staff is available, trains on this line will be able to operate safely. But if, on a line, there is only 10% of the staff available, there will be no train on that line. And this can only work in this way because driver licenses are acquired per line. Only trainers are multi-line, but in one region the driver can, for example, be trained for the Brussels-Liège line, and the instructor for Liège-Brussels and Liège-Namur. We will receive the inventory of people available by category, by specialization, by line, and if lines can run, the trains will run and if lines cannot run, the trains will not run. But that does not hide regional plans. Regionalization is impossible because our country is already too small for its network. There is such an interlocking of our networks with each other, particularly with the North-Midi junction in Brussels, that believing that in this country we can regionalise railway infrastructure or operation is illusory. There will be no train, no more possible operation on that day, except on small regional lines, such as Liège-Marloie. It's unbelievable! Our country is already too small, and I have always argued that the three Benelux countries should be brought together in one operating company. It would be so much simpler, we would be so much stronger to resist the great ones who will soon arrive at the conquest of interesting lines.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-17-54-commissie-ic667x.u123	Mr Van Hees, you have the floor for a reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-17-54-commissie-ic667x.u124	Mr Minister, thank you for your very interesting supplementary replies on regionalisation. You absolutely do not agree with Bart De Wever when he says that a train coming from Flanders must stop in Brussels. You're saying it's a big mistake. I'll take note. But when you say that we are not "yet" in a dictatorship, you will understand that this word "yet" worries me a little bit! You say that this project aims to ensure the continuity of the public service. On your part, you still have to dare! This continuity is broken every day by daily problems, by every train removal. You also say that you have to think about the workers and the students who take the train, I do not agree. The railway workers strike against the disinvestment in the rail, causing all the problems for commuters, against the job losses which are the cause of the problems for commuters, against the deterioration of the working conditions which cause safety concerns to commuters. The strike does not oppose workers to other workers. On the contrary, even if it is not always easy for railway workers to pass the message on to commuters, a strike brings together common interests between railwaymen and commuters. The evidence is the criticism of commuter associations on your bill. Finally, you announce that the discussion between the unions and management continues after J -4 in your scheme. But in J-4, the workers had to decide whether or not to participate in the strike. If the protest continues and the worker, after deciding that he was not on strike, changes his mind after J-4, faced with the position of the management he finds unacceptable, and still decides to strike, in your scheme, this worker will be punished.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-17-54-commissie-ic667x.u125	Mr President, do you consider it personal?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-17-54-commissie-ic667x.u126	Unfortunately, the personal fact does not exist in committee. But I gave you the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-17-54-commissie-ic667x.u127	It's personal, even several! Minister, you're pointing my finger at the social elections. I would like to talk about it, but I feel that my colleague Mrs Grovonius can speak about it with ardour that you fear. I'll let her talk about it if she wishes. You understand. I think she really wants to. She's talking about 600,000 euros. I'm waiting with her for your answer. There is a major political fact this afternoon. You're sending Bart de Wever back about him. You're sweeping him.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-17-54-commissie-ic667x.u128	Maybe it's a timely matter for tomorrow.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-17-54-commissie-ic667x.u129	Yeah, we'll talk about it in Flanders. We help everyone we can help in Flanders. But if ever the words in this commission escaped at some point at the N-VA, I don't believe it, but yes, you said to Bart De Wever: "What you say about regional rail is a big mistake." I mean, something that personally touched me...
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-17-54-commissie-ic667x.u130	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-17-54-commissie-ic667x.u131	Minister, I work in Parliament. If I had to believe everything in the press every day, you know... I have information for you. You tell me: "If you manage your municipality like the SNCB..." Our city will publish its account next week. We have 2 million bonuses from a budget of 33 million euros. This makes SNCB say, "Let the city of Binche take care of the station." What SNCB, with its billions, can't do, this little town could do. It's amazing!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-17-54-commissie-ic667x.u132	This debate, although very interesting, will have to be continued elsewhere.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-17-54-commissie-ic667x.u133	I ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to respect the time for questions and answers, since our committee is almost finished.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-17-54-commissie-ic667x.u134	Minister, the press has recently echoed the deep discomfort that exists among SNCB train drivers. The episode of the examination which was opened to them by mistake was revealing in this regard. Whatever the numbers, more and more drivers are taking the first opportunity to change positions at SNCB or simply leave the Group. When we talk to these drivers and their representatives, we understand that there is an increasing pressure on their shoulders. This pressure is accompanied by an unprecedented reduction in good working conditions. Among the difficulties cited, those related to continuing training and adaptation to the incessant changes seem to be at the centre of the concerns. The HLT booklet, the train driver's manual, would thus be subject to a considerable number of regular changes. In addition to the relevance of some of these changes and the additional workload they entail, their multiplication makes the process of integration and ownership by drivers particularly difficult. This is all the more true since these changes would be communicated to drivers in a very dispersed and uneducated way, so much so that instead of improving safety and efficiency on the network, drivers believe that these multiple changes can above all cause confusion and hesitation at critical times, with the worst consequences that can be feared. On the other hand, it would appear that these changes to the HLT booklet are not systematically reflected in the courses offered to the driving students. The same would apply to continuing training provided to drivers by trainers who also have a very short period of time to assimilate the new changes. This leads to a situation where SNCB itself is not in a position to follow up satisfactorily on the changes it has itself identified. Minister, my point is not to question the amendments to the HLT booklet. To everyone his profession, and it's not mine. But I cannot help but note the growing difficulties faced by train drivers. These lead to the disaffection of this profession and to a risk to the safety of passengers. Therefore, let me ask you the following questions. Can you tell me the evolution of the number of drivers in SNCB in recent years? What are the prospects for drivers in the coming years: number of retirements and planned commitments? Does SNCB have the capacity to meet its recruitment objectives? Do you think this profession is still attractive enough to meet SNCB's needs? Has the decline in retirement age had an impact in this regard? Do you confirm the gap between basic or continuing training provided to train drivers and the latest version of the HLT booklet? What is the process followed before achieving a change in the HLT booklet? In 2014, 2015 and 2016, how many communications did train drivers receive regarding an amendment to the HLT booklet? Does SNCB pay attention to the necessary clarity and pedagogy that should accompany these changes to the HLT booklet?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-17-54-commissie-ic667x.u135	Dear colleague, the SNCB has given me the following information. The theoretical operational evolution of train and manoeuvring drivers is as follows: 3 271 in January 2013; 3 170 in January 2014; 3 185 in January 2015, 3 055 in January 2016; 2 998 in January this year. This evolution reflects the departures following the creation of the subsidiary B-Logistics Lineas and THI Factory. SNCB did not provide me with a comparison at a constant perimeter, i.e., with respect to domestic traffic only. This year, 472 drivers are expected to be recruited. This number is likely to be halved in the coming years. The number of departures during this year is 230. On the basis of the age pyramid, it should gradually decrease. SNCB has intensified and expanded its recruitment campaign. The advantages of this trade have been better highlighted. In addition, the effectiveness of the recruitment process is increasing. In addition, the exercise of a previous job will be valued in pay. The debate on retirement age probably led to an increase in departures in 2016 in anticipation. For this year, we see a reverse effect. According to SNCB, there is no discrepancy between the training provided to drivers and the latest version of the HLT booklet, as the updated regulations and training facilities are placed on the IDA tablet of drivers. In addition, the changes are explained during the semi-annual continuing training. For this reason, the driver has the IDA tablet from the beginning of the training. With respect to the final amendments, before a change to the HLT booklet is made, the process is as follows. First of all, six months before the implementation date, the adaptations are announced and incorporated into the training facilities and are undertaken on the basis of the CSRIF amendments - Regulation Infrabel proposed three months before. Then, the projects are finalized and discussed with the people in the field so that the final version is available on the drivers' IDA tablet two months before the implementation date and in paper form one month before the implementation. With respect to communications publications related to changes to the HLT booklet for drivers, SNCB tells me that it published 65 communications in 2014, 99 in 2015 and 102 in 2016. Of these communications, about half concern changes to the regulations, while the others concern either gear or organization: new names, new telephone numbers. Among the changes made, it should also be noted that some have been published twice, i.e. initially on a provisional basis and then on a final basis. SNCB informs me that it pays particular attention to the clarity and pedagogy that must accompany these changes in the booklet. Before any changes are made, the innovations are explained to the trainers as well as to the drivers before they are implemented. In addition, in case of major changes, specific trainings are carried out. This is also confirmed by the survey on the satisfaction with the content of permanent training for drivers. For my part, I also received the testimonies of drivers who illustrated the complexity of this communication by comparing the French documents circulating on the Belgian network with those received by Belgian drivers. At the time, I asked Jo Cornu and I will remind Mrs Dutordoir of this fact to go instead to the French system, simpler and more illustrated. You probably know how this works: when there is a change in the HLT booklet in Belgium, the complete booklet is sent, while the French also draw attention or highlight the amended paragraphs. Drivers should therefore not reread the entire booklet to discover the modified clauses. This is a work to be done to move towards a more educational system in the explanations of the changes to the HLT booklet.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-17-54-commissie-ic667x.u136	Minister, for the first time today, you see me delighted to have this exchange with you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-17-54-commissie-ic667x.u137	The other exchanges were perhaps... on the content but, for the rest, the tone was there!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-17-54-commissie-ic667x.u138	There's no problem. The tone was very cordial. On the other hand, I was less convinced by the answers you gave me. In this case, I am glad to have put the problem on the table and that your attention has been drawn to this problem. You were arrested by drivers and I was arrested myself. I hear SNCB wants to be reassuring. However, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the drivers have told me that there are, in fact, semi-annual training courses. This poses difficulties because, given the semi-annual nature of the training, the latest changes and communications made are not systematically introduced at the time of the semi-annual training given at specific times - the material used for these semi-annual trainings being prepared in advance. Another element has been relayed to me: it is planned to devote half a day to simulator work. I received a lot of testimony from drivers who told me that they had not even been able, during their training, to do these half-days on the simulator because they had spent all their time on theory and on the ingurgitation of all these changes made to the booklet. I really insist that the work be done, in consultation with workers' and drivers' representatives, in particular. I'll come back to you to check on the progress of this case.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-17-54-commissie-ic667x.u139	Minister, we have learned that the cost of vandalism on railway stations and trains is in millions. In 2014, SNCB recorded 2,175 official graffiti observations on its rolling stock. In 2015, 1,832 and 2016, 1,666. The cost of cleaning operations is 2,846,000 euros in 2015 and 3,594,000 euros in 2016. Minister, what are the short- and medium-term measures you intend to put in place to combat this vandalism? Are you considering imposing heavier fines or increasing the presence of Securail agents? What is your action plan in this regard?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-17-54-commissie-ic667x.u140	Mr Devin, the presence of Securail agents on railway stations and trains remains a priority for 2017, not only to fight vandalism but also to reassure SNCB customers and staff. The increase in this presence from year to year is reflected in the figures in particular by a decrease in the number of graffiti events from 2014 to 2016. SNCB has undertaken to prosecute a wide range of railway infringements through a system of administrative fines. Of course, all the facts related to vandalism will be prosecuted through this channel of administrative fines. I shall shortly table on the table of the Council of Ministers a bill to introduce the concept of administrative fines into the arsenal of measures available to effectively sanction behaviour contrary to the obligations relating to the use of rail transport (including in railway stations and passenger parking) and contrary to the safety of railway infrastructure. I hope to be able to count on the support of all when this project is on the table of parliament, a project which is based on the administrative fines put in place at the level of the municipal administrations to combat a whole series of incivilities.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-17-54-commissie-ic667x.u141	Minister, when you set me up, I answer here!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-17-54-commissie-ic667x.u142	Questions Nos 18497, 18531 and 18537 by Mr Calomne are transformed into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-17-54-commissie-ic667x.u143	Minister, I know that my question has been put rather late. That is why I shall confine myself to the broad lines. In the context of climate neutrality, the Dutch Railways intend to become climate neutral in 2018. Effective agreements have been made with Eneco to reach 100 % of green electricity by 2018. At present they are at about 50 %. Local authorities and other authorities are also increasingly pushing towards green electricity as part of the climate objectives. I do not see enough of the efforts made by SNCB in this area. In the past, I've been working on that. However, I didn't find much back. In addition, a number of municipal authorities are working on the issue. That is why I asked my question. For example, on 6 April 2017, the Municipality of Schelle approved a motion asking SNCB to green its infrastructure and lines, including by creating sunroofs above railway lines and the infrastructure. However, according to the data I have been able to find, I will immediately request them, the annual energy bill at SNCB would amount to more than EUR 100 million. For example, an investment in a roofing with railway solar panels would also become a very profitable investment in the long term. There are also other initiatives. For example, with B Logistics, whose new name escapes me now, tools are designed to reduce the energy bill by 20%. That is why I have the following questions. What is the annual cost of electricity for SNCB and Infrabel? Is it true that SNCB is not currently taking green electricity? What's the reason for that? Is that what she's planning to do in the future? Are there objectives and steps to move towards climate neutrality? Are you prepared to start the debate on this together with your colleague, Mrs Marghem, and to examine to what extent we can move towards climate neutrality for the railways in our country?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-17-54-commissie-ic667x.u144	Mr Geerts, Infrabel is still buying all the electricity used by Infrabel itself and by the railway operators. In 2016, the total electricity bill was 127 million euros. This invoice shall cover the costs of supplying electricity for the supply of the overhead contact line and the installations necessary for this purpose, as well as the consumption in fixed installations, station buildings, workshops, signalling, lighting and exchange heating. The electricity consumption of trains was charged EUR 102 million, of which EUR 83.5 million was charged to SNCB. For the time being, the share of green electricity is not an award criterion in the procurement of electricity contracts. It is up to the electricity sector itself, in accordance with regional, federal and European regulations, to make the transition to climate-neutral electricity production. SNCB and Infrabel are committed to giving the production of green electricity a maximum chance within a sustainable framework - ecological, economic and social. Of course, this cannot cover the need on an annual basis. For example, in rush hour on a working day in winter, a capacity of about 400 megawatts has to be delivered. This depends on what one means by climate neutrality. As long as the transition to a climate-neutral electricity production is not achieved, a climate-neutral use of the electricity grid translates by paying the supplements on top of the cost of electricity. It should be noted that in Belgium electricity costs are more and more made up of surcharges for the realisation of the abovementioned cover. In total, Infrabel and SNCB paid more than €20 million in support for renewable energy in 2016 through the system of green electricity certificates including cogeneration certificates and all kinds of other supplements. The idea of sun roofs over the rail lines hanging from the overhead lines is unrealistic for reasons of safety, accessibility and maintenance alone. On the other hand, sun roofs on large buildings such as yard sites, stations and possibly railway taluds are more realistic and will be realised as far as economically feasible. Train travel is already extremely energy efficient compared to other motorised means of transport. SNCB and Infrabel must continue their efforts in this area. I also refer to my answer to the written question No. 2104 by Jef Van den Bergh.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-17-54-commissie-ic667x.u145	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. I also know, of course, that security is absolutely a priority, but this is perhaps a new debate in which efficiency can be sought. You can't do that overnight. We need to look at that further.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-17-54-commissie-ic667x.u146	That is why all the questions for today have been raised. I support the Minister's view that questions which are put at the last minute and then postponed cannot be put to the vote. That's no way to work.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-17-54-commissie-ic667x.u147	When it comes to small general questions, there is no problem. But when it comes to a question that requires a search of numbers, for example, it is a bit difficult when you receive it the day before at 11:00 a.m. The matter may be deferred to the next meeting.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-17-54-commissie-ic667x.u148	(...) (...)
