ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-26-54-plenair-ip193x.u1	The meeting is open. The meeting was opened.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-26-54-plenair-ip193x.u2	Prime Minister, your tax shift is working. More and more taxes are shifting, but they're moving to the Royal House. This is evident from the draft budget for 2018 submitted by your government in the Chamber. Both the royal donations and the Civil List get a great indexing and the costs of the monarchy increase by 206 000 euros to 36 406 000 euros. King Albert, for example, will receive an extra EUR 19 000 next year on top of his EUR 924,000. That's way more than an average employee's annual pension. The most remarkable thing, Prime Minister, is that the government is also giving Laurent more money. However, on 8 August, you announced a proportional sanction, following its umpteenth rage. However, we see that EUR 314 000 is planned for Laurent, EUR 6 000 more than last year. I would like to ask why there will be no financial penalty next year, although you promised? The promised partial deduction of his donation is no longer possible this year, because he has already had the last disc of his generous donation at the end of September. Is there gonna be a punishment at all? After all, according to your procedure, the person concerned must be heard before you can sanction him. But you can't hear him, because Laurent is still sick. Is it not logical, Mr Prime Minister, that, if he is ill for so long, he remains ill and is unfit for work, then he will receive a much lower sickness benefit? Or has he always, like his brother, been disabled? I am very curious to hear your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-26-54-plenair-ip193x.u3	Prime Minister, yesterday was a high day for the monarchy. It went not only in the light of sweet sixteen, but also under the motto sweet dreams. After all, the 2018 budget does provide the royal family with sweet dreams. The amount and the Civil List are getting better. For example, the costs for the monarchy increase to EUR 36.4 million per year. That's all paid for by the taxpayer. There will be EUR 6 000 for Laurent, but also EUR 6 000 for Astrid, EUR 19 000 for King Albert and EUR 235 000 for Filip and Mathilde. The tax shift works exquisitely for the royal family. The increase for Laurent gives a serious resentment, Prime Minister. You announced a sanction in August. And I thought then that Laurent's sweet dreams would become his broken dreams. But it's not gonna be Laurent's broken dreams, it's gonna be my broken dreams. After all, I thought you would give a sanction, but what happens: you give him a bonus! To my written question, you replied that you had a meeting with Laurent's lawyer on 25 September. Today we're a month later and I'm still waiting for that government proposal. After all, you cannot expect us to approve or even discuss a budget for 2018 with a bonus for Laurent. Your government's motto is, however, 'working must pay'. Now, whether that's working here or whether that work should be rewarded, I doubt it. The activity report and the report on Laurent's expenditure have never been discussed here. I don't think those reports can stand the light of day. Prime Minister, what steps will you take now?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-26-54-plenair-ip193x.u4	The 2013 law on the donations lays down rules. On the one hand, there are rights, on the other hand, there are obligations. I have clearly emphasised in both the plenum and the committee that the government is closely monitoring the application of the 2013 law. Let me give you a first example. A few months ago, following a negative report by the Court of Auditors on the 2013 law, we took the decision to request a refund based on a report from the Constitutional Court. The refund has been effective. Secondly, last July we learned that Prince Laurent was present at a celebration on the occasion of the anniversary of the Chinese army without the government's agreement. I made it clear at that time that I would start a procedure in accordance with the law of 2013. We did. I organized a hearing with Prince Laurent's attorney. We have received legal documents and justifications there, in accordance with the rights of the defence. It is up to the Prime Minister and the Council of Ministers to look at the legal analysis. As soon as possible, after an in-depth legal analysis, I will be the Prime Minister of the Council of Ministers to submit a proposal in accordance with the 2013 legislation. In short, no one is above the law and we will ensure the correct application of the 2013 law.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-26-54-plenair-ip193x.u5	Prime Minister, you say "as soon as possible." That sounds a bit like "unfortunately." You are not going to stick to that procedure either, but it is clear that it is not foreseen for next year. If you expected the procedure to be completed by then, you would have included it in your budget. Actually, that sanction is just a side issue. In Flanders, a majority agrees that it is also much more fundamental that the donations of Laurent and Astrid are personal favors with taxpayers' money. There's no justification for that today. I would like to say it with the words of Theo Francken, in a press release of 2013, before he regularly went on coffee at the Palace. Then he rightly said: "That with Laurent and Astrid the brother and sister of the King get a dotation, that happens nowhere else. In other monarchies, they just work out." Rightly so, his party promised to do something about it, but I haven't seen that change yet. Ladies and gentlemen, when the budget is discussed in the Chamber, the Flemish interest will, as every year, table amendments to deliver on these promises and indeed abolish the amounts. Anyone who is in favour of this in press releases and tweets can simply vote in favour of these amendments and, for once, take action.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-26-54-plenair-ip193x.u6	Thank you, Prime Minister, for the answer. You're talking about disciplinary procedure. The Chamber also has the right to invite Prince Laurent here to come and say his piece. You can do that perfectly in the disciplinary procedure. I don't see a problem with that. If he doesn't want to come himself, he can always be represented. I hope that the proposal that you will come up with will ensure transparency and that we can have a parliamentary debate on this. At least we're looking forward to it. I think you're a little less looking forward to that. I have my doubts, of course, because the Belgian royal family cannot tolerate transparency. As I said, activities, reports and so on are simply not discussed. Laurent has already received EUR 5 million from the Belgian tax payment and Astrid has received EUR 6 million. Why do they get that? It is a personal favor, knowing that they will never enter the throne. They only get it because they're king's children. That's what I call a win for life. If it depends on us, it can simply be abolished. That's another slope you can follow, Prime Minister. They've been given that amount by bill. We can perfectly ensure in the Chamber that he gets either less dotation or, if it depends on me, he gets nothing more.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-26-54-plenair-ip193x.u7	Mr President, Mr Minister, if you allow, on 1 January 2018, Fortis, a Belgian capital bank, via its parent company, BNP Paribas, which makes hundreds of millions of euros of annual profits, will pay part of its workers in virtual currencies, on which there will be no payment of social contributions or professional prepayment. The expenditure will have to be made in the context of the choices imposed by the bank. It's kind of like the time when we had to buy from the company's or coal-mining stores. The day after tomorrow will be engulfed in this breach of other companies with very serious consequences on the financing of social security but also in terms of budget and freedom for workers. I have been asking you about the matter for months and yesterday you admitted that the practice was illegal and not in conformity with the law on the protection of wages, an essential element of our social system. On the other hand, you have not been very clear on the follow-up that will be given and I would like to ask you about this. Minister, will you, yes or no, tell Fortis that the proposed system is illegal and prevent it from being implemented? In addition, you announced in Today's Evening your intention to modernize – a very friendly term – the law on wage protection. What do you mean by modernization? Is it a question of preventing tomorrow's kind of creativity, social engineering, which is very expensive for our solidarity system and the financing of the state? Or will you - I hope not - adapt the law to these practices and ensure that these cracks become breaches in our social model? I would like to have some clarity on your part, Mr. Minister for Employment.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-26-54-plenair-ip193x.u8	Minister, what is at stake today is a social and fiscal assembly of the country's first bank, BNP Paribas Fortis, in the form of a plan called "Vision 2020", which is more generally called "Plan Cafeteria". It consists of turning part of the wage into points, thanks to which the worker is entitled to a "menu": a car, a PC, training, days off, etc. If he prefers cash, he gets less interest. This social and fiscal engineering is unacceptable, Minister, because it is a theft of social security contributions which results in a loss of indirect wages for the worker and a de-financing of social security. After that, the government will say that you have to work longer, because the security is defunded! This system is also tantamount to a hijacking of a part of the professional pre-payment and thus leads to the destruction of public services, as they find themselves deprived of financing. In addition, there are two other attacks on the world of work. First, the percentage of earnings paid in points would never again be indexed in the worker's career. Second, his situation in the company would be individualized, so no collective claim could be made any more. As regards the legal aspect, the ruling of the advance rulings service was granted. Having said that, we know that this one is usually flattened in front of multinationals and satisfies all their wishes. The ONSS does not offer a binding ruling, but it has given a positive opinion. Only the Directorate-General of Social Law Control found that the 1965 Act was violated. You yourself, Minister, have said that you want to modernize this one. Minister, if this is illegal, are you going to prohibit BNP Paribas Fortis from applying it? Secondly, does your wish to modernize the law mean that you will extend the social and fiscal piracy of the bank in question to all companies in the country?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-26-54-plenair-ip193x.u9	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Gilkinet and Mr Van Hees, the question surprises me, because on Tuesday we had the opportunity to talk about it in the Committee on Social Affairs. However, I have additional information to convey to you. First, yesterday, after a consultation in my office, I was asked to list all the existing advantages that the law on the protection of remuneration does not allow and to establish the frequencies within companies. This was the first action on Tuesday after the discussion we had in the Social Affairs Committee. Secondly, as far as BNP Paribas Fortis is concerned, the investigation is in the hands of the Social Law Inspectorate, which sent me a report in which possible problems of legality are found in the event that BNP Paribas Fortis fulfils its intentions. On the basis of the documents in the file, the inspection will independently decide on any legal action to be taken. I cannot give instructions to the Social Law Inspectorate, but it is clear that there is a problem of legality. Meetings have been held between my strategic unit and Minister De Block's to prepare for the implementation of the passage in the government agreement to harmonize the concept of remuneration so that, to the extent possible, all benefits are assessed and treated in the same way by the different administrations. Personally, I regard the legal certainty of workers and employers and its impact on social security as important. I hope that the government will quickly find the right solutions. It is up to the Social Law Inspectorate to send a clear message to BNP Paribas Fortis.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-26-54-plenair-ip193x.u10	Mr. President, Mr. Peeters, I thought you were the minister. It is, of course, up to you to take your responsibilities. This Tuesday you told me in the Social Affairs Committee that the system is illegal. In my view, you have a responsibility to make this clear to this company, which is one of the largest in Belgium, one of the four largest banks in our state, of which we are shareholders. Sometimes I feel like you're washing your hands. Having said that, I see a small opening when it comes to the desire to clarify things from a legal point of view. I ask you not to let yourself be overtaken by the facts and by the creativity of some, as was the case yesterday, for example, with company cars which are an environmental cancer, beyond the fact that they represent a real problem for public finances, since this is about more than two billion euros. There are discussions within the government. I don't trust you when you use the term "modernize." As far as I'm concerned, I like modernity when it frees workers and makes our society more egalitarian, more enjoyable to live. I do not like it, when it comes to returning to the industrial society where workers are obliged to buy in the company's shops and are not free to use their wages properly. Today, it's more than 4,700 euros. But if you let it happen, tomorrow it will be a minimum net wage and the rest will be paid in virtual currency, which we will not accept.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-26-54-plenair-ip193x.u11	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, I hear you are procrastination. You say we're going to see, we're going to investigate. Perhaps you are waiting for the opinion of the N-VA to know how to act. In any case, what amazes me, Minister, is that you say that you cannot intervene, that it is up to the Social Inspectorate to do so. I remember that in the case of excess profit rules, when Mr Reynders, then Minister of Finance, was asked if he should be interpreted in one way or another, he said that "it should be interpreted in a way that is favourable to multinationals." Things were clear. Here, you are asked how to interpret this kind of agreement and you avoid saying yourself, no doubt, because you have a hidden agenda. In any case, we know that with this government, when it comes to modernization, it is usually to bring back to the nineteenth century.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-26-54-plenair-ip193x.u12	Mr President, Minister, digitalisation and the sharing economy are on the rise in our labour market. That won't be unknown to you. Deliveroo is such an example of sharing economy, where bike messengers deliver meals at home. Today, these workers are employed, which means that they benefit from social protection. As of tomorrow, however, that will not happen, because the company Deliveroo has unilaterally decided that those concerned will be paid by the hour and will no longer be employed. They have therefore lost all protection and are now covered by the self-employed status. This is an example of flexibility and of the desire for profit on which that system operates. The mini-jobs aren't far away. I'm concerned about this evolution. Shared economy can have a positive effect on our labour market, but if it is intended to push people into a worse statute, that is not the evolution we want. The social partners have asked for clarity on the legislation around the platforms of the collaborative economy and on the obligations of the employer in this respect. Minister, in the case of Deliveroo, everything indicates that there is an employment relationship. It is, after all, Deliveroo that determines where the contracts are to be carried out and what fees are to be paid. I understand that there is legislation in our country whereby the nature of an employment relationship cannot be changed unilaterally. Well, I don't think the law is respected here. Do you intend to instruct the inspection services to review the requalifying of the employment relationship by Deliveroo? Has the government taken initiatives to clarify the platforms of the collaborative economy?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-26-54-plenair-ip193x.u13	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Kitir, the company Deliveroo was already in the early stages of the inspection of the RSZ on the basis of the former organisational model. Up to now, they worked with Smart, which acted as an intermediary who indicated the suppliers to the RSZ and paid the contribution, thus allowing them to benefit from the employees' statute. This has already been the subject of a survey carried out by the inspection in the past and has been the subject of pv's. Now we are faced with a new fact, as I, like you, read in the paper. I have instructed both the RSZ Inspection Service and the Monitoring of Social Laws to take this dossier to heart and to check whether Deliveroo effectively introduces the new organisational model and therefore works without Smart and directly with the thousand couriers who deliver the goods or the order at home. Of course, the legislation must be respected. Following the examination of the inspection services, we will examine what additional actions may be needed. For the sake of clarity, social legislation and labour law must be respected by all. The inspection services must be informed about this and that order was given to them today.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-26-54-plenair-ip193x.u14	Mr. Secretary, I'm glad you got into action so quickly. Shared economy can be positive for our labour market, but you will agree with me that if we go down the road as outlined above, this is not the right direction. As soon as the inspection report is available, I will question you again. I hope, however, that you will now address the question of the social partners in order to clarify the platforms of the collaborative economy and the obligations of the employer in this respect.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-26-54-plenair-ip193x.u15	Mr President, Minister, we are jointly implementing an ambitious government agreement. Typically, we are focusing on more people at work. We can say in all modesty that we are doing well. The number of jobs is rising, unemployment is falling. The figures speak for themselves. Madam Minister, we are also ensuring that people who have contributed to the system or have contributed in the past are given the opportunity to recoup. People working for at least four fifths of the age of an employed or self-employed person will soon be able to earn up to 500 euros a month free of tax. This also applies to pensioners who have contributed in the past. Yesterday, in Het Nieuwsblad, I saw Unizo's concern about this measure. The unemployed should also be allowed to earn EUR 500 a month free of tax in the collaborative economy, while maintaining their benefits. That's how I understood it. Your reaction was not entirely clear to me, although this may have been due to the way in which your reaction was expressed in the press. My specific question is as follows. Is the fear of Unizo justified, Madam Secretary? Or can you confirm here that the unemployment regulation, as it stands today, will not be amended? In other words, is it still impossible for an unemployed person to start working in that particular sector while retaining his benefit at 100%?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-26-54-plenair-ip193x.u16	Mr President, Mr Raskin, it is true that the conditions for earning up to EUR 500 free of charge per month, with a maximum of EUR 6 000 per year, are four fifths of work or are retired. For the unemployed, only those who are on a route may be eligible for unpaid additional income, and only for the work of association, but not for the citizen-to-citizen work. It is certainly not the intention to organise an unemployment trap. It is therefore only for those who are on a guidance path, which is a temporary one, and the employment services must always give their consent, just to ensure that it is not an unemployment trap. Other measures have been introduced to address Unizo's concerns, in particular five additional measures to avoid unfair competition. The lists are also well-tested. I think we will be able to cope with the sighs.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-26-54-plenair-ip193x.u17	Madam Minister, if I have understood your answer correctly, I think I can conclude that the unemployment regulations as we know them today are not being changed. If I am not mistaken, you are referring to the modality that already exists today, in particular that it is possible to earn free of tax only for a short period of time and as a function of a route to an independent activity. You have also made it quite clear that you do not want to organise a fall in unemployment, and we support you in that, because if it does lead to a fall in unemployment, it would mean that we are pursuing policies contrary to everything we have done so far. You replied clearly, however, that there will be no unemployment trap. We will continue along this path, and we will continue to support you in it.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-26-54-plenair-ip193x.u18	Minister, I have a question about personnel policy in the defence sector in the context of labour market shortages. Companies find fewer and fewer people in the private sector. I think that in the majority of Belgian provinces, in six out of eleven, people are getting close to full employment. There is always a link between the private sector and the public sector. When I was mayor at the time, we also found fewer and fewer people for the police at the time when the private labour market was very hot. The private market is difficult. People with a restaurant in Blankenberge recently told me that they no longer find staff and that they will have to close Tuesday and Wednesday. I asked if they couldn't find anyone through the flexi jobs, but that wasn't an option either. So that's the context. How's the hiring going for the D.O.D.? In 2017, we saw the plan to recruit 1 160 soldiers and 50 civilian personnel. Can you do that? Should additional efforts be made? I read that there was a 50% drop-out during the training. Maybe that's an overstatement. How's the whole recruitment process going? Do you want us to step up on that plane? This is about another war, the war for talent. The question is how we can win it.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-26-54-plenair-ip193x.u19	Minister, Defence recently announced the recruitment plans for 2018. These are really very ambitious, with an increase of 35% compared to the previous year. A website is also being launched and Defence has the ambition to recruit more women. However, we cannot deny that working for the defence industry has become less attractive in recent years. The domestic security orders aren't strange about that. There is criticism of this from the Defence Department: it is not one of the core competences of military personnel. They lose their core competences, for example participating in a foreign military operation. We have also seen pictures of the situation in the KMS. The accommodation is really undersized in certain areas. In addition, there is uncertainty about the retirement age. It makes sense that this scares people off to work for the Defense Department. As far as retirement age is concerned, Ecolo-Groen clearly believes that the job of military is not a job like another. It is a difficult profession and it must be taken into account before retirement age. I have the following questions, Minister. How many people will be recruited effectively in 2017? Have the objectives for 2017 been met? Are the increased recruitment targets for 2018 due to a higher outflow in 2017, a higher attraction, or is it due to the retirement of more military, which means we need to step up our efforts? How many soldiers will be recruited in the limited-term status? What will you do to minimize the outages of the new recruits? We have already had debates on this in committee. I thought one out of three went out in the short term. Finally, what will you do to make the profession more attractive so that we can achieve the recruitment objectives?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-26-54-plenair-ip193x.u20	Mr President, Minister, we have already mentioned this subject several times. Your 2030 strategic plan includes a reduction in the number of soldiers and civilian personnel. As we know, the main object is the rejuvenation of executives. For this year, your strategic vision included the complementary engagement of 1,284 military personnel. This commitment target has even been revised upwards, with 300 additional commitment opportunities. Mr Minister, what leads me to question you is that, unfortunately, the number of departures is quite large and recruitment is a problem, since we are unable to recruit from the branches in which we wish to engage. Minister, how do I react? How can this be stopped and how can jobs in Defence be made more attractive to young people? How can this phenomenon of mass departures be explained?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-26-54-plenair-ip193x.u21	Mr De Vriendt, for all the figures you are asking, perhaps it is best that you submit a written question. I believe that the reading of tables is outside the scope of a debate in plenary. I'll give you a few figures anyway. Before 2017, our plan was to recruit 1 160 soldiers and recruit 50 citizens. Well, at the end of this year we will have recruited 1 160 soldiers and 50 civilians. The fact is that on 1 October we had to recruit 150 people, but they have already been recruited. There's a difference between recruiting and recruiting. In addition, we have so far employed 25 citizens. For the rest, Selor's proceedings are being closed. We will be able to recruit them by the end of the year. There will indeed be an accelerated increase next year. We're planning 1 570 recruitments next year. If I am not mistaken, we will recruit 2 100 people a year by 2024. There are a number of reasons for this. It's not because there would be an increased outflow this year. The outflow this year is the same as in the past. I would also like to stress that this outflow has a number of internal causes, which we are working on. For example, the fact that a number of candidates have dropped out is partly due to the fact that we had a rule, which means that candidates who remained after their candidacy were immediately bound for a period of return. We have abolished that rule. We no longer apply them, which will mean that people will not drop out at the end of their training, because at the end of their candidate period they will find that they are stuck for the next three years. That is one of the measures we are taking on a regulatory basis. I can tell you that in the Defense Department, a whole bunch of people without a diploma can still find a place. We offer a competitive wage, of course according to the military circumstances. In the end, we offer work on a team that cannot be found in another place. That must be one of the assets that the renewed campaign of image will bring forward. Mrs Jadin, when it comes to the number and its increase, we must first take into account the age pyramid. In addition, military personnel will have the opportunity to be recruited by the new DAB, voted last week in plenary session. This option is one of the recruitment opportunities offered to people under BDL status, for the end of their career in the army. We have all the assets to integrate war for talent.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-26-54-plenair-ip193x.u22	Minister, it was a clear answer, which means that we are absolutely on track for 2017 and that the challenges are great to move from 1 170 to 1 500 recruitments and then even 2 000 recruitments. I note that we have no structural problems and that the career is absolutely attractive. Thank you for your answer. We will continue to follow up the file together.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-26-54-plenair-ip193x.u23	Minister, you have mentioned more figures than I asked for, for which I am grateful. The ambition to move towards 1 570 recruitments is, of course, very ambitious. You're talking about a publicity campaign. However, the degree of attrition in our army is structuralally problematic. You have not really addressed it, but a number of important issues need to be addressed, such as street security orders, which must remain temporary, as we have always said. There is also the situation of the accommodation, when it comes to OVG. There is also an increase in the retirement age. These themes are the focus of important debates, which does not improve the image of the army. They are therefore counterproductive for the recruitment of military personnel. Being a military man is a good job, with a commitment to the homeland. The recruitment of military personnel and the resolution of problems in this area must therefore be taken seriously.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-26-54-plenair-ip193x.u24	Minister, thank you. I am pleased to learn that your recruitment targets for the current year will be met. We therefore hope that the same will apply to the objectives set out next year. I hear well and I also understand the communication efforts on the attractiveness that must also be provided. In some categories that you specifically target at the recruitment level, I am thinking of the NCO class. I also believe that the attractiveness of training and the possibility of further mobility is an emphasis on which we must base ourselves for future recruitment.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-26-54-plenair-ip193x.u25	Mr. President, Minister, in our country, great government clerks go to work every day and put their rigor, talent and probity at the service of the community. It is not because one learns in the press today that an inspector of the Inter-Federal Financial Inspectorate is subject to punishment that one must forget how valuable and necessary the work of the Finance Inspectorate is. I would remind you that this institution ensures the legality and regularity of the expenditure incurred by the various governments of this country. It makes it possible to manage the State's money with probity. Today, therefore, we learn from a sanction against a finance inspector that political pressure has taken place. Let us not go into the details of this case, but this inspector, accused of embezzlement of public funds for ordering and paying a report outside of any legal procedure, would first have been sentenced to a pure and simple dismissal by the Disciplinary College of the Financial Inspectorate. After he brought an action, the penalty was reduced to a demotion with loss of salary. The Interdepartmental Committee, which brings together all budget ministers, was then tasked with clarifying the sanction. It was there, Madam Minister, that you intervened. If my information is correct, you have suggested, as president, that the sanction be increased to eight years. According to the press, your proposal has not reached a consensus. Some even wanted to reduce the penalty to a year. The meeting would not have been able to reach the necessary consensus, however, and the decision was postponed. It's supposed to have been a rough meeting. Without this agreement, the procedure could end after the strict deadline. Fortunately, you convened a second meeting the next day. During the meeting, a member of the steering committee would have made two proposals, one of which would have been reduced to two years. That proposal would have reached consensus after discussion. It should be recalled that, in the absence of consensus, there was a risk of not being able to apply a sanction, which would have been a great deal. Madam Minister, I have no doubt that you have been eager to do everything possible to prevent discrediting such an institution that is so valuable to the functioning of the State, the Regions and the Communities. You have certainly done everything you can to find a compromise and to avoid a penalty at the discount. If the Echo is true, it raises questions. Madam Minister, do you confirm to me that there was controversy at the first meeting of this Committee, that no consensus could be found and that your proposal for an eight-year sanction was rejected by a Flemish regional minister who wanted to reduce the sanction to one year, even with a threat of veto? Have any ministers expressed a desire to reform this sanction procedure with a view to regionalizing it? What do you think of this idea? I do not rule on the merits of the matter, but do you not fear that this would prefigure a broader desire to regionalise the Finance Inspectorate? In a completely opposite direction, do you not think that consideration should be given to changing the functioning of the disciplinary procedure to make it less sensitive to blockages caused by some?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-26-54-plenair-ip193x.u26	Mr Crusnière, your speech was a little too long.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-26-54-plenair-ip193x.u27	Mr President, Mr Crusnière, thank you for your question. First of all, let me join you in your consideration of what the Inter-federal Financial Inspectorate Corps is, when you qualify their probity, their excellence. I fully agree with this analysis, but I must draw your attention to the limitations that I must observe in today's response, since the procedure is still under way. Moreover, recourse to the Council of State is not to be excluded and the regulations provide for the confidentiality of disciplinary proceedings held by the Interministerial Committee of the Financial Inspectorate. I will therefore not comment on these debates. It is true that in the first instance there was a proposal for a penalty of resignation of its own motion, which was the subject of an appeal. This remedy resulted in the proposal for a disciplinary sanction that was immediately lower, i.e., the regression of the salary scale. It was up to the Interministerial Committee, in its capacity as the competent disciplinary authority, to take a decision. The Interministerial Committee has therefore met in a fully consistent and normal manner, and its decision will be notified to the inspectors in the coming days. As far as the subject of the discussions is concerned, it is clear that, in the case of a human organization, shortcomings are possible. That is why disciplinary procedures are provided for in the regulations. But, in general – I am not talking about the present case – I am of the opinion that the procedures currently in place, which actually require the presence of ministers from all entities for a decision by consensus, are cumbersome and ineffective. Indeed, without consensus, there is no decision and, without a decision, there is no sanction. You have understood that at the key, we may have an inextricable situation in the event of a deep disagreement on the decision to be made even if the case presented is serious. I have therefore asked the Chief of Staff of the Finance Inspectorate to propose, at the approval of the Interministerial Committee, a simplification of the procedure and the reflection will also have to extend to recruitment procedures, to mobility in the career within an inter-federal corps – you have heard me correctly – which must be able to continue to play its essential role.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-26-54-plenair-ip193x.u28	Madam Minister, thank you for your answers. I take note of the reservation that you must respect. I say again, we are convinced that an exemplary sanction should be applied. It is about the credibility, the reputation of a State body generally better known for its rigour and probity. You didn't mention any pressure. So we're gonna stay on the conditional. If a minister has actually exerted significant pressure, it is regrettable. As far as the procedures are concerned, I understand that you are also aware of the need to amend them. They also need to be more transparent. The minister who, alone against all, has protested against the sanction and pressured for the one adopted by the Committee to be less strong, does he realize that, tomorrow, the sanctioned official, whenever he takes a decision, can be seen as the protégé of this party?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-26-54-plenair-ip193x.u29	Mr President, Minister, this week there was a lot to do about Wi-Fi internet on the train following the decision of the new CEO of SNCB. Many fores and opponents have manifested themselves. Opponents say it's a luxury problem, a gadget. Those people actually remind me a bit of the candlesticks who opposed the light bulb at the time. After all, the Internet is a basic requirement, as is electricity. Digital evolution is in full swing and we must leave no one behind. A train, of course, has the intention of being on time; that is its first and most important task. Perhaps this should have been done 20 years ago, but the State-owned company SNCB has not yet succeeded in doing so. Hopefully the new CEO will do that. In addition, it is important to offer a train that offers comfort to the passengers. If one wants to convince people to switch from the car to the train, then one must also offer them that comfort. That's why it's necessary to have internet on the train. Whether this is done via Wi-Fi as in the Netherlands or via 4G as in Switzerland, is less important. The most important thing is that the passenger in the train compartment can work, call or relax. That is why it is necessary to clarify this. Mrs Dutordoir said that they are going to solve the problem by providing full cover outside the train by the end of 2018. Well, I'm telling you, this is not enough. Indeed, due to a problem due to your well-known Faraday cage, calls and internet will never be possible on the train. That is why it is necessary that I think it is interesting to equip the new train sets with equipment to make the internet possible. That's essential. Minister, you said in your policy statement of May 2016 that the Internet should be available on the train. Do you hold onto that? What will you do so that this can be realized?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-26-54-plenair-ip193x.u30	Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, thank you to Mr. Van Quickenborne, who gives me the opportunity to ask a question to Minister Bellot, whom I was going to ask in committee. But like Mr. De Croo spoke, Mr. Van Quickenborne follows him to the gallery. Exactly a week ago, you said that, unlike your predecessors, you did not interfere with the operation of SNCB, calling yourself "the least interventionist minister the SNCB has ever known". A position which, obviously, your colleague Mr. De Croo doesn't share. He who wants to sing of the liberalisation and privatisation of SNCB does not fear inconsistency in this respect. In fact, he decided to play the CEO of SNCB and, in his view, despite the position of the CEO of SNCB, the project of wi-fi in the new trains must be maintained at all costs - 40 million euros, in this case. Mr. Van Quickenborne also defends him here. Facing Mr. From Croo, Ms Dutordoir – the real CEO – believes, after the completion of a test phase, that it is too expensive, "not essential". Now, remember, we were really starting out from the need for the user. Another difference between these two people which it is worth recalling: it is the second, Mrs Dutordoir, to assume the billions of savings imposed by the first, Mr. From Croo. Of course, Wi-Fi is an undeniable comfort for train users. 4G coverage is too often interrupted, if not non-existent on a train. But obviously – Mrs Dutordoir recalled – there are many other challenges to be addressed as well. So, Minister, given the heavy savings imposed on SNCB, choices must be made. We know the position of Deputy Prime Minister Open Vld and the position of the CEO of SNCB. Very simply, what is yours? What do you think should be SNCB's priorities to improve the quality of service to users? What do you think of your colleague's suggestion, Mr. From Croo? Do you intend to go back to the decision and position taken by Mrs Dutordoir?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-26-54-plenair-ip193x.u31	Colleagues, in the strategic vision that has been adopted by the government, it is expected that Internet access will be made possible on trains. It is consistent with the general objectives of the government and therefore with mine as minister, but also with those of the CEO that we should put the customer at the centre. Increasing customer comfort also implies guaranteeing high quality internet access on the train. To realize internet in the train, there are two possibilities. Either SNCB itself organises Wi-Fi in its trains, or the existing 3G, 4G or even 5G network of operators operating in our country is strengthened. I have heard Mrs Dutordoir's point of view on this matter. I also heard from Ms. Leroy, CEO of Proximus, and Mr. De Clerck, chairman of Proximus' board of directors, who declared in the Infrastructure Committee that Proximus was not in favour of public wifi since the 4G network is more suitable and less expensive, adding that wifi is not to be recommended on trains as soon as the 4G or 5G signal is strong enough. The M7 trains that were ordered in 2015 will nevertheless be equipped with ducts in which cables could eventually pass if we took the option of wifi. But technology is progressing and 5G is a technology that can free itself from the constraints of Faraday's cage on trains. Therefore, following the various statements and positions on this subject recently, I will shortly be holding a meeting with my colleague Alexander De Croo, Mrs Dutordoir and the heads of the gsm and internet operators in Belgium in order to find a common position on this issue. The customer's comfort will, as always, be our course of action and the possibility of connection is of course part of it.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-26-54-plenair-ip193x.u32	You were very clear, Minister, in the sense that you said that the comfort of travellers is paramount. There's got to be Internet in the train cars. In other words, you are very clear about the government's line, and that seems obvious to me. If people can stream into an airplane at 10 kilometers altitude today and watch movies or listen to music, it seems prehistoric not to allow this on the train. If people want to get out of their cars and on the train, they must be able to work on the train. Working on the train means that one must be able to be permanently connected if one so wishes. If you don't want the internet on the train, you shouldn't take your mobile phone and listen to your neighbor or read the newspaper. It is not an obligation to use the Internet on the train, but it must be possible for anyone who wishes to use it. A 21st-century train deserves internet. I will support your initiatives in this regard, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-26-54-plenair-ip193x.u33	Minister, you have made it very clear: Mr. De Croo does not share the analysis of the CEO of SNCB at all. Proximus says that this is not necessary and that with the progress that will take place, we must not invest more in this matter today. You're going to have a meeting with people who don't share the same opinion and you're going to try to get through it from the top. Good luck! Until then, I invite you and Mr. De Croo, to provide the means necessary for trains to depart and arrive on time, so that users can be transported on clean trains and there are still enough lines in the future, even at regional level. Perhaps the most unfortunate thing is that, as a first step, we did not hear Mr. De Croo on these fundamental issues, other than the participation in a withdrawal of €3 billion for SNCB, which users needed very much!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-26-54-plenair-ip193x.u34	Mr Minister, last Monday, a petition signed by 1.3 million European citizens was submitted to the European Commission, calling for a ban on the use of glyphosate in agricultural activities. The following day, the European Parliament adopted a resolution along the same lines. However, in the absence of a compromise between the Member States, the implementation of this text is at risk. The Commission is proposing a renewal of the authorisation of this product for five to seven years, since the application of a phasing out is apparently not possible. Therefore, there is a high probability that, for several years, the current scenario will continue. Yet, Minister, you know as well as I do that glyphosate has been classified as a carcinogen by the International Centre for Cancer Control. He is also suspected of causing genetic malformations. I know that you are also a strong supporter of the precautionary principle and that, like your French, Italian, Austrian and Luxembourg counterparts, you have taken a European stance in favour of a short-term ban on glyphosate. Mr Minister, I would therefore like to know what your position will be if there is no satisfactory compromise between the Member States. Will you use the alibi of a guilty inaction or, on the contrary, will you decide to take the lead by applying, with the states having pronounced themselves in the same direction, a definitive ban on glyphosate in our country, but progressive for the agricultural sector – as he asks? If so, what are you going to do to protect our fellow citizens from the harmful effects of this substance in products from countries where this ban will not apply? In the same vein, what measures are you planning to take to protect Belgian farmers against a form of distortion of competition that will thus be generated? Indeed, if the public health imperative requires us to take strong action as soon as possible, it would be completely absurd for the Belgian consumer, in the end, to be able to buy the Belgian potato, which is uncontaminated by plant protection products and, for example, red beans – to speak of starch – which, in turn, are sprayed with glyphosate in these countries.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-26-54-plenair-ip193x.u35	Mr. Secretary, I don't have any potatoes with me. First of all, let me say that we are very pleased with the position taken by our country in Europe with regard to pomace. It is clear that the spirits have matured with you and many of your colleagues from the Member States. Many now follow the road of safety and honour the precautionary principle. As a result, the European Member States did not take a decision yesterday on the renewal of the authorisation of satsumas, and we believe that this is a positive first step. The European Commission will, of course, present a new proposal. This proposal should not entail an extension of the licence for our group and our European group, but it should clearly be about phasing-out. After all, the licence could be renewed, which means that we will have to reopen our discussion in a few years' time. An extension of the licence would de facto mean a postponement of the decision. We would find that irresponsible. We must now have a clear perspective on the end of the use of satsumas, and we are convinced of that. Yesterday, you supported the European Parliament's proposal to opt for a phasing-out in five years. In our opinion, this phase-out would be best done in three years' time. Three years is long enough to settle on the ground. Prime Minister, I would like to hear from you in particular whether you will continue to support the European Parliament's proposal on both points. Will you stick to the phasing-out, rather than an extension of the license? Will you help achieve the phase-out of maximorum for five years?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-26-54-plenair-ip193x.u36	Thank you for your questions, because it is an important dossier. It's also one of the first files I recorded when I became a minister. As you said, the Belgian position is perfectly clear. Mandated by the government, I was able to give instructions for the meeting of the European Standing Committee on Plants, Animals and Food, in order to take the position that has been presented in the media; a clear, clear and consistent position, by which we take a stand against the European Commission's proposal to extend the use of glyphosate for 10 years. We weren't the only ones. Ten other countries took the same position. Others abstained. Through the scientific controversy that has emerged between different reports, it is clear that doubt must be taken into account when it comes to public health. We have also made the Belgian position clear. Mrs. Jiroflée, the deadline for getting out of glyphosate with a phasing out is up to five years. For our government, phasing-out is necessary for the use of satsumas. It will therefore be a matter of ensuring, in the context of the positions we take, that the European Commission integrates the need for phasing out. This position was also reflected in the resolution that was voted on in the European Parliament. If we look at the vote that has taken place, we can see that, in all groups, an overwhelming majority of Belgian parliamentarians who sit in this House have voted in favour of this resolution, which aims, in fact, at an exit from the glyphosate, but an exit carried out in a perfectly realistic way. In other words, we must pay attention to the strong dependence of the agricultural sector on glyphosate today. We very clearly expect the European Commission to take this dependency into account and commit itself to supporting alternatives, research and development. We will report on this at the next meeting of the Committee. My intention is to bring together the elements of the Belgian position, to get out of the glyphosate with a phasing out for a maximum of five years. That is our position that we must share with other countries. I have already had contacts with my French counterpart, Nicolas Hulot. Contacts with other countries are under way for coordination. I have also planned – this is essential – a meeting with representatives of agricultural associations to prepare, if necessary, with them for the release of glyphosate.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-26-54-plenair-ip193x.u37	Mr President, Minister, I hear your answer very well. Nevertheless, I would have liked to see a more proactive policy implemented in Belgium so that we could take the lead in the sector and become a European leader in this field. It is necessary to continue to invest the field of alternatives, as you mentioned. It seems to me that stronger measures can be taken now in terms of product standards, consumption and clear consumer information. I recall that on 27 April your predecessor announced that he would issue an order prohibiting the placing on the market and therefore the use of herbicides intended for individuals. It seems to me that this announced decree is still not taken. It's six months later. It's time to take action.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-26-54-plenair-ip193x.u38	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I am pleased that you also admit that the European Commission has taken far too little account of the successive studies, which now really clearly indicate that there is a problem. I also recognise that we cannot simply stop using turnips from today to tomorrow. It is simply too well-established in our European agriculture. However, we urge that the phasing-out period be kept as short as possible. We believe that this should be possible in three years' time. In any case, we are following with interest what position you will defend in Europe.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-26-54-plenair-ip193x.u39	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, I am sorry to impose late benefits on you when you may need rest. So I won't be long. In the Committee on Finance, we received the Federal Ombudsman, who gave us a report on family taxation. The findings of this report are consistent with those of SD Worx, who was mandated by the Minister of Finance for this study. This suggests that family taxation should be completely reviewed. Nevertheless, the government does not expect this work to be done in committee; this summer, it has taken certain measures, particularly in favour of low-income and at-risk-of-poverty households, such as single-parent families. This would be an increase in the non-taxed portion of a household's income. I'd like to know if you're confirming this. Do you have an idea of the number of beneficiaries involved? Do you know the budget for this measure? Is it provided for in the State budget to ensure the protection of families under poverty?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-26-54-plenair-ip193x.u40	Mr Piedboeuf, thank you for your questions. Your first question concerns the content of this measure. It intends to support working single-parent families taxably. This is additional assistance, which will be organised through two measures. The first is an additional tax advantage for single, working parents with limited income. We double the tax-free sum for that group, from 1 150 to 3 100. This additional benefit will, of course, be phased out as revenue increases. This really is a measure for the lowest incomes. Secondly, there will be a lower cost of childcare. The federal government will refund up to 65% of the cost for these families, the single parents, through the tax return. On the basis of the data we now have, 70 500 single parents will be left net more at the end of the journey. With the current measure, at least 15 500 single people will pay less for childcare. Finally, there is the demand for the budget foreseen. As you know, in the summer agreement, we allocated an additional 100 million to the lowest incomes, at the top of 9% at the beginning of the legislature. Of this 100 million, at least 20 million will be spent on these two measures, specifically for the group of single working parents.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-26-54-plenair-ip193x.u41	Madam Secretary of State, thank you. I am glad to see that we continue to be concerned about low incomes and at-risk-of-poverty families. We must continue in this direction. We must work to review family taxation, which sometimes creates imbalances.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-26-54-plenair-ip193x.u42	End of oral questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-26-54-plenair-ip193x.u43	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Barbara Pas, Filip Dewinter, Jan Penris.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-26-54-plenair-ip193x.u44	The Committee on the Interior, General Affairs and the Public Prosecutor proposes to reject this proposal for a resolution. (1721/2) The Committee on the Interior, General Affairs and the Civil Service proposes to reject this motion for a resolution. (1721/2) Pursuant to Rule 88 of the Rules of Procedure, the plenary shall decide on this proposal for rejection after hearing the rapporteur and, where appropriate, the author. In accordance with Rule 88 of the Rules of Procedure, the plenary session will decide on this rejection proposal after hearing the rapporteur and possibly the author. The rapporteur, Ms Katja Gabriels, referred to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-26-54-plenair-ip193x.u45	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the motion for a resolution deals with language legislation which is not complied with in any way by local authorities in the Brussels-Capital Region, with all the dramatic consequences for Dutch speakers. There is virtually no bilingualism in Brussels. I assume that you, as good colleagues, have read the motion for a resolution in detail, but you will not escape the figures I would like to give you. When I drafted the resolution, the latest figures were not yet available. As you know, the situation also deteriorates year after year. The figures for 2016 in the latest annual report of the Vice-Governor of Brussels Capital on the non-application of language legislation in the Brussels municipalities and OCMWs speak for themselves: 32.8 % of appointments and promotions in the Brussels municipalities took place in accordance with the language law. Of the 1 338 files checked by the vice-governor, no less than 899 were not in order with the language law. In the OMCWs, the situation is even more dramatic: in 2006 11% of the files were in order. Of the 991 files 882 were not found in order by the vice-governor. It is very worrying to see that this virus, in order to violate the language law, has now also affected statutory appointments. Until a few years ago, statutory relations were still somewhat free from language violations, but this is no longer the case. In 2016, 26% of the statutory relations on the French-speaking side were illegal in the municipalities and 16% in the OMCWs. As always, the Brussels Government's supervisory authority, the College of the Joint Community Commission, does not give at home when it comes to destroying all the appointments suspended by the governor. However, the Brussels Government is well aware that it is legally obliged to be destroyed. The Deputy Governor states in his report that he was aware of well-known 0 illegal appointments that were destroyed. We can therefore rest assured that none of the 1 781 suspended files were destroyed by the supervisory authorities. My limited speaking time spares you the fact that I also hear the figures on linguistic parity, both for higher and lower relations, but believe me quite freely that the situation continues to deteriorate on a linear basis every year. As long as the situation continues to deteriorate, I shall once again consult the relevant Minister for the Interior on this matter every year. I ask him to do something about it every year. Every year I get the same answer, namely that he has no responsibility in it, that it is a matter of Brussels. I contradict this every year, and this year I am joined by the Standing Committee on Language Monitoring, which confirms in its opinion on Mr Vuye's legislative proposal that the federal government is indeed competent to intervene if the checks are not carried out as prescribed. In my motion for a resolution I make a number of suggestions which the government should include in its legislative initiative. As regards the application of language legislation in administrative matters, this legislative initiative should first and foremost deprive the Brussels regional supervisory authority of the supervision of local authorities or at least establish a system which will enable effective action to be taken against Brussels authorities which do not comply with the language law in administrative matters. Secondly, the Minister of the Interior could extend the powers of the Vice-Governor and give him the power of destruction as well as the power of suspension. He could completely withdraw the vice-governor from the authority of the Brussels regional authorities by making him an integral federal official under the authority of the Minister for the Interior. Ladies and gentlemen, the Minister clearly needs the motion for a resolution, this push in the back, because he does not even want to do the minimum mini-morum, namely to bring the dossier to the Conciliation Committee. It is purely about enforcing the application of existing legislation in an efficient manner. Anyone who would be concerned that he or she would break the Community omerta if my proposal were supported, I would say that I am not worried. My proposal for a resolution falls entirely within the Community's standstill. On the contrary, if you do not vote in favour of the resolution, you will continue the further Community decline, which has been going on for years. I am therefore counting on the support of all of you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-26-54-plenair-ip193x.u46	No other speaker may speak. No one can speak any more. The vote on the motion to reject this motion for a resolution will take place at a later date. The vote on the proposal to reject this motion for a resolution will take place at a later stage.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-26-54-plenair-ip193x.u47	The Government requested urgent treatment under Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure, when submitting the draft law on non-recognition of services performed as an unappointed staff member for a public sector pension, amending the individual rehabilitation of the provincial and local authorities within the consolidated Pension Fund, adapting the supplementary pension regulations, amending the arrangements for financing the Consolidated Pension Fund of the provincial and local authorities and additional financing of the Consolidated Pension Fund of the provincial and local authorities, No. 2718/1. The Government requested urgency in accordance with rule 51 of the Regulations when the Bill on the Non-Appropriation of Services as Unappointed Personnel in a Public Sector Pension was introduced, amending the individual accountability of provincial and local governments within the Consolidated Pension Fund, adapting the regulations for supplementary pensions, amending the terms and conditions for funding the Consolidated Pension Fund of local and provincial governments, and providing additional funding for the Consolidated Pension Fund of local and provincial governments, No. 2718/1. Before deciding on this request, we first listen to the government's motivation.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-26-54-plenair-ip193x.u48	Mr President, the urgent request for this draft law is justified by the fact that the draft is the subject of an agreement within the A Committee. This agreement must be implemented with due respect for the modalities agreed. For example, it was agreed that the draft will enter into force on 1 December 2017 and is a condition for the introduction by the federal government of a supplementary pension for its contractual staff. In order to allow the government to live up to this commitment, urgency is called for.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-26-54-plenair-ip193x.u49	I would suggest that we speak on this question. I propose that we take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-26-54-plenair-ip193x.u50	The last distributed agenda contains a list of proposals for which consideration has been requested. You have taken note of the list of proposals for consideration in the agenda distributed to you. If there is no objection, I shall consider it adopted; in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, these proposals shall be sent to the committees responsible. If there are no comments on this subject, I will take it into account as a matter of fact and refer the proposals back to the relevant committees in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 25 October 2017, I also propose that you consider: - the legislative proposal (Mr Roel Deseyn, Mrs Sonja Becq and Mr Eric Van Rompuy and Mr Jef Van den Bergh) amending the Income Tax Code 1992 in order to introduce a tax reduction for adoption costs, No. 2740/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-26-54-plenair-ip193x.u51	- the motion for a resolution (Mrs Nathalie Muylle, Mr Damien Thiéry and Mrs Yoleen Van Camp) on the optimisation of the treatment of idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF), No. 2741/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-26-54-plenair-ip193x.u52	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 25 October 2017, I also propose that you take into account: - the draft law (Mr Roel Deseyn, Ms Sonja Becq and Messrs. Eric Van Rompuy and Jef Van den Bergh) amending the Income Tax Code 1992 with a view to introducing a tax reduction for adoption costs, No 2740/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-26-54-plenair-ip193x.u53	- the motion for a resolution (Ms Nathalie Muylle, Damien Thiéry and Yoleen Van Camp) on optimising the treatment of idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF), No 2741/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-26-54-plenair-ip193x.u54	Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-26-54-plenair-ip193x.u55	This inquiry was developed in a public meeting of the Public Health, Environment and Renewal Committee of the Society on October 17, 2017. This interview was held at the public meeting of the Commission for Health, the Environment and the Social Renewal of 17 October 2017. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 230/1): - a motion of recommendation was tabled by Ms. Catherine Fonck; - a simple motion was tabled by Mrs An Capoen, Mrs Ine Somers, Mrs Els Van Hoof and Mrs Valerie Van Peel and Mr MM. Dirk Janssens, Damien Thiéry et Jan Vercammen. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 230/1): - a motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mrs Catherine Fonck; - a simple motion was tabled by Mrs An Capoen, Mrs Ine Somers, Mr Els Van Hoof and Mr Valerie Van Peel and Mr Dirk Janssens, Mr Damien Thiéry and Mr Jan Vercammen. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put this motion to the vote. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-26-54-plenair-ip193x.u56	Mr. Chair, ladies and gentlemen, you are aware that a conflict of interest motion has been acted on by the COCOF on this bill. This criticism is not negligible since this draft law bases the allocation of INAMI number quotas for doctors and dentists between the Communities on political criteria rather than on scientific analysis and on the needs of each Community. Much of the criticism is elsewhere and especially in what this bill does not contain. This draft law allows and restricts young Belgian doctors and dentists while it opens the door without any limitation to European foreigners. It is unacceptable to give INAMI numbers to hundreds of European foreigners while our own young people are strictly limited to the exercise of medicine and dentistry. This draft does not contain a quota, a reasonable but strict limitation, for European foreigners. I propose, ladies and gentlemen, that the period available following the COCOF motion in conflict of interest should be used to rework this bill and provide for a quota for Europeans. Otherwise, the maintenance of a quota and a limitation of our own young Belgians makes no sense. I hope that we will be able to work on this. It is, Mr. President, a hand stretched to the majority.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-26-54-plenair-ip193x.u57	Start of voting / Start of the vote. Did everyone vote and check their vote? / Did everyone vote and check his voice? End of voting / End of vote. Result of the vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-26-54-plenair-ip193x.u58	Yes 76 Yes No. 58 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 134 Total The simple motion was adopted. Therefore, the motion for recommendation is over. The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motion of recommendation lapses. (Mr Richard Miller voted as his group)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-26-54-plenair-ip193x.u59	These motions were tabled in the plenary session of 26 October 2017. These motions were tabled in plenary on October 26, 2017. Two motions were tabled in the following chronological order: - a first motion was tabled by Mrs Veerle Wouters and Mr Hendrik Vuye. - a second motion was tabled by Mrs Meryame Kitrir and Mr Laurette Onkelinx and Mr Georges Dallemagne, Mr Patrick Dewael, Mr Peter De Roover, Mr Philippe Pivin, Mr Gilles Vanden Burre, Mr Stefaan Van Hecke and Mr Servais Verherstraeten. Two motions were tabled in the following chronological order: - a first motion was tabled by Ms Veerle Wouters and Mr Hendrik Vuye. - a second motion was tabled by Ms Meryame Kitir and Ms Laurette Onkelinx and by Messrs. Georges Dallemagne, Patrick Dewael, Peter De Roover, Philippe Pivin, Gilles Vanden Burre, Stefaan Van Hecke et Servais Verherstraeten. I propose that you vote on the motions in the chronological order of referral. I propose that you vote on the motions in chronological order of their tabling. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? I put to the vote the first motion by Mrs Veerle Wouters and Mr Hendrik Vuye. I put to the vote the first motion of Mrs Veerle Wouters and Mr Hendrik Vuye. Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check his voice? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-26-54-plenair-ip193x.u60	Yes 5 Yes No. [[84]] No Abstentions 44 Abstensions Total 133 Total The motion has been rejected. Consequently, the Court may rule on the other motion. The motion was defeated. Accordingly, the House may rule on the other motion. Mr. Cheron abstained. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]] I put to the vote the second motion by Mrs Meryame Kitrir and Mr Laurette Onkelinx and Mr Georges Dallemagne, Mr Patrick Dewael, Mr Peter De Roover, Mr Philippe Pivin, Mr Gilles Vanden Burre, Mr Stefaan Van Hecke and Mr Servais Verherstraeten. I put to the vote the second motion by Mrs Meryame Kitir and Mrs Laurette Onkelinx and by Messrs. Georges Dallemagne, Patrick Dewael, Peter De Roover, Philippe Pivin, Gilles Vanden Burre, Stefaan Van Hecke et Servais Verherstraeten. Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check his voice? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-26-54-plenair-ip193x.u61	Yes 127 Yes No. 5 No Abstentions 2 Abstensions Total 134 Total The motion was adopted. The motion has been passed. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-26-54-plenair-ip193x.u62	Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 4) Yes 126 Yes No. 6 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 132 Total Consequently, the Court accepts the rejection proposal. The proposal of Resolution No. 1721/1 was therefore rejected. Accordingly, the board adopts the proposal to reject. Motion for a resolution No 1721/1 is therefore rejected. (Jef Van den Bergh, like his group, voted) Do not leave yet, ladies and gentlemen, because we must take a decision on the agenda for the sitting on 9 November.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-26-54-plenair-ip193x.u63	We must proceed with the adoption of the agenda for Thursday 9 November 2017. We must proceed to the approval of the agenda of the sitting on Thursday, 9 November 2017. For the purposes of Article 17, No. 2 of the Rules of Procedure, I propose that the following draft bill and legislative proposal be added to the agenda of the plenary session on Thursday 9 November: - the draft law amending the Law of 15 December 1980 on entry into the territory, residence, establishment and removal of aliens and the Law of 12 January 2007 on the reception of asylum seekers and certain other categories of aliens, Nos 2548/1 to 4. - the draft law amending the Law of 15 December 1980 on entry into the territory, residence, establishment and expulsion of foreign nationals, Nos 2549/1 to 3. - the legislative proposal (Mrs Karolien Grosemans, Mr Peter Buysrogge, Mrs Renate Hufkens and Mr Johan Klaps, Tim Vandenput, Dirk Van Mechelen, Vincent Van Quickenborne, Veli Yüksel and Richard Miller) amending the Act of 28 February 2007 laying down the statute of the military and candidate military forces of the active framework of the Armed Forces as regards the political activities and mandates of the military, Nos 1254/1 and 2. Pursuant to Rule 17, point 2 of the Rules of Procedure, I propose that you add to the draft agenda of the plenary sitting on 9 November the following bills and proposed legislation: - the draft law amending the Act of 15 December 1980 on access to the territory, residence, establishment and removal of aliens and the Act of 12 January 2007 on the reception of asylum seekers and certain other categories of aliens, Nos. 2548/1 to 4. - the draft law amending the Act of 15 December 1980 on the entry, residence, establishment and removal of aliens, Nos. 2549/1 to 3. - the bill (Mrs. Karolien Grosemans, Mr. Peter Buysrogge, Ms. Renate Hufkens and Messrs. Johan Klaps, Tim Vandenput, Dirk Van Mechelen, Vincent Van Quickenborne, Veli Yüksel and Richard Miller) amending the Act of 28 February 2007 laying down the status of military personnel and military candidates of the armed forces' active cadre with regard to the exercise of political activities and mandates by military personnel, Nos. 1254/1 and 2. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] The agenda has been adopted. No observation? [[No]] The agenda was approved. I wish you all a pleasant continuation. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Thursday 9 November 2017 at 2.15 p.m. The meeting is adjourned. Next sitting on Thursday, 9 November 2017 at 2.15 p.m.
