ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-24-54-commissie-ic644x.u1	Colleagues, geachte collega's, I welcome our guests, whom we meet a few months later on the Caterpillar dossier. I ask you to excuse President Vincent Van Quickenborne, who cannot be present. We are less numerous than the previous time, but we thought it was still useful to take stock of the development of the situation in Caterpillar. I have the honour, together with Mrs de Coster, to welcome Mr Antonio Cocciolo, who represents the FGTB; Ivan Del Percio, Chairman of the delegation; and Mr Jean-Marie Hoslet, Secretary of the CSC Metal for Hainaut. Mr Bougard of the Liberal Union will not be able to join us. That is what we have to do with our guests. As I said, the workers' representatives were of course invited, but also the management. The management has sent us a letter of which I would like to inform you, saying that unfortunately it must decline our invitation for today for the following reasons: "The next weeks and months indeed seem inappropriate in order not to interfere with the implementation of the restructuring". Second point: "Management's availability during this period may be limited". Third point: "The date of 24 April 2017 is in any case too close to the Carterpillar Group's announcement of results for the first quarter, scheduled for 25 April 2017", i.e. tomorrow. Last point: "Out of respect for staff, we do not want such a debate to coincide with the wave of departures scheduled for the end of April, the end of May and the end of June". So these are the elements we received from Mr. Jérôme Bandry on behalf of Carterpillar. Nevertheless, the e-mail to the secretariat says: "An exchange from September 2017 seems more appropriate. This timetable will also give the participants the right setback on a dossier that has proved difficult for all the interlocutors." Here, I'll give it to you for information. Having said that and without being too long in this introductory word, together with President Van Quickenborne, we wanted to reunite our two committees, Social Affairs and Economy, to take stock with you and to ask you, who negotiated and followed the file, what is the social plan, this first phase that is completed and the second phase that begins. What about the takeover of the site by the Walloon Region? Are you in dialogue? Who does what about this site takeover and the prospects it can offer in terms of jobs? At the political level, we represent the legislator here. First, it is necessary to determine, based on what has been assessed in the Caterpillar file, which cases should be dealt with as a matter of priority. In the previous debate, a revision of the Renault law was mentioned. We talked about the right of alert. We have talked about the defiscalisation of bonuses and other points. I think that politics must also learn from what has happened. So, in our oversight role of government, we need to see, at that level, whether things are going on and what. Based on the subject matter of our day-to-day discussions, we will be able to continue our analytical work and our work as legislators and comptrollers of government. I would like to point out that a full report will be produced today, as well as for previous editions. Each will benefit from this material available for further work. Without further delay, I propose to give you the floor in accordance with the agenda.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-24-54-commissie-ic644x.u2	Mr President, I thank you for the invitation from the two committees to carry out the evaluation of the Caterpillar dossier. Between us this morning, we considered that there was a real seriousness on the part of Parliament in the dossiers. We are quite impressed: after a few months, we are asked to evaluate this dossier, even though it has been extremely publicized. When we start thinking, it is important to follow up the case, even if a social agreement has been signed, even if there are things that have actually been decided at the level of the Walloon Region and, you mentioned earlier, in relation to the taking of land and the Caterpillar site; it is not an absolute rule in this case either. I think it was also necessary for us to discuss it and see if we had each other in the discussions we had earlier and in the responsibilities, we went to the end of the process. I know that we have about ten to fifteen minutes to express the contents of the file. I think what is going to be interesting for the people who are in front of us is to know a little about the content of the agreement and the state of mind of the negotiations. It is necessary to know who played an important role in the discussions, including the political level, also very present in the framework of this agreement and this negotiation. But I would prefer, with regard to the content and points directly linked to the negotiation, to give the floor to Mr Del Percio, who personally negotiated with the management, even though the federation had to intervene in the last Joint Committee. I believe that 95 % of the negotiation, whether it concerned pre-pensions, site security or the level of premiums, was done by the company delegations. That is why I would prefer to give Mr Del Percio a good ten minutes to explain the content and manner in which he negotiated.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-24-54-commissie-ic644x.u3	First of all, I would like to take stock of the situation before going into detail. This week will be quite special, even if there has been a lull in the media today. But at the end of the week, this Friday, it will be the last day for many workers. The first redundancies will take place from Friday. It is still a step to go, which is not simple. We all have some seniority in this business. Some have worked there every day for more than thirty years, others twenty. And then, we have a slightly younger generation, but that still has several years of work in this factory. As regards the continuation of what has happened since the last meeting, we have actually completed the Renault phase, known as the consultation phase. This phase showed that the workers were in no way responsible for this closure. However, this point needs to be stressed. The workers had done everything they could to make this business viable and enable it to continue. We have analysed this on our side during this procedure: other external elements are weighing, in particular the financial world, and this disproportionate return to dividends in relation to an economic reality, which breaks, like this, a tool that was functional. Caterpillar Gosselies was an important member of the Caterpillar Group. It was by far the least-working plant in recent times. Unfortunately, there were other companies in more serious situations in Asia and South America; these companies were in greater difficulty. This Renault procedure has nevertheless allowed us to demonstrate this to the American management, which has come several times to explain the choice of Gosselies. It must be noted that in any case they could not convince us, whether it was through their argumentation or, let alone, from an economic point of view, that closing Gosselies was the right decision. The reason why we had to move on to phase 2, the so-called negotiation phase, is the length of the file. It's been more than seven months since we were planning to lay off. We explored all the avenues, including the alternative we supported as trade union organisations, which had demonstrated that it was still possible to keep an activity. It was refused without any economic arguments on the part of the American management, who simply told us: "If we do not close Gosselies, we must close another company." But, to the limit, it is not our role to tell them what to do. It is about defending workers and employment. We have come to this social aspect, which has been clearly approved by the huge majority of workers. I think that's a pretty important point. Even if we were against this closure, the starting conditions were accepted at more than 75% by the workers and at an even higher rate by the employees. It is positive that workers leave with, in addition to legal notice, extralegal compensation. However, as a representative of these workers, I will put my finger on this: they were still disappointed by the federal government. I'm telling you as I've been told. We had requested certain terms and conditions and facilities under the CCB, the new pension plan. Indeed, we wanted to reduce the age to fifty-two and a half years because, for us, there was still a continuity of the 2013 restructuring. Our primary goal was to keep our job. But we understood that it was no longer possible. You should know that today, workers are fifty-three years old and that they were younger at the time of the announcement. They will be laid off and will have to get back to work. We need to know that they worked thirty years in a civil engineering company. In Caterpillar, large products are produced. These are not the small Caterpillar machines, but the largest Caterpillar machines we produce in the world. These people are worn out by work. I'm not afraid to say it, because we've known them every day in the company. Today, they are well worn out by work, physically. They're gonna have to get back to work actively, and it's not gonna be easy. That is why we asked, in relation to our activity (it is a heavy job, what we produce in Caterpillar), to have this facility, this possibility of lowering the age to fifty-two and a half years. This was refused to us, in relation to the position taken by the Ministry of Employment. The workers have very badly accepted it; be it the people concerned, and even the younger ones. They are our elders, who have still taught us everything and for whom we have great respect. The second thing that has been misunderstood by workers, concerning this social aspect... When we claim it, it is not that we are against tax. On the contrary, we have always defended a fair, equitable tax in this company at the FGTB level. We know what the tax is for. It is used to finance a whole series of important things in our country. But we are working in Caterpillar, a company in many tax havens around the world, especially in Switzerland. Remember all that has happened with Switzerland, all the threats that we have received from this Swiss subsidiary, especially on production, which we have still assumed until today despite a difficult context to live in. It is a company that therefore has an address in Switzerland to hide its profits. We know that, though. And we asked, in return, to have a possibility of defiance on the extralegal premium that we had negotiated. Not on the legal part and not on the remuneration. We understand that we must contribute to ONSS and pay a tax. This too, unfortunately, has been rejected by the government. These two points have come to attach themselves to the nervousness present in the workshop in relation to the dismissal that we were undergoing. For the rest, there is therefore a pre-pension, a RCC scheme that has been negotiated from the age of fifty-five years, with good conditions for workers, even if, now, with the new government measures, we must remain available in the labour market - hoping that there will be work, because the greatest hope of the Caterpillar workers is to get back to work as soon as possible. We're young. We know we'll have to work again. But in addition, we are at risk of falling back on unemployment, which will soon come for us, because we do not have an experience of twenty-five years of work, because we are young workers, the vast majority of them. On the social side, it is not useful to go into detail. The important point is that a conversion unit will be set up with the local authorities and the Forem. That's a good point for the workers. A large part of the people have only worked in Caterpillar and it is difficult to get back into the labour market like that. The support of the cell will bring a great deal to all these workers. They will be put in place next week and will enable people to be accompanied in a more flexible way with a view to reviving themselves. There will be three cells because we are more than 2,000 workers. They will be in a different map: there will be one in the central region, one in the Charleroi region and one on the Namur side. They will enable workers to be supervised so that they can get back to work as quickly as possible. That's a good thing. On the site, this is a file that has been closely followed by delegations and our federations with local authorities. One of our concerns – in the factory it was said to be the fourth – was that this site was built thanks to the workers of Caterpillar. Even though we had very serious moments of crisis during this period of Renault law, one thing we have always wanted to preserve is the Caterpillar site. For us, this is a well located and very modern site that has been refreshed in recent years. Between 2013 and 2015, there was another €50 million in investment. It is a tool that we have built ourselves and that we will not destroy ourselves. I've always said it all along and we've done it. We wanted to put ourselves in the best conditions in case of a buyer. Then, whether it's in the same product or something, I think it's a little too early. We do not want to give false hopes to the workers but we have tried to put ourselves in the best conditions so that this site can relive with an industrial activity. That was one of our concerns. Follow-up meetings will be held shortly and we will follow them closely. If we're still in the cell within a year or even further, and unfortunately we haven't found a job yet but something would develop in the site, we want to follow this very closely to see what could be done on this site. I would draw the attention of parliamentarians to the fact that the Renault law, after twenty years – as has been said quite often during our long procedure – did its time. More than twenty years of existence. It must be recognized that this law has rarely saved jobs. Renault can be put into law in a preventive way. That means a lot, especially for big multinationals like Caterpillar. So here, we see that even when a viable alternative is filed economically and on the road, the employer has no obligation to take it into account, and no constraint if it does not take it into account. Maybe we have to think about that too. We'd like to go further. How can a company that earns billions of profits still lay off quietly, in a legal way, and even decline or postpone invitations to come to Parliament to explain itself? It is now that the workers are fired and they do not even come to explain themselves. We all felt this arrogance in Belgium in their communication. They have not been heard much to express themselves as in other societies. After Caterpillar, there were ING and others, and there the boards of directors were clearly speaking out to defend their strategy. In this case, there has been little explanation for the workers or even for those who govern this country. Therefore, for us, this Renault law, on many points, needs to be reviewed, especially with regard to the site. In France, when we were questioned by the European Parliament, we learned that there is an obligation to make its website available before announcing a closure. In Belgium, it is too weak anyway. When we saw Caterpillar, there were factories in China, factories in the south of the United States, factories in Brazil that were no longer running in recent years. But here in Belgium, we're closing. I'm saying there's still a lot of research going on here. Why Belgium? We have the impression that it is simpler in Belgium than elsewhere. So we should see through this Renault law, if it is this one that must remain. For us, no, but after that, it's up to you! How can workers be better protected? When I say workers, I also talk about subcontractors. There were a lot of them around us, not all unfortunately represented by a trade union delegation, and therefore, for them, it is directly bankruptcy or it is the closure pure and hard, with no possibility of negotiating anything in addition to legal notice. I think we're defending the job when we do this. When one wants to strengthen the protection of workers, when one wants to prevent a multinational from closing for financial criteria or when one wants, in any case, to highlight the future of the site, I think that all this is still trying also to safeguard or to put oneself in the best positions to save employment. Here, I think I've done a little bit of everything. I would remind you that on Friday there will be about 500 workers who will be laid off and by the end of May there will be about 700 workers. These are the two biggest big waves and the rest will be fired during the year. Every month, there will be a wave of workers who will be laid off. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-24-54-commissie-ic644x.u4	That is a little explanation of the content of the negotiations! Perhaps I would like to draw attention to what I had already said at the time of the first invitation – and you confirmed it again today – is the attitude of the multinational and the multinational leaders. There was a lot of emotion at the time about the aggressive manner in which the announcement of the closure had been made. There was also a lack of management responsibility. I said that at the time: we avoided the worst in this case. You have to know that it's a Seveso company. Some places inside the site are very dangerous: fuel, gas... it could, at some point, have exploded. This is extraordinary, but it is not only the case of Caterpillar: every time we have this kind of file, we realize that the local management is running away from its responsibility. Here, she also fled the site, and for a week we could not contact them to start discussing the content and why of the decisions. I say this because often, in Belgium, at times when social conflicts are common, trade union organisations are often placed under conditions that are not respectable. You see it clearly, here and in Caterpillar as elsewhere: fortunately there are organisations on the common front. I'm not just putting mine forward. They took on their responsibilities, protected the factory and the workers, organized the production and ensured that there was no sabotage within the company. Indeed, we knew that, for one of the FGTB's claims, it was almost impossible to convince Caterpillar's management to reverse the decision to close the Gosselies site and that we had to prepare to negotiate with the public authorities and management. We had to convince them to give up the site in order to be able to keep it in operation, and under conditions of quality, in order to maintain an additional hope to redevelop employment in the Charleroi region. I am going to talk about what is happening today, about everyone's position and responsibility. I am talking not only about the CatCh plan, but also about the will accompanied by a given word, I can also say, today, from the officials of the Walloon Region, on the fact of putting the package to recover the site of Gosselies, which has been done. The announcements were made at the end of December last year. They were ready to use the path of negotiation, while putting into music the more repressive way, the legal way, to recover the buildings and land of this company. So, I think there's also, on the side... we're forgetting this aspect in such a case. When you're involved, you're very emotional and forget some things. It is important to note that it has been recognized that workers, together with the forces of the region, need to have a larger picture and file than is usually done. I am talking here about the issues that we are going to deal with together, with some parliamentarians who are in front of me today. I am also thinking of Carsid, where we have acted in the same way, except that we have left the site, the land and the responsibilities of the future of industrial development negotiated with the management in the hands of it. You see that, five or six years later, we find ourselves with brownfields. If one had dared to invest in the site, the head of Carsid, who is called Gozzi, would have asked for remuneration to revive an investment. You can see the difference in pattern. But it also demonstrates everyone's responsibility in this case. We managed daily life and security. We have negotiated, I think, in a professional way, but above all we have had a medium- and long-term view of the development of employment in the Charleroi region.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-24-54-commissie-ic644x.u5	Thank you, Mr. Cocciolo and Mr. Del Percio, for your testimony and information. I shall ask Mr Hoslet, who is alone but has an equivalent speaking time, to do the same.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-24-54-commissie-ic644x.u6	My colleague told me, before I started, that the CSC alone represented three FGTBs. I'm going to try to do that, although that wasn't my initial statement. I thank you first of all for seeing us. It is clear that the debate is much less passionate than the other time. The hearing here attests to this. If you are ten times fewer, I thank you ten times more for being here and for attaching so much importance to the workers of the Caterpillar company. I'll try to figure it out. In theory, we had ten minutes to a quarter of an hour. It is very complicated to summarize six months of passionate discussions in this period of time. Nevertheless, I think that I cannot save not to do so. The negotiations, first of all, are important, concern only Caterpillar workers. So it is very complicated to explain to the subcontractors that what we have achieved and the purpose of the agreements is only for Caterpillar workers, which some will obviously find unfair. We neutralized the Christmas and New Year period for the negotiations, which allowed us to find a certain humanity in these discussions. Six months of negotiations represent more or less fifty meetings with different interlocutors outside Caterpillar and, at Caterpillar level, intra muros, daily briefings. I assure you, the tension was very important, very palpable. The slippings were eminently about to burst. Fortunately, I congratulate all delegations on the common front for being able to maintain the calm and dignity within the walls of Caterpillar. Seven demonstrations, a few times in Charleroi, Brussels and even Geneva, sixteen assemblies over three breaks, eighteen so-called regional, national and European task force meetings. As you can see, we were not at all unemployed during these discussions. The outcome of these discussions has led to a basic foundation. If we have to take a picture of the outcome of the negotiations: a common basic foundation for everyone, a seniority bonus, because we wanted to highlight the seniority of the workers within the company, because it is true that the older ones will surely have much more difficulty returning to work tomorrow. We thought it was interesting to make a difference between the newest and the oldest. We have also negotiated a 90 CTC, as you know, which is highly dependent on objectives to be achieved. The objectives were no more or less than 240 manufacturing machines. Beyond the emotion surrounding the closure of Caterpillar, we also had to manage the manufacture of 240 machines. On a day-to-day basis, we had to continue working, which was also not obvious in the context in which we had to negotiate. As far as the agreement is concerned, I told you, he is what he is. Today, while I'm talking to you, other negotiations are taking place for subcontractors. Some are unfortunately already closed, others are either in PRJ (procedure for judicial reorganization), or in liquidation, or in Renault law. The demands are clear. For us, it was important to have discussions about workers' achievements. In many cases workers receive company certifications. For example, a driver's licence for a forklift, welding, or other equipment. We strongly stressed the recognition of competency validations. In our view, this should be an obligation. When you have obtained a diploma or recognition in a company, it is necessary to have it recognized by a validation of skills. It is a group that exists but that makes sure, when you are in a conversion unit, to highlight your achievements in companies and put them to use for other new employers. For the little story, you should know that if you don't negotiate a sum for training within the conversion cells (I also find that the word "cell" should be changed because when you are fired, and you are told "no worries, we will go to the cell"" it is very clearly pejorative and difficult to digest), the Forem gives you 125 euros. That's the exact amount you're given to train a worker. So if you are not in a large company, if there is no trading in the company, you have 125 euros to train, which is clearly insufficient. Thanks to the negotiations conducted by the delegates, and I thank them once again, EUR 2 285 000 will be made available to the workers. I take my hat off the people who negotiated it with the help of the federations. Another cornerstone when you lose your job is the CV Training. This is a tool that follows you. It is a computer CV where the employer and the worker normally have to keep up-to-date a list of skills. This CV Training is mandatory in some Joint Committees but is not binding. So, quite often, it is when it is too late that we find that the CV Training was not done. If I could send a small message here, if it were possible to increase this sum by 125 euros and make this CV Training binding on all the Joint Committees and everywhere, it would really be a good reclassification tool. At the level of the public authorities, I am going to be more succinct because my colleague has already said so. We asked three things, of course: the RCC at 52.5 instead of the 55, for the simple and good reason that for us 2016 is the continuity of 2013. By 2013, they had already decided that we would close. They thus saucissoned the file in two, pre-pensioning, finally, thanking the majority in RCC. In fact, 95% of the 1,200 people who left in 2013 left under CCB coverage. RCC, damn it, they're no longer pre-pensions. When you're in the CCR, it's a supplementary income, an unemployment, which means you're supposed to be an unemployed worker looking for work, actively. It doesn't cost the community anything to be in the CCR, but it does give you the obligation and the company, if you are laid off, to be looking for a job and you have an employer supplement. It's a way to make multinationals pay. If we could have had the RCC at Caterpillar, 461 workers might not have had to face a possible decline in unemployment benefits. So, that's what we created without lowering the age of pre-pension which, obviously, was possible before and which was not possible for the Caterpillar file. With regard to taxation, as my colleague has said, it is clear that we are not asking for taxes and social security contributions. Here, we are asking for compensation in the outcome of the negotiations. It was extralegal and it was a complement to the workers. We have been heard in a task force by a representative of the Ministry of Finance: "If you want more, you just have to negotiate more." But, for God's sake, how unpleasant it is to receive this kind of information, our aim being not to evade neither taxes nor social security but to consider other than wages a bonus that we had wanted for workers, a moral compensation bonus for example. The land and the buildings, I'll come back to it later. I did not want to go very far in terms of subcontractors but I have some figures: closures of Sotrewall (12 workers), of a Caterpillar store within the company, of TIH (4 workers), of Carwall (212 workers), restructuring in Yusen Logistics, you have certainly heard about it, Eutraco (153 workers). As you can see, the subcontractors have been very misled in this negotiation as well. And I think, unfortunately, they won't have the chance to come and speak here. As my colleague has told you, there will be 22 cells, 2 200 workers, one cell per 100 workers; 22 conversion cells which, for Wallonia in any case, are considered to be cells for employment. One in Namur, two in La Louvière and the balance on Charleroi. There are three waves of layoffs. Management's right. It's not all over yet. Psychologically, it's clear that with the days that go by, it's very complicated at the human level to live this on the ground, when you last empty your locker. Six hundred workers leave us at the end of this month, 500 next month, the balance in June. Now I'm going to talk a little bit about the Renault law. You talked about it. I think the Renault law is perfect. In fact, the whole thing is to know if everyone around the table is in good faith. If everyone is in good faith, I think the Renault law is well done. We give ourselves time to think together; we give ourselves time to find solutions together. But when a multinational company decides to close in 2013, it is not at all binding either. As my colleague said, if the decision is made, it is taken. You may prove by a+b that it is possible to save 500 jobs... These 500 jobs were put on the table by executives, people who knew very well what they were doing, people who compared the cost prices in Japan, China, etc. It was proven that it was a clear beneficiary in Caterpillar to leave 500 workers in Gosselies instead of outsourcing. And in spite of everything, they can say no as they please and sweep the proposal with a back of their hand. The Renault law, I think that if we had a right of alert, a right of blocking - and I will not say co-management as sometimes in countries like Germany, there are also other tools, that is clear. In Saint Roch, in the south of our province (since our organization covers Namur), we were able to save the company by declaring a PRJ, because the shareholder wanted to drop the company. It is a tool that can also be used when a local management takes responsibility and wishes to have a judicial reorganization procedure. There are tools. The whole thing is to know also the margin of negotiation that the local management of Caterpillar had, or not. In this case, I think they unfortunately had none. There are tools. The whole thing is to know if people are of good composition and want to try to find solutions. As far as the announcement effects are concerned, I would still like to make a few remarks. Even before the end of the negotiations... As a citizen, in addition to living in Charleroi, it is clear that when we are announced a CatCh plan that will create 10,000 jobs on the site, it is really very enjoyable. Unfortunately, we are not used to hearing this kind of news. However, when you work in Caterpillar, the negotiations are not yet over, you are not yet "dead" and some people are already building on your grave, frankly, it is not very pleasant. We could have announced this CatCh plan a little later. It didn't matter how fast it was. I assure you that maintaining calm in the company when you already feel condemned by some, it is sometimes very complicated. Moreover, I think that some workers will never believe in obtaining land and buildings for the symbolic euro. These negotiations take place at the same time as those involving workers on the ground. Again, from a chronological point of view, it would not have been a good idea to announce it at that time. To conclude my speech, I will say a few words from the CatCh plan. We also have a chance to meet with Messrs. Thomas Dermine and Jean-Pierre Hansen on the 10-year plan and forecasts for the creation of 8 to 10 000 jobs. I'm going back to what my colleague said. The West Gate was discussed in Charleroi. It is a former steelworks, where one finds the arm of the Sambre, an arm of the canal and a railway station. The CatCh plan does not take this into account at all. How is it possible, when drawing up a plan, to apply it only to Gosselies, whereas, ten to fifteen kilometers below, there is an immeasurable logistical possibility? If these plans were really ten years long, it would have been interesting in my view to add to them all the surrounding zonings and to really discuss the development of the great Charleroi and not just Gosselies. It is clear that, if the CatCh plan is to introduce more flexibility and to set up a free zone, we fear a boon effect that would attract, not distant investors, but neighbouring investors who, by disembarking in Gosselies, eventually evade taxes or other taxes. Charleroi deserves better than becoming a Chinese canton. We do not want people to work, while dying of hunger. So we don't want an infernal spiral that consists of giving reason at least so-called. In conclusion, I once again congratulate all workers on their dignity. Thanks to their negotiations, it seems to me that they were able to satisfy the workers, since 75% of the workers and 95% of the employees and executives voted in favour of the agreement. As a last resort, I would say that negotiations were concluded at the Ministry of Employment and Labour two days in a row, without food or heating and water. We very much hope that this does not involve a disinvestment in social and collective relations, but that it is only an example of surrealism in Belgium. "See you in ten years' time in the place of the Great Men," I thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-24-54-commissie-ic644x.u7	Mr Hoslet, you are talking about surrealism to Belgians about the plan for social negotiations; I am not going to go back to that. We talk about it very often. I am used to treating Mr Peeters ironically by telling him that he is the minister of social consultation. That is to say, he has nothing to do, simply because we cannot say that there is much social consultation. You say it yourself: it's surrealism to Belgian, and we're used to this kind of thing. It is still sad to hear that you are meeting without anything, without heating, in a place that depends on the federal state. I assume we will have the opportunity to question Mr Peeters on this. It will be once again. Beyond that, I'm a little frustrated and I guess you are, too. When one announces the closure of a large company, all the television cameras and all the journalists are there, but obviously also all the parliamentarians, and even even parliamentarians who perform very high-level functions, and even presidents of their own party. And forward! Everyone makes matamoresic statements. We don't want to see that anymore, this must not happen again. It's a real scandal. The cynicism of the world of capital - we even hear this in the mouths of people who are not used to this kind of talk; we will see what we are going to see and the direction will feel the wind of the ball. Today, I am telling you clearly, for my part, I have more respect for the workers than for other parliamentarians who are not here today. As you said: we ensured the protection of the site, and the production on the site, which put the trade unions and the workers in good conditions to negotiate. The only positive thing that I recognise in the previous hearing that we had, beyond the Matamores statements of each other, is the statements of the company's boss, so the financial director, who finally, after our repeated requests, came to admit the harsh reality: it was a redundancies of stock exchanges. Dividends have to be made for shareholders. Workers have nothing to blame for. It has nothing to do with the competitiveness of companies. It has nothing to do with Belgian taxation. It has nothing to do with the level of social protection, with the social security contributions that some call expenses. It's a dividend problem. We're dealing with overproduction, we're dealing with dividends, we're closing a business. It's as hard, as aggressive and cynical as that. And a few weeks later, the boss of a bank, ING, – you alluded to it just now – said exactly the same thing. You're talking about that acidity that comes up from your stomach and it's not just physical because, socially, you've negotiated hard, with the help of your affiliates, there were two elements on which the government could act. The starting age: it is true that the law has changed but there were possible derogations. ... 52 and a half years. Unfortunately, while we could make the comparison with Ford Genk where, there, the workers got it. I do not want to make communityism here but 52 and a half years, it was quite possible above all that there was a logic, it was the restructuring of 2013 since the company's boss himself said: "we did a first restructuring, we made the company competitive but here we are in this logic that we are facing an overcapacity of production. We have to ensure the dividend to the shareholders so we close the company". These are his own statements. It's logical continuity. 2016, this is the sequel to 2013. So why not ensure the same treatment for workers who were laid off in 2016 as for those in 2013? It was sufficient to justify this by way of derogation. I think that would have been the least of all. I would also like to stress what you are saying because it is felt at times that you are wicked revolutionaries for whom the tax is unfair and therefore there should not be any. Let us recognize that the challenge of the premium and not of compensatory notice payments, since it is salary, it could also easily be resolved and done. There have been Matamores statements "We'll see what we're going to see and we have to help the workers and Caterpillar and it's a real scandal" but, unfortunately, we're far from the word of action. I'm going to talk about what could be done. I think this is the most important thing when you come here to the federal Parliament: what can we do? So, Mr. Hoslet, you say the Renault law is good, if everyone plays the game. But agree with me that the right of alert is not in the law and that on the other hand, the most important element is that if people don't play the game, there is no possible or imaginable constraint. So, in relation to that, shouldn't this be the first demand of the workers? Firstly, that the right of alert be included in the Renault law, and I will then ask you for your opinion on the discussions that are taking place for the time being. Secondly, to go through a constraint. I go further than you, that is to say that the redundancies of stock exchanges cannot intervene. Maybe I'm going a little too far, but that's it!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-24-54-commissie-ic644x.u8	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-24-54-commissie-ic644x.u9	The proposal is filed. I have been asking the government to vote for it for several months and I have been systematically referred back, and that is why we are going to talk a little bit earlier about the negotiations in the Group of Ten, about the magnificent proposals that have been made by the Minister for Social Concertation. I'm still going to ask you for your opinion on this. Beyond that, at the outset, the Renault law is the accompaniment to the dismissal. Shouldn't the paradigm be reversed, the way things are seen and, in the context of enterprises with a certain importance in terms of employment and a certain impact on the economy of the country or on the economy of a region or subregion, in relation to that enterprise, the prohibition of stock-exchange dismissal, yes, but beyond that, the obligation to put an alternative plan on the table and whether this alternative plan is implemented or the obligation to take into account any alternative plan that would be implemented? Because what you have told us is that managers work, they have the courage to put something on the table, which is not simple either in relation to a company that works in a global economic context and has said: "I don't want it, I'm in overcapacity", but, despite everything, finds a reason for the economic existence of the company and beyond the reason for the economic existence of the company, that of the outlets. It's no use producing if everything stays on the parking lot of course! How could one see the obligation for the company to take into account and apply any alternative plan that would be put in place, either by the company itself or by a third party, external person, here in particular executives? So it is often said, and somewhere you answer it by saying that we have never seen the Renault law save the slightest job in twenty years. But it is also something that is put on the table as a repulsive: the obligations to make the sites available. I am not saying that they must necessarily make it available free of charge. But why not? It would be honourable in the head of the company to do so, from the moment we know that those who helped build the site are the workers, even before the shareholders who have never made money available, and again, most of the time, it was state aid and defiance, etc. When, in your opinion, should the obligation to make available occur? At the beginning of the procedure? Should the announcement of a restructuring and closure of the company be included in the law that I must make the site available? Or should this be part of the package? I heard Mr. Hoslet earlier, and I'm saying that, too, because I heard him as Carolo. Some had the impression, at some point, that the company was giving up the site for a euro, that this was done at the expense of the premium workers could get. We heard him. We even read it in the South Press group. It's good press, it seems, everyone thinks what they want. The question is whether this should be concomitant, later or planned from the start of the application of such a major restructuring. As far as subcontractors are concerned, I am obviously in favour of subcontractors being taken into account – it is in the bill on which I am on the initiative. In your opinion, as representatives of workers' organisations, from what level of employment dependent on the main undertaking can it be considered to be a subcontractor? Some suggest that the subcontractor is 100%. It is therefore 100% of the turnover that depends on the parent company. I no longer call it a subcontractor, I call it a subsidiary. But, according to company law, this is not the case because it may not be the parent company that owns the shares. Is it 50%, 30%? The criterion could be that the termination of the collaboration with the main undertaking endangers the viability of the subcontractor. I would have liked to have your point of view in order to shed some light on this matter. Your comparison between the Carsid site and the Caterpillar site shows that you must have mastery of the tools or in any case the possibility of obtaining mastery of the tools. It is, therefore, either the reform of the law on expropriation on the grounds of public utility. It still depends on the federal government. I didn't see a government proposal on the table, while some of you suggested you go back to law firms and were even willing to give you names. This could have been settled in terms of a bill. This could be resolved in the context of restructuring. It's true that it shows that if we don't want tomorrow to turn into a wasteland, if we want to do economic development tomorrow, we have to take this case with us. In order not to be too long and to respect everyone's speaking times, I will end by asking your opinion as practitioners, here actors of a social agreement that took a while, the time it took, with a particularly cynical direction opposite. But I would like to repeat, as some have forgotten, and it was the same in the context of the ING dossier, what Mr Hoslet said here in Parliament: 'we will pay what we will have to pay'. By implying that if the RCC was lowered to 52.5 years of age, if the supplement had to be paid, they were prepared to pay for the supplement. So, as I say here clearly, it is all the more cynical, not this time in the head of the company but in the head of the government, not to grant you this derogation because in any case it would have cost him nothing since it was the employer who paid. Here, the Caterpillar group or the ING group. Who at some point will be accountable for this, but you, as practitioners, what is your vision of things with respect to the proposed changes or improvements put on the table by the federal government? Some see these proposals as such, under the Renault law, and they are currently under discussion in the Group of Ten. I thank you for your attention and once again, if you would like to convey to all your affiliates, the deepest respect we have for them, for the way things have happened during these many months when we have almost never heard of Caterpillar again. To such an extent that we can say that the discussions went very well, that there was no blackmail, that there was no kidnapping. We were waiting for you at the turn; I think you have taken up the challenge. Unfortunately, it wasn't the case for everyone.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-24-54-commissie-ic644x.u10	Mr President, gentlemen, thank you for this presentation. I'm not going to castigate each other, the ones who are present or not. I find it interesting that we can meet you, hear you and ask you, perhaps, a few more questions so that we can continue to follow the file. Even though I am not Hainaut and know less than some of Caterpillar's situation, it was a case that interested me and I looked at it. I have a few questions to ask you in two different facets. First of all, in relation to the site and its future, I saw, like everyone else, that the site had been valued at approximately 140 million euros, that it was sold by Caterpillar for 1 euro, but that there were clean-up costs. It appears that $5 million has been provided for clean-up. First, is that correct, since it has not been discussed today? Do you think that's enough? If it wasn't, would the Walloon Region replace it? I imagine the site's tool... you said it yourself, this site was especially for large machines. If the site were to be reconverted for companies structured differently, active in new technologies, high technology etc., should the clean-up not be more important, deeper, than the one evaluated by Caterpillar? That's a question I wanted to ask you. Also regarding the deadline; Caterpillar says he has 18 months to leave the site. After that, we have to clean up, it can take a while. We know well, and this has been mentioned by my previous colleague, that a site that is not used can easily fall into waste. We saw him, you quoted Carsid. I'd like to have some details on that. I also read during the negotiations that a farmer occupied part of the site. What if, indeed, there were to be buyers? Is there a real lease on the farm? Was it like that? Was this kind of thing not known and was it historical? Another thing is training. Training is of particular interest to me, because I was a member of the Education Committee in the Wallonia-Brussels Parliament. I have often found that we are not sufficiently in phase to support those who lose their jobs. I have heard that, in the context of this conversion, you have obtained particularly high amounts for training. You also pointed out that workers had a goal, especially young people: to return to work. It is therefore extremely important that these formation cells be reinvigorated. Will Forem really dedicate some of them to Caterpillar in order to ensure serious follow-up? I know of people who find themselves unemployed and who find it difficult in the world to establish fruitful contacts with Forem, because they are made to wait for 15 days each time, so that they lose all the motivation and energy needed to find a job. That is why I believe that Forem must play a role in the conversion of workers. I also heard Mr Hoslet express his disappointment at the way in which the conversion plan had been approached through the CatCh project and the 10,000 jobs that would be created before 2025. In terms of communication, I can understand that this announcement was somewhat premature. However, the existence of work opportunities in the region is to be welcomed for all those who lose their jobs and young people who will be able to find a job. I would also like to know what is the future of the tool. Are any leads explored? Will Caterpillar take it back or leave it at the disposal of potential buyers? Have you obtained a guarantee for this tool? Finally, do you know who participated in the expert group? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-24-54-commissie-ic644x.u11	Mrs Detiège has also asked for the floor. I very much appreciate that a Flemish Member is also taking the floor in the discussion.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-24-54-commissie-ic644x.u12	First of all, I would like to thank the gentlemen for their clear statements. It is important that there be an evaluation. As Mr Massin said, there was a lot of fuss in the media when the layoffs were on the rise, but after that people hear less and less about it. I am pleased that many French-speaking colleagues from different parties are present. At the same time, I am concerned that very few Members of Parliament are present on the Dutch-speaking side.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-24-54-commissie-ic644x.u13	A few months ago, they were more numerous, but not today.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-24-54-commissie-ic644x.u14	I find this distressing, because collective redundancies are very topical in Belgium and throughout Europe. As Mr Massin said, the Presidents have made a lot of promises, especially given that these collective redundancies have an immense impact not only on the workers but also on their families and the municipalities where they live. I'm from Antwerp myself and I've been through the layoffs at Opel. Residents of Kapellen, Stabroek, Ekeren and all the municipalities around the factory have experienced the immense impact. It was said at the time that everyone could get back to work, but the figures show that the younger people in particular have moved on to a new job, while workers over 50 years of age find it extremely difficult to get back into work. I think it is extremely important that those policy makers who have promised to take action and to do their best to prevent collective redundancies should take action. I see with pain that I am the only Dutch-speaking Member of Parliament here. I will inform the other Dutch-speaking Members that they need to take a little more initiatives. I also expect the government to do so, because it has control and can conclude agreements. Minister Peeters certainly plays an important role in this. I have just said that it is not obvious to find work again. I support Mr Massin, who calls for the same package of measures as for the restructuring in 2013. Half of the employees over 50 years of age, who were then fired, apparently still have no job. That has been a while now, but I will give it to those who are here so that they can take it to the negotiating table, because that is important. I am glad that there are still some exceptions. As we have said on several occasions in plenary sessions, it is all good to keep workers working longer, but they must find a job.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-24-54-commissie-ic644x.u15	First of all, I wanted to thank you for your presence here, for reporting on these important negotiations, which we have been following closely. Thank you for coming back to Parliament and telling us about it. We see that not everyone has this concern for the democratic process and the representation of the eleven million Belgians, since that is what this is all about. Whatever region or city we come from, I feel particularly concerned about everything that has happened in this case, and about your testimony. I think we really are facing something fundamental, all together. Indeed, workers, workers and families are the first to be affected, but I think, in any case, I hope, that we are all extremely affected by what has happened and what continues to happen. Unfortunately, structurally, the system is, in our view, not yet reformed so that we can fully cope with the possibility of new social tragedies as we have experienced in Caterpillar. I also wanted to thank you for your commitment, for your energy, for the time you spent negotiating on behalf of the workers. This is fundamental for the thousands of families who have been affected by the announcement of this closure. You talked about the results. It can always be thought that at some point, we could have done it differently, but I still believe that your work is really to be welcomed. With the energy you put in it, we see that it is something that has necessarily kept you at heart, especially when we hear the conditions under which you negotiated. It will also be the subject of a question that I will ask, probably with other colleagues. I almost fell off my chair when you talked about the last few days of the negotiations. I really wanted to say that at the level of my Ecolo-Groen group, we have been involved since the beginning of this dossier. We are truly aware of the tragedy that the thousands of families have experienced. I think it's important to say that, because in a case like this, we're all affected again. We do not know, tomorrow, what other company could be the victim of such redundancies. We do not know which sector of our economy, our Regions, could be affected. It is important that we be very united and realize the impact of such a tragedy, but above all that we can respond politically and economically to it at the level of civil society actors. This is, of course, the most important thing today. Like other colleagues, we have made many proposals, which we have tabled and re-tabled, because they already exist. I am thinking of the ban on redundancies. Explanations such as those given here or in the press are totally unacceptable. As you said: the quality of the infrastructure of the Gosselies site, the quality of the training of workers were reminded in the envi. The Renault procedure allowed you to explain it, or in any case allowed, although I do not know if it served anything, to push management to recognize that it did not have anything to do with quality, whether it was the labour force or the Gosselies site. These are important things. Reimbursement of public aid are also texts that we have tabled and which are fundamental to us. The inclusion of subcontractors in the Renault law. It has been repeated, but it is obviously fundamental. The framework of transfer pricing: it's a little more technical, we haven't talked about it, but we know how much it has played an almost decisive role in the specific case of Caterpillar and all the manipulations or tax tricks and tricks that are around these transfer prices and that also need to be reformed. Control, transparency of the activities of multinationals. You talked about Caterpillar's tax flows through Switzerland, Delaware. We've seen the tax constructions. That is completely unacceptable. We must also be able to act at that level. One last point I would like to mention, because it is important in terms of worker support, is the postponement. We have, for example, a text on the postponement of mortgage credits for workers who are affected by such closures. I also wanted to express two regrets about our meeting this afternoon. The first one you explained, Mr. President, is the absence of management. At some point, we must also be able to denounce him. I do not know what the means we have at the level of the parliamentary committee are, but simply accept that we will perhaps see in September if we have a chance to hear them, it does not seem acceptable to me as it is. Either we send them a firmer mail or we mobilize. It's not the most important thing, but there's still a question of respect. You've moved, you've come, you're giving us a report, there's no reason for management to debunk under cover of important timing. Timing is always important. We mustn't hide. I do not know in practice what can be done, but in any case, to express discontent through a new letter on behalf of the Committees on Economy and Social Affairs, it seems to me a minimum. I would also like to say a word about another regret. I do not want to be a politician, but when I see the assistance of the Members present, frankly, I am embarrassed for them, I am embarrassed for us. I am not going to quote such and such a party, that is not the point. But I think it's an indecent limit to receive you under these conditions. I'm personally embarrassed about that and I don't know how to do it in the future either. We do not have any coercive means to bring Members into committee. In addition, we are here in committees together. It is a shame and it is not at all up to the issues and discussions that we have here. I wanted to ask a few more questions about your testimony. With respect to the federal government's actions, or the federal government's rejection of the demands and disappointment you have expressed, whether it is for pre-pensions or the defiance of the extralegal bonus, I was wondering if it had had a concrete impact on what you could negotiate, or especially what the workers could get at the end of the road. Do you think there was an additional leverage effect? For pre-pension, we can imagine it, but in general, with the challenges of premium taxing, could we have imagined more favourable conditions for workers if it had been granted. I'm thinking about the bonus, because for pre-boarding, it's coming from the source? So I was wondering what the impact of that refusal was. That's what I want to understand. Compared to the supervisory cells you mentioned, the three cells set up to supervise workers and support them in terms of job search, I wanted to know in concrete terms how they structure themselves. Are you also involved in the functioning of these cells? Could you say more, also in relation to your experience of the past? Unfortunately, this is not the first restructuring, here closure. I wanted to know if at that level you were able to draw positive experiences from workers who have returned to work. What are your perspectives on these cells put in place, based on your experience and the means deployed to frame them? Even though the ads were more or less happy or unhappy, I also wanted to go back to the CatCh plan. I think it's important that we have a positive outlook. We hope and will commit ourselves, at the level of ecologists, to make sure that it moves and that we can create quality jobs, lasting, anchored at home, on the site. It's fundamental. You repeated the announcements, but I wanted to know what your concrete expectations and your level of involvement in this process were. I know you're around the table, but in terms of the sector, the potential for conversion of the site or its situation, its infrastructure, do you already see things, which create expectations, legitimate in your head? Finally, I almost fell off my chair when you talked about the negotiations at the Ministry of Economy the last two days. We will question the minister because it is more than surreal! It's making fun of the world. I dare not imagine that this is a negotiating strategy. I dare not imagine it, but nothing is impossible. It's really, at least, amazing. We'll question the minister. I do not know to what extent he will answer us objectively. It is still an element in this file that is quite shocking. Thank you in advance for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-24-54-commissie-ic644x.u16	Mr President, gentlemen, thank you for being here today. I'd like to thank you, rather, for anything else. Above all, I would like to commend the work that has been done by the trade union organisations during all these months, by you or by all the delegates concerned. This still represents a significant amount of work. Above all, it was a crucial two-pronged issue. Firstly, for the daily lives of the workers concerned, in the context of Caterpillar. Recall that the way in which the decisions were made and the announcements of the decisions were made by Caterpillar was particularly brutal and disrespectful for the workers. You recalled some of the decisions that have been taken on relocation. They do not go to the end of the world, since they also go to Grenoble, let us recall. In this case, as far as Grenoble is concerned, it cannot be said that the cost of working in France is excessively different from what it is at home in Belgium. We can all the more salute you because it is a social aspect that is accepted by the vast majority of workers. I'll be back in a minute on the RCC. It's a good social component. I would like to stress, as you have done here, how essential the part on training is indeed. We know, and this is a chance for Caterpillar workers, that they have a high level of expertise, which gives them, at this stage, a lot of chances in the niche in which they have this expertise, to have a strength to be able to get back to work. At the same time, the training component for tomorrow and the day after is essential as a reclassification tool. In the social sphere, certain aspects are obviously negative. Thus, I do not know how the government was able to justify its position on the challenge of the extralegal bonus. There's also the RCC. I see something paradoxical. The efforts made during the 2013 restructuring were, first and foremost, made by the workers. But they are not well rewarded. Indeed, the federal government's persistence in maintaining the tool penalizes workers in terms of age. In this case, 451 of them have not reached the age of 55. This seems to me to be prodigiously unfair in view of the efforts that have been made in the meantime. Of course, I would be curious to know - and I will ask Minister Peeters about this - the arguments on which the government turned down the pre-pension. We compared the situation with Ford Genk. That's right. But, in my view, the most unfair aspect is that the efforts of 2013 were sanctioned. This is a real problem. I remember the first debates. I spoke at the very beginning on this aspect. However, I had agreed that the government should not speak immediately on the subject, so as not to facilitate Caterpillar's task. That makes sense. At the same time, I would have found it just as logical that the government could commit itself. I guess it's irrevocable. As the agreement was signed, I would have liked to know if, from your point of view, it was irrevocable. Whether that is the case or not, I will ask the government about it. I would also like to remind my colleague, Gilles Vanden Burre, that the penalty is double the number of persons concerned. On the one hand, they have their unemployment benefit, but without the company supplement, which does not cost the State, since in this case it must be paid by Caterpillar. But the double aspect of the sanction comes from the degressive nature of unemployment benefits. The 451 persons between 52 and a half and 55 years of age will in fact be penalized against this non-acceptance of taking into account the continuity of the restructuring since 2013. I'm going to the field section. It was existential for the future of economic development in the region to have this land. I have heard the comments on the CatCh plan, and I can totally understand that for Caterpillar's relatives and subcontractors, who are still in an extremely difficult and delicate situation, I can imagine that the telescope announcement the end of the negotiations. I think if I were concerned, I might have felt the same way. So I can hear you. I'll talk about the perimeter again, which is important. What is the geographical consideration? Are we simply staying on Gosselies or are we going to consider a wider perimeter? I still have the impression that this question is not completely locked up today and that it can still evolve. I hear the message you're sending. That's right, it's not in the head of the federal government, but it doesn't matter. This is something that I will again draw the attention of colleagues, and of course, of course, of colleagues in the Walloon regional government. The last point I would like to make, Madam President, is the Renault law. Rather, these are issues that I would like to address with you. I don't think we should rush. Now, we're no longer in the rush of the start of Caterpillar's terrible announcement. But, at that time, it seemed important to me to take sufficient step back from Caterpillar's pre-announcement and I do not regret it today. There are elements that are good. We must always be careful, when we rework a law like the Renault law, that in fine, we do not create new pitfalls. In the background, it's not that easy. If we were certain of a positive development, we would probably have done it for a long time. I have no doubt, moreover, that the representatives of the workers - since you still have particularly efficient study centres - would have said: "This is what we must sink into the Renault law." At the same time, some aspects that have weaknesses can be identified. The big question is how to change the law, with what methods and when? I wanted to turn to you on this point. How can we possibly conduct this debate so that it is effective and positive, so as to avoid the pitfalls that I mentioned? Should this be done at the level of the G10 or the National Labour Council? Some people are represented on both sides. Or should we rather form a small behind-the-scenes working group with all those who are potentially interested, to prevent everyone from working in their own corner? We're always smarter than we are on our own. Could we then work on this in a working group, even an informal one, to try to move things forward? Do you have any ideas on this? I'm interested in hearing you. In any case, I believe that this could move the debate forward. We're two and a half years away from this legislature. There is also a momentum, that is, if you think you have to do something and you have to do it under this legislature, you can take a year to work. I think it might even be very interesting to associate majority and opposition on this issue. Because then we are obviously more fortunate – it's a bit of realpolitik – to be able to complete this dossier. That is why I am talking about an informal behind-the-scenes working group. It's always easier because when you're in public space and there's media, each one has his muscles. I'm not targeting anyone and I'm including myself. I don't want to target anyone today. Perhaps it is a good technique but you may have another one or perhaps it has already been decided at the level of the trade union organisations and that a place of negotiation X has already been identified. I'm interested in your opinion. There you are, Mr. President. And thank you again, gentlemen. And thank you first and foremost for the workers concerned.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-24-54-commissie-ic644x.u17	Thank you very much, Mrs. Fonck. If I do not have any further requests for intervention at this stage, I will return to our guests, in the same order, for answers and reactions to the various stakeholders.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-24-54-commissie-ic644x.u18	What was expected of the government in relation to what had been put on the table? Indeed, there were large statements on the day of the announcement. Everyone was shocked by Caterpillar's method of communication: an American who disembarks, whom no one knew, who had never set foot in the company and who so announces a closure in twenty minutes. It was unexpected, even by us who were in the company. After that, there were some big statements. We knew that the Renault part of the procedure, the social part, is the responsibility of the trade union organisations. It was not expected that the government would interfere in the discussions. We heard strong statements and when at some point we needed a strong gesture, as the workers expected, we still hoped. In addition, our requests were legitimate, particularly in the context of the CCB. There is the degression of unemployment for those who will not be RCC but also the whole problem of assimilation. When you are in the CCB following a closure, it is equivalent to 100% for the calculation of the pension. But when you're fired outside the RCC regime, there are minimal assimilations. The failure to benefit from the CCR therefore has a triple impact. There is also the whole problem of defi-calization. When you see what Caterpillar has hidden in Luxembourg and Switzerland over the last fifteen years, it's about billions! Not to mention Bermuda and Delaware, when you see the listing of their assets in tax havens, it's crazy! We can also see that even in the United States, the FBI of Finance did a search of Caterpillar, precisely for their lack of clarity on the tax side.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-24-54-commissie-ic644x.u19	IRS.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-24-54-commissie-ic644x.u20	Yes. Finally, we see that there have been searches, seizures, while here in Belgium, we have still been quite shy about this whole part. On the most important part for us, the conversion cells: there were conversion cells within the framework of the workers of Caterpillar, and then a cell will supervise all the subcontractors. So even those who are not represented by a trade union organization have been informed. All those who suffer a dismissal due to the closure of Caterpillar have the possibility to be accompanied even if they do not have a Caterpillar contract. For us, the most experienced delegates will be involved in this cell. This is very important for workers. Forem, ONEM, for someone who works with us, it's ex officio control. This should not be seen as such. I think that with the knowledge that we have of workers, we will be able to explain that here the service is just trying to get under the best conditions to find a job. That's why we're going to serve too. Unfortunately, there was no room for all delegates. Those who have more experience, the negotiators who know the social aspect, will be able to accompany the workers. We're not in resignation. I think you've seen him before during this whole fight. And still today, even if it's our last week of work, we have to move on. It's a page that turns. It's hard to live, but we have to move on. Our will, in any case, for those who will be accompanying, is to be active in this conversion unit. It's not about staying here and trying to pass the months. We are already taking back the professional past of this company ourselves. In this way, by knowing the workers, if we ever know that there are opportunities in the coming weeks or even in the coming months, we can try to orient them as quickly as possible in search of a new job. That's our goal. Some workers have already returned to work in sectors such as SNCB. That's the name I hear the most. That's a good thing. What is a bit of a shame is that the conditions are not always the same as at home. This is a bit difficult to digest for workers, including hourly wages, or even the contract which is not directly an open-ended contract. I think it's a good point to get back to work. It also motivates others. If the climate were that "all those looking for work have received negative answers", this would not be good for the general climate. This is not the case. A whole series of workers have found work. It's already good to turn this page and move forward in this cell. I just wanted to refer to the government. When we went to the European Parliament, Alstom's closure had made the headlines in France at the same time as Caterpillar's closure at home. Although it may have been a French company, we have seen the difference between a government that acts and has directly pushed society back. We were on the same schedule as them, since it was announced almost at the same time. We have seen the example of a political power that has taken on its responsibilities and managed to push back a society. He was not specifically asked for the same thing here, but we see that initiatives have been possible elsewhere, when they are not taken at home.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-24-54-commissie-ic644x.u21	To answer some questions about the agreement signed with the public authorities and Caterpillar, ma'am, you have the right numbers. The value of the site is well estimated between 135 and 145 million euros, but this is the case when the company operates. For lack of activity, the value is not that announced by the press. In any case, the one you mentioned is correct and is the subject of negotiation. That said, it's not just the land and the buildings. Caterpillar leaves 75% of its assets on the site. This therefore means 75% of the investments made in 2013. Remember that, in the negotiations on restructuring in 2013, we, as a trade union organisation, had demanded, in exchange for the efforts made by the workers (1,400 people dismissed at the time), a new flexibility – as if there were not enough –, a new capacity to produce high-value machines, an investment of 150 million euros to modernise the company. It was done at 95 per cent. This means that the assets that Caterpillar leaves today are not old machines, but high-tech machines that were planned to assume the new models in 2015-2016, at least, until 2021. Therefore, 75% of these assets will remain on Caterpillar's site, which wants to be still responsible and owner of the company until June 2018, because they need this time to be able to dismantle the 25% of assets they are likely to divest to other Caterpillar companies worldwide, since they are machines that are specific to Caterpillar. I think they will still need it, even if today – and Mr Massin is right – they are in overcapacity. But I think at some point, the civil engineering sector is going to restart. On the issue of negotiation, the result is the symbolic euro. As for the problem of pollution, a convention and a negotiation have resulted in Caterpillar putting five million euros on the table as part of a possible clean-up. But it must be borne in mind that Caterpillar is not a sector of the steel industry. Consequently, the pollution of the land and the site is minimal compared to another sector of the steel industry or a blast furnace. Secondly, the clean-up, which is not that of another sector, was already done in part in 2013, when they introduced the new technologies in Buildings B and D, which are the two buildings where the majority of the investment was made. There are therefore no great risks in the discussion. There is no cat in a bag that could cause, in a few months, you to end up with a clean-up cost of 30, 40 or 50 million euros. It won't exist. In addition, I believe that the negotiation of public authorities has been excellent. Indeed, in the event that, during the future dismantling, not by the multinational but by future buyers, some pollution would be detected, the financing of this decontamination would be done by SARL, so Caterpillar Switzerland. I think that on this side there is no great danger about the recovery of sites. I come to the problem of the existence, today, of a buyer or not. It has been months since at the level of the Walloon Region, in symbiosis with the Sogepa, a work unit accepts or meets the potential buyers interested. There are farfeluses. I got company names. About 20 companies have approached the Walloon Region and Sogepa. They were somewhat sorted; of the twenty, five or six were more or less serious. People from the region, Europeans, but also Russians and Chinese are ready to invest in the same sector and in the same products, i.e. agricultural machinery and even industrial trucks. The discussion is taking place. In the head of the Walloon Region, they are right to be quite discreet about these approaches because there is also a part of confidentiality in relation to their states – here I am talking about Russia and China. I think the latest information we've had is that the contacts are not broken. We expect, in the coming weeks, to have as much information as possible. On the other hand, journalists sometimes make mistakes about future investments and those closer to the Walloon Region and the CatCh plan. The CatCh plan comes in parallel with the Caterpillar site and investors in our sector. Jean-Marie Hoslet has a position that I respect and he is right to be suspicious. This may not be the first time that organizations have been disappointed by decisions or implementations of certain mechanisms. However, I would prefer that we start and that the forces who live decide on investments, put all the political, industrial forces into a project, even at the age of ten, to create jobs, rather than having no intervention and no decision! I know where I am. I know that in the last ten years our region has suffered numerous closures in the steel industry: rolling mills in the Ruau, Carsid, Arcelor-Mittal and others. We have every interest in being attentive, without being euphoric, when we are told that it would be possible for all the living forces of this country to be interested in the region of Charleroi. In the CatCh plan, we had the decision, but I don't know what level it was taken, to consider our region as a free zone. It was also something that had been requested in other files but not obtained. In this case, the region is considered a free zone. I'm surprised at what Jean-Marie Hoslet said. Ms. Fonck explained that the discussion is not closed on the space in which the free zone will be applied. I'm told it's 40 kilometers and the epicentre is Caterpillar. I therefore believe that anything that Caterpillar is concerned with within a radius of 30 to 40 kilometres would benefit from new jobs and a 25% reduction in professional discount. I'm not euphoric, but it exists. We will pay attention to the effectiveness of these decisions. As a trade union organisation, from the beginning – I think some have said – we have consulted all decision-making and negotiating bodies. We went to Geneva to put pressure on SARL Caterpillar, in Strasbourg to try to convince MEPs on the difficulty of managing these situations, but also to receive help on saying that if this happens in Caterpillar, we must at some point use this dossier to think together so that it does not happen again, putting the intelligence of everyone at the service of the workers and the population of a state. We still want to be everywhere today, whether at the level of the Walloon Region or at the federal level. We are included in a European task force where we are present because we know today that everything that was possible to do as a trade union organisation we have done. I'm going back to what the environmental parliamentarian said earlier. I don't blame politicians. I see that we probably don't have the same agendas. It is easy, emotionally strong, to make big statements because you know that the press will challenge you and that perhaps, without being paranoid or disdainful of your function, it could be a plus for future elections that take place every three or four years. We're not in that timing. We are in situations of dismissal in which people are not reduced to numbers, numbers. They're not statistics, they're people we see every day. When we meet them, we are under an obligation to deal with them immediately, but not in order to pass in the press or for future elections! That's because it's important to them because we look them in the eye but also for their family and especially for a region. What is often forgotten, particularly in the case of the closure of a multinational, is the loss of direct jobs. Subcontractors will also switch. Jobs in an entire region are affected. Schools, hospitals, doctors, social services are affected, not immediately, but in a few years. So all this worries us and our function does not allow us to play with the people who are in front of us. I am not criticising parliamentarians. You may be right to question those who have power today, and the commands to change the policies of this country, but you must not be mistaken: people need you. People are often said to be apolitical and disdainful of politics because they are far from them. That's not true. And Ivan is close to me to testify, every time we met them in difficulty – and we were doing our job as a trade union organisation – they said to us every time, "Go question them, they must not abandon us". In the role you have every day in your office, remember that behind you, there are all those people from Caterpillar, who are also your voters. Beyond the voters, they are people in regions, in cities, who also very much expect of the political function that you exercise. So I fully agree with you that what is going on must be taken seriously, that the people, the workers, must be taken seriously. I do not want to be miserabilistic, but in the region where I find myself, poverty may be more visible than elsewhere, and we have this responsibility to try to make a difference.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-24-54-commissie-ic644x.u22	Thank you very much, Mr Cocciolo and Mr Del Percio, for your answers. This also gives us some interesting insight. It is sometimes interesting to have nuances or differences of appreciation. I think that's what our exchanges are all about. Mr. Hoslet, same exercise. We also listen to you in reaction to colleagues.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-24-54-commissie-ic644x.u23	I sincerely believe that, if we have been able to complete this issue, it is because we have been on the common front from the beginning and we will remain on the same front until the end. Nevertheless, that is not why we must agree on everything. As Carolo in the City of Charleroi, I want to say that I am very proud that the Walloon Region has obtained this land and these buildings - and I thank him for that. My criticism focused on communication, not on substance. Don't throw the baby away with the bath water. I'm coming back to the closing announcement. I think it all started in 2013, when we're pre-pensioning, so we're firing 1,200 people. To the remaining 2,200 people say: "You will have to face challenges both technologically, but also in terms of profitability." Not only did we have to pay for the RTTs we had already received, lower costs and meet technological challenges - the famous Tier 4, which is a product of identical mechanical commercial value, but which does not or does not pollute. This made it possible to place Caterpillar first in terms of environmental standards. At the political level, creating such standards, but making them non-binding, makes it possible for you to develop perhaps the most appropriate tool to meet environmental challenges, but if you do not make them mandatory for the buyer, it is obvious that, if he has the choice between buying a 2CV or a Mercedes, he will buy the first one in order, eventually, to make the same move. So when we develop environmental standards, let us not only ensure that they are respected, but also that they are mandatory. Giving Caterpillar Gosselies the opportunity to sell only in Europe, because before the company also sold in Africa, has led to a reduction in the number of potential customers. So when we had Tier 4 in 2013 only for Europe and not for Africa, the decision to close Caterpillar Gosselies was already made. Nothing has moved since then, and it is clear that what has been very far from us is that Mr.Polutnik, the site manager, told us in June that we had met the challenges and that he was proud of us: "You were able to make this Tier 4 technologically and you made it profitable if orders came to the site." And despite that, we close in September. It is in June that we are told that if we were to close a site in Europe, at the limit, it would be Grenoble, and that is why I will come back to it, because Grenoble became a prey for the cat. Grenoble, on the logistical level, was much less good than Gosselies. At Gosselies, at equal pay, we produced machinery in a much more cost-effective way. Mr Massin, the Renault law is certainly perfectable. I said it earlier. But the question must also be asked: if there had been no Renault law, what would we have done at Caterpillar? I would agree enough with Catherine Fonck to say that we need to change it, and that we need to find alert rights and possibly have observers on the board of directors. And maybe in 2013, if we had had this right of alert and as of 2013, we had an observer in all the discussion posts, we could have warned more about what happened in 2016. The Renault law goes with it, it's clear. But let's not forget that in the beginning, we don't go with anything. That's an intention. It's not a closing decision, and we tried to prove that the intent was wrong. Here, too, it is clear: when we can prove by a+b that there is a management plan to save 500 jobs, and that it is not binding either, this means that in this case, the Renault law is totally ineffective, if no one wants to play the game. That's what I tried to say earlier. It is clear that some politicians have said that they will return to war over the land. We're going to expropriate, we're going to wage war in Caterpillar. We had the chance to travel with my colleagues here. We were able to visit Caterpillar China, and discover Caterpillar in Brazil. In China, the land and buildings belong to the Chinese. And if you leave the company, you have to leave the land and the buildings. So it exists. Why don't you do it? We have to stay "sexy", let's not forget, in relation to multinationals. We must attract them, but we must ensure that they remain. So, as far as the land and buildings are concerned, it is clear that I would not see that these buildings would be transferred again to another multinational. It is necessary to ensure that the land and buildings are kept and to leave this as a sine qua non for the eventual acquisition of low-cost land and buildings. Mr. Massin, you're talking about subcontractors. I want to make you a proposal. It turned out that Caterpillar made commercial contracts with several subcontractors in the Charleroi region. The abandonment of this two-, four-, ten-year commercial contract, which resulted in the creation of a business that was viable during those two, four or ten years... Why not include a social clause, when there is a commercial contract and this commercial contract is unilaterally challenged by the principal? This clause would ensure that there are fines to be paid and that these fines are eventually used for a social envelope. Because today, my friends, here next door, and I have to try to have a social plan in subcontractors where there is no money, because, closing the business, there is no fat to go for. Why not then provide for a disappropriation on a commercial contract that should not last? As for the law on expropriation, it is clear that we must work on it, because what we are living today, unfortunately, will come back to life later. We must of course stay "sexy" to attract, but we must ensure that businesses remain. In all the steps we have taken here, we must not confuse the local leadership with the leadership of the group. I think that, humanly, the local authorities have done what they could do and I thank them for that. On the other hand, it is clear that on the very day of the negotiations, this famous weekend without heating, without water and without food, when Mr Thompson shows up and says: "Messeurs, if you do not have a solution at midnight, all my proposals are obsolete", it is clear that the leadership of the group is unforgivable. She's inhuman. I want to report it again. Madam de Coster, when you talk about 140 million and the clean-up costs, I think my colleague has answered you. We have to make a distinction. Caterpillar is a hundred hectares, three buildings. There are buildings that have been soldered; I do not think there is a lot of pollution. On the other hand, there was a building that housed machine tools, where there was cutting oil. There may be a slight de-pollution to operate. The third building is Building E, the assembly. Overall, I do not believe that there will be any extraordinary remediation to be carried out on the site. Maybe we're not going to grow it overnight, but I don't think there's gonna be any bad surprises. You talked about training. Unfortunately, our schools no longer know how to supply workers in line with the expectations of the companies, because of the high technicality demanded by the companies. When you get out of school, you have to be an IT expert, you have to be able to work on ten different machines, be quadrlingual; it's very complicated but I think my colleagues and I are trying, especially through training tools like TechnoCampus, Technifutur, etc. to best meet these expectations. At the Forem level, for the first restructuring, I think the Forem was not ready, in 2013, to accommodate 1,300 people at once. On the other hand, I have the firm conviction that today Forem is able to meet the expectations of the workers and precisely to train the workers of Caterpillar according to the demands of the future employers. I think it's also done thanks to the Walloon Region and Caterpillar. New employers, investors will be able to ask for a certain profile; an attempt will be made to meet this profile through the negotiation of the €2,285,000 that will be made available and the efficiency of the centres of competence. As far as CatCh is concerned, as a citizen, we can only welcome this announcement. When I was talking about perimeter, my colleague is right to ask questions. CatCh appeals to all investors and companies more than 40 kilometres away. My remark earlier went beyond that. You have to look at all available sites. There are plenty of zonings, such as the old hospital in Jumet, which is empty; at a stone throw in Caterpillar, several zonings could have, as far as the perimeter in square meters is concerned, been part of the CatCh plan. At the logistics level, Carsid was a nice logistical investment since two arms of water plus a station, it would have been interesting. There, it is true, remains the problem of clean-up. For your Dutch-speaking colleague, it's clear that returning to work after 50 years is very complicated. This isn't the first time we've talked about sponsorship. Sponsorship is one of the solutions. Finding suitable jobs for people over the age of 50 is also very important. But what I think is important, especially humanly, is to make people over the age of 50 sick. They can't do it when a single company unilaterally decides to dump them in the container bin. They can't help it, and now they're being blamed because they don't find jobs, which already 20-year-olds can't find. It's shameful and dramatic. Mr Vanden Burre, it is clear that, if there is a redundancies, it is proven, it is proven, there should be compensation. I referred earlier to the idea of possibly making a scholarship available to subcontractors who, unfortunately, will be bankrupt tomorrow and who will not have a social envelope. The reimbursement of aid must be part of this. The obligation to surrender the land as well. Postponement of mortgages. From the start, thanks to the bar of Charleroi, some lawyers who were aware of the announcement made available. But today, everyone still has their pride. In plenary, they dare not say that tomorrow they will have financial problems, that they may have to resell their house, that the next day they may divorce. I assure you it's not populism. There have been several suicides due to business closures, because we divorce, we lose the house, and then we face alimony or other. I assure you that we will unfortunately relive this. Thanks also to the Bar of Charleroi for its availability. These will be more individual cases, rather than collective ones, which we will have to discuss. It is clear that we are active in the employment cells. Indeed, most union delegates will be called upon to become social accompanist. It's very important. In Carsid, for example, we were able to discover that workers could not read or write. When you place them in front of an officer of the ONEM, the Forem or elsewhere, it is difficult for them to get naked. When he's a co-worker, you're more likely to do it. We need to re-ennoble our workers and highlight what they know to do every day, but they may not be able to express it orally or in writing. We have several ASBLs such as Read & Write and other tools that we can highlight. That the social worker is a trade union delegate of the company represents a great added value. It is clear that there will be Caterpillar cells and mixed cells, with social accompaniment from other companies or who work for an indefinite period as social accompaniment. For the CatCh plan, it is certain that we must make it attractive at the company level. There must be - and this is the case - R&D, but the target audience must be Caroloregian or from the Charleroi region. Not all our children have become engineers. Similarly, not all of us have a master's degree or a bachelor's degree. We will favour the number of square metres over the number of workers who will be employed there. If we want to solve certain problems in our city, we must respond to its population. To answer Mrs Fonck, it is obvious that Grenoble, as I said earlier, will be a bird for the cat. Grenoble without Gosselies, I don't believe it. My colleagues were right to ask why it was easier to close a site in Belgium than in France. These are questions that need to be asked. As I said earlier, the training must be in line with the start-up. We are now two years old. So CatCh won't start overnight. We must use this time to try to meet the worker profile desired by the new investors. I think we have tools to do that. Technocampus is in the process of being validated for skills. The site was made available for lifting and other equipment. Together we try to have a dynamic in order to get up. RCC 55, why not create a ratchet? As it is proven, in 2013, we were entitled to pre-pension at 52.5 years; today we were not entitled to it. Why not plan a ratchet? This means that when a company is hit and challenged, if the challenges are met, so much the better, if they are not met, so much so. But those who were able to leave in 2016 should have the same rights as in 2013, otherwise they are punished twice, if not more. Because with degression, it will be much more complicated for them. The Renault law, let's not just buy it. Indeed, an informal working group should be established. We really need to start not only from the theory of the Renault law but also from the experiences and see how the head of a Renault law was raised. Because many SMEs have used the Renault law, and it has worked. This means that when people want, it can work. When a law is written, it is in a certain spirit, but then the way of understanding is quite different. Finally, I would like to send a small message. All the studies show that for a society to function well, for Europe to be better tomorrow, it is necessary to reindustrialise. Everyone says so. In the French elections, everyone said so too. It's 40% of the industry that's needed. In Belgium, we have fallen drastically to 25%. Reindustrialization of Belgium must not remain a vain word. Industrial work remains structural. As my colleague said, it was because of the industries that we were able to have hospitals and schools, that we were able to stand up and create real wealth. It is also thanks to industries that we have created waterways and ports in the north of our country. And I think it would only be fair to give back tools to the different regions that have created this wealth.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-24-54-commissie-ic644x.u24	Gentlemen, thank you for your testimony. Your answers were complete and constructive.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-24-54-commissie-ic644x.u25	Gentlemen, I would like to thank you for your different answers and for the opportunities offered. You mentioned the areas with which there may be opportunities. We must keep an eye on it. I would also like to take the leap forward with regard to the reindustrialization of our regions, a challenge of which we are unanimously aware. I will express myself more in accordance with our vision of things: we must put in place tools to allow local anchoring and ensure the participation of both local workers and entrepreneurs in order to avoid such threats in the future. We also have visions regarding the anchoring of workers in their company such as co-management through cooperative systems. A lot of things are possible and must be developed in order to achieve this objective of reindustrialization. But anchoring in our regions is the current challenge. I have the impression that this idea is shared fairly widely and I thank you for these necessary reminders but of which we are aware.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-04-24-54-commissie-ic644x.u26	Before concluding with thanks, I would like to point out that if I did not intervene in the first round, it was because my colleague Eric Massin did well in marking the intervention of the PS group and did so with great relevance. I didn't need to complete his interventions. At the end of the discussion, on the organisation of this exchange, together with Mr Vanden Burre and others, I am somewhat disappointed by the lack of participants, especially since I am on the initiative of this joint committee. I thought it was our duty to follow up. We followed, through the media and in different ways, what was happening, the different phases, the discussions and the votes, the hope of jobs at certain times followed by the cold shower, to see that we were still at zero. As a commission, we had to leave a trace of this second meeting. I come back to Mr Vande Burre's question: what about management? I think it is up to the two committees to define their work. When we talk about the organisation of work, both in social affairs and in the economy, the point can be raised, or even in the Conference of Presidents. Why did management finally come the last time? As a result of an initiative by the Conference of Presidents which sent him a letter bearing three signatures, that of the Speaker of the House, and that of the Presidents of the two Committees. This led to a first meeting with the three presidents, and that was where they were convinced to come. So there was a process, in the context of the media pressure of the time. I therefore want to say that both committees and the Conference of Presidents can discuss whether and when to re-invite management. We are now in the beginning phase. Does it still make sense to do so in September? That is the very relevant question that you raised. I refer to both committees and the Conference of Presidents to determine what action we will take. In any case, there will be a trace of this exchange as the two previous ones. The report will be available outside. On the other hand, I would like to go back to what Mr Del Percio said, namely the question of the emotion experienced. Of course, the announcement was a shock, a trauma. It takes time to accept this kind of event and the idea that things are like that, when you've been working in a company for five, ten, fifteen, twenty years or more. It takes a time of settling, and we can understand it. But I guess the last week, or the last day, when you said "we're gonna empty his locker," there must be a very strong emotion. The coincidence of the calendar means that this first wave will leave at the end of this week. The too few Members are certainly aware of this too. I have, alas, experienced other closures of smaller companies. I am from the region of the country, which was also an industrial region. I am always marked by the attachment of workers to their work tool and to their company. Saint-Roch still exists. There have been other closures before. This was very noticeable in the first phase of hearings. "It's a modern company, we've reinvested in it. It's a jewel, and we'll close it." There is always an attachment, regardless of the company, especially when you've been there for years. We understand that psychological shock is very difficult. Then we have to reconvert, go to another job. I remember living the closing of Cartomills in Mettet. These were 70 workers; the multinational was making profits, but in fact, it makes more money by closing than we continue. Several years later, we still meet former workers of Cartomills who gallantly returned to work in a region where unfortunately, there is not enough for everyone. I wanted to stress that aspect. The third point is political responsibility. First of all, there are the missed acts that have been pointed out. The question of the RCC, the defiance of bonuses... Unfortunately, I think everyone has to take responsibility for this, beyond the beautiful speeches of September 2016. Then there is what we can do as legislators. We have to agree. Some are in the majority, others in the opposition. I think Catherine Fonck's suggestion on the Renault law is good: to set up an informal group and to find a consensus that makes sense. The Renault law was passed after the shock of Renault Vilvorde. Even if the law is imperfect, we don't know it until after. It's time to tell us. We must see with what good will or not we understand the question. I think it was a useful but imperfect answer in its time. Today, twenty years later, we realize that we need to go further. I think there are some texts that exist. We must now put them on the agenda and try to find a consensus between each other. It is a great principle in representative democracy: it always takes an arithmetic majority to vote a law. I therefore think that, whatever the number of Members still present at the end of the sitting, this meeting was not unnecessary and I would like, on behalf of all, to thank you, Mrs de Coster, President Van Quickenborne and myself, and the secretariat, for taking the time to come back and for giving us a testimony which I think is very useful to Parliament. Thank you.
