ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic768x.u1	There are ten combined questions. I suggest that we deal with them in order of submission, but that everyone tries to be concise anyway. The Minister will give a detailed answer. I said earlier that confidential information files are available to the committee. I would ask everyone to limit their speaking time to a maximum of three minutes. The Minister will give a 20-minute answer, he said. Then, of course, there is the possibility to reply. I also ask that not everyone repeats everything, since most of the questions are on the same subject. Mr Calvo, since it is a topical debate, you may also intervene, even if you do not have a question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic768x.u2	Mr. Chair, Mr. Minister, in the SBI and Paradise Papers case that we are dealing with, there is a double scandal. The first scandal is that a Belgian public company (the SBI) is co-shareholder of an offshore company, Infra Asia Development, created in the British Virgin Islands by the firm Appleby and quoted in the Paradise Papers - knowing that the SBI had among its administrators the number 1 FPS Finance, Hans D'Hondt. This is the first scandal. The second scandal is that the main shareholder of these offshore companies is the holding company Ackermans & van Haaren (AvH), via Rent-A-Port, and that this holding company has many links with political agents. It is something that had already been noted and had already appeared in the press, but now it is both a question of conflicts of interest and an involvement in a tax haven. These multiple ties, for example, are Alexia Bertrand, administrator of AvH, who is also the daughter of the President and Chief of Staff of Deputy Prime Minister Didier Reynders. The same Reynders has two relatives on the SBI's board of directors: President Jean-Claude Fontinoy and his former Chief of Staff Koen Van Loo. There is also Frederic van Haaren, who is the agent Open Vld and administrator of AvH. Philip Heylen, CD&V Agent, is the manager of AvH and Rent-A-Port. Marc De Pauw, Open Vld, is also manager of AvH. He is also chairman of the board of directors of the public company Credibe, an empty shell which includes among its directors a certain Hans D'Hondt. There is a double link of FPS Finance Steering Committee Chairs with Ackermans & van Haaren. In the opposite direction, there is also a non-political, Marc Stordiau, who is an AvH executive and sits on the board of the Induss Intercommunal Board, which is active in the same Vietnamese port with SBI, Ackermans & van Haaren and company. There is also André Gantman, N-VA, who is President of Induss. According to him, "It was AvH that pushed us to invest in the port in Vietnam." I think that makes a lot of conflicts of interest. Prime Minister, my questions relate to both aspects. On the presence of the Belgian State in an offshore company: who in the SBI knew that an offshore company was one of the subsidiaries? Who in the SBI has decided to refer to this company as a company based in Vietnam rather than the British Virgin Islands? On the basis of what motivations has the SBI invested in this port project in Vietnam? What is the precise activity of this offshore company Infra Asia Development? What is its turnover and profit for the last year available? Since its inception, has Infra Asia Development paid dividends to its shareholders? Why was this company established in the British Virgin Islands via Appleby? Why was the same company Infra Asia Development kept in the British Virgin Islands? Although it appears that it is also registered in Panama, it remains visibly among the British Virgin Islands societies. Why didn't we just abolish this British Virgin Islands company? In which country are the benefits of Infra Asian Development taxed and at what rate? Is there any suspicion of corruption in this case? Have you asked the tax authorities to investigate this case or have you requested a denunciation from the prosecutor's office? Are you considering conducting a survey of SBI practices, knowing that there are still coincidences, conflicts of interest like those I pointed out earlier, and that the SBI Chair is also mentioned in Kazakhgate? Some of the latter's other practices are sometimes considered doubtful, including by some of the CEOs and former CEOs of SNCB. Have you requested an investigation of the SBI or are you planning to do so? It is true that the Court of Auditors had carried out an investigation, but it would be good to see, in the light of the new events, whether a new investigation is not necessary. Given the many conflicts of interest I have cited, do you intend to take action? If so, which ones? If not, do you find this type of conflict of interest normal? Finally, do the SBI and other public institutions have other common interests with the Ackermans & van Haaren Group?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic768x.u3	Mr President, we have held the debate on government investment through tax havens here in committee following the draft law that would regulate the provisions of the FPIM management agreement. I simply want to repeat our position today, a position that was shared in words by everyone, in particular that we should ban public investment through tax havens. The argument at that time was to settle that in the management agreement. If we want to lay down the chalk lines of the management agreement in the law, this should be one of those chalk lines. The introduction of such a ban in the law would be clear and clear, and also unavoidable when the management agreement is to be concluded. I understand that the Minister announced last week that he is going to present a comprehensive analysis. I have also been informed today through the secretariat that there is a whole note of eyes only available, but I assume that the Minister will give a summary of it in a moment. In that respect, I would like to know what this analysis has to do with. Mr President, we voted on the draft law here in committee. We voted out the ban. That bill is still to be presented in plenary. I think there is a possibility, after we have heard the Minister's analysis, it was at that time the argument to wait for this to be settled in plenary. I've been doing some checking. There's a precedent. At one point, it was found that the Belgian Investment Company for Developing Countries, a bit similar to the FPIM, made investments through tax havens. Then, in 2013, the law was amended so that investment through tax havens can no longer be made. This has also changed practices in the Belgian Investment Company for Developing Countries. Alexander De Croo went through the fire before that; that mentality has to do with that. So it's possible. There's been a legal ban before. That is why I am once again calling for this ban to be included in the draft law. Can the Minister go along with this, once the draft law is before the House for discussion?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic768x.u4	Mr President, Minister, I am not going to repeat the speeches made by my fellow Members, especially those that dealt with the facts. A few times from that, too, but well... we know what file we're talking about. Actually, we're gonna have to cut the file into two pieces. A first part relates to the question of how a government enters such a structure. The second part raises the question, quite simply, how such a thing could have survived and remained under the radar, in a sensitive period of time. That period has been going on for several years. We are talking about an investment that is going on for a little over twenty years. Those are the two main questions. I think it is interesting to address a number of individual aspects in order to try to formulate a more detailed answer. What was the motivation to step into such a construction? The structure of control is, of course, of the utmost importance. How is this statutory arrangement set up? Who were the members of the Management Board and the Management Committee in succession? Why was there an intermediate holding through Hong Kong later? For the general public, it is interesting to know whether or not a tax advantage has been obtained by the construction. Who picked the benefits of that? Purely for the statistics: when exactly was the construction of the BMI set up? As for the decision-making process, who initiated the case? Who approved it? Were external advice sought on the construction? How was this reported to the shareholders? For the future, it is important to make very clear to the general public whether or not this is unique. Or are there still cases like this? If there are still, what are we going to do about it in order to avoid it in the future? Mr Vanvelthoven has put his amendment on the table again, as it were. We said at the time that it was too limited, we could even move on. However, we asked that the Minister be given the opportunity to work that out with a view to the management agreement. I repeat: you can even broaden your amendment, but give time to examine it carefully. We are absolutely in agreement on the content. Finally, such companies also have a supervisor. Who's that? How is it that this construction is not mentioned in the annual reports? Those were my questions, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic768x.u5	Mr President, Minister, when we talked about the Paradise Papers, we said that this was yet another insult to our SMEs and workers, who are suffering from heavy tax systems, even one of the toughest in Europe. Then suddenly the State also appears to be present in one of those structures. The State appears to be happy to be present on the Virgin Islands. In fact, we can talk about tax leaks, as I said earlier, because we see taxes just leaking out of our state treasury. The highlight of the whole story is that a number of people are on the board of directors of the BMI and that coincidentally also the top man of the FPS Finance, Mr Hans D'Hondt, is part of it. It's quite striking that all these people have never seen anything if anything happens. Looking back to the past, the Dexia story didn't see anything either. Again, they haven't seen anything. It has never been referred to in the annual accounts. It's never been in there. If the correct data isn't in there, those financial statements don't add up. One may wonder whether this should not be given a legal tail. I hear Mr D'Hondt say that it was never mentioned at that time. He is no longer part of it, but four years ago an additional company was created, an intermediate vehicle in Hong Kong. Even then there had to be a light or did that just not come up? Maybe that's not included in the annual accounts? In last week's debate in the Chamber, you said you'd be doing analyses. I am therefore very curious about the analysis. We've heard that we can look through some documents. I hope, however, that you will give a decent and comprehensive answer here too. After all, there is still such a thing as public access to administration. Mr President, I have the impression that all kinds of documents are increasingly kept out of the public by applying the system for your eyes only. In my view, this procedure should only be applied in very exceptional cases and any application must be sufficiently justified. I am asking questions about public administration. The public, our people, is entitled to answers. Even if names appear or painful situations arise, I believe that the population is entitled to that information. Minister, what is the state of the analysis that you have been able to make so far? What are the results? Have you developed any plans or measures based on that analysis? I do not mean that specifically for the BMI, but in general. Are there any other instances where a similar story could arise? Will you take action against this? Did you ask your administration or Mr D'Hondt why they didn't see anything?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic768x.u6	Mr President, Minister, during the topical debate in plenary we have already had a first introductory speech. You announced there that you would have an initial investigation carried out. That investigation has already taken place and we have been able to look at the relevant documents. This shows that questions can be asked as to why such participations or indirect participations are possible or why the acquisition of a company in which such a connection with a tax haven is possible for investments made by the government. That seems to me to be a first step. A second important point that we can get out of that note is that the definition of a tax haven is still very acute today. We still do not know which countries are tax havens or are not. This is not clear to the public institutions either. In plenary, we drew your attention to the list of tax havens. If we look more closely at the various units of certain institutions today, questions can also be asked. Hong Kong or Malta, can they or can they not? There are still some holdings in these countries. In order to avoid any journalist writing that in a few days' time, I'll tell you today. There are still countries that could possibly be listed on the shortlist of tax havens, in which institutions have holdings. These are countries that are not on the list of tax havens today. The British Virgin Islands were actually the only exception to the participation in the Vietnamese investment there. We may also wonder why this has never been reported or why some years have been wrong in the annual report and have not even been mentioned for many years. That is a question that can be asked. Participation has been maintained for several decades. It can be seen that the annual reports sometimes mention the address, but not the right address. In some years it was not mentioned. The question is why no one has ever noticed this and no one has asked questions about it, not even the supervisor of those investment companies. The general question is who is carrying out this control. Can we expect this from the revisor? Does he have a job to do? As a minister, who should point out that such constructions are intertwined? What are you going to do with the other holdings listed in countries that are on the short list of future tax havens or to be added?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic768x.u7	Mr President, I am not going to repeat the questions that have already been asked. I think there are two problems in this case. A first problem which emerges from the case before us is that before the transfer to Hong Kong there was, at some point, an indirect Belgian presence - in other words, a public financing company - in a tax haven. In itself, this is a problem. And there is no doubt: it is a tax haven within the meaning of Article 307 of the Income Tax Code. The question is whether the acquisition of an interest in an entity in the Virgin Islands was due to fiscal or other reasons. If it's for other reasons, what? I think that this should be clarified. Therefore, what prevented the SBI management from declaring that it could be part of this project provided that it was not in an entity located in a tax haven? Why was there not, at some point, the reflex, the decision not to engage in a project involving a tax haven? This point remains to be clarified because, according to my reading, we do not have any elements that allow us to answer this question. The head office of the company concerned is therefore transferred to Hong Kong on the basis of a management decision which arrives late. On the subject of Hong Kong, one can have a slightly more nuanced approach, considering that this State is not included in the list of countries covered by article 307 of the Income Tax Code, nor – unless I am mistaken – in the list of countries covered by the Global Forum on Transparency and Exchange of Information. Nevertheless, Hong Kong is regularly cited as the starting point for tax optimisation systems. I refer to the literature on this subject. What seems to me to be the motivation behind Hong Kong's choice is the fact that there are lawyers' offices there, that it is a financial centre where there are consulting companies, etc. It seems to me that this kind of characteristic exists in other countries as well. I therefore hope that we can be told whether, here too, it is tax grounds that have led to the move of the seat to Hong Kong. It is true that there is a double taxation convention with Hong Kong, but experts explain that it allows for many possibilities of tax optimisation. That's the first part. There is something that seems unacceptable to me. At the same time, let us be forward-looking: on the basis of this case, does the Minister of Finance decide to make a complete screening of all the takeovers of our public investment companies? Screening must cover the basic level, i.e. direct participations in a range of entities, companies, investment funds, but it must also be ensured that companies, funds or structures in which participations are taken are not themselves present in tax havens that there is no presence by cascading effect. If the minister leads this screening, what means is available and when will the answers be available to us? Mr President, I wonder: can we talk about the elements contained in this dossier?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic768x.u8	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic768x.u9	I would like to mention, in the second part of my speech, certain names, but these are in the press and I will not reveal anything secret. If I understand one of the notes that have been sent to us, there are two options – I don't know if it's for management or the minister – to get out of the situation. One is to get out right away. There, it is suggested that this decision could have economic and financial impacts to be understood. The other option is to leave 18 months to allow the SBI to disengage in a discussion with the Belgian operator Rent a Port. I think we need to send a clear signal. For me, disengagement must take place immediately. One cannot, in one way or another, let a doubt arise as to how the State manages its participations! We will be told that finally, the question of the Virgin Islands is no longer relevant, since there has been a transfer to Hong Kong. However, in general, the problem remains and the general attitude of the Belgian State in its relations with non-cooperative territories and tax havens must be quickly clarified. The second part is what seems to me to be a conflict of interest. It seems to me that the government is not paying sufficient attention to the relationship between certain spheres of government and others from the economic world. In particular, I am thinking of the presence of Mr. Fontinoy – whose name has been mentioned – on the SBI board of directors, knowing that the firm in which he works is headed by a person who is a member of the board of directors of a holding company, one of whose subsidiaries is mentioned in the file. That's not right! The line of defence is obviously known: there is no conflict of interest which materializes and, moreover, it is not the head of the firm concerned, which itself has direct links with the holding company, which is found in this file. However, Mr Fontinoy is under that person's political authority. This means that all the conditions that create a form of doubt about the potential existence of a conflict of interest are met. So the situation is not healthy. Mr. Fontinoy does not have to sit on a board of directors where the interests of a subsidiary of a group are decided on the board of directors of which there is a chief of staff, from the same ministerial cabinet. That's not right! I really believe that you need to have a discussion in the Council of Ministers on clarifying the relations that some members of the government or their teams have with this important holding company that is found in a range of sectors of economic activity. Indeed, as the file mentions, the company Ackermans & van Haaren is particularly present, through a whole series of companies, in our economic fabric. The risks of conflicts of interest are therefore major! I don't have time to do this, but we could take over a number of cases where Ackermans & van Haaren has a direct interest. Take the corporate tax reform and the new capital gains tax system. It's going to turn into kern. We tried to explain that the person was deporting every time there was a decision to make. Formally, I'd like to. But informally? I will not be told that the Chief of Staff of a Deputy Prime Minister has no control over matters as important as corporate tax reform! So that's not right! I am not in a moral position, but in a political position of good governance of state affairs. If corporate tax reform pursues a goal of general interest, it cannot be dependent on such spaces in which conflicts of interest may arise. The FEB can do the crane foot in front of ministerial offices; it's a dedicated lobby! All right! Anyway, you won't be able to stop him. But at this point, it's not going well at all. I consider that this is a structural problem for the government. Mr President, Minister, you will certainly have grasped the issues that appear in my remarks.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic768x.u10	Mr President, I will be brief. In the area of offshore and tax evasion, the minister is used to taking a slightly forward-looking position by saying that Europe must agree on the list of tax havens that would make it easier afterwards. But this is not enough, because we are faced with a company investing in the British Virgin Islands, which were indeed part of the Belgian list of tax havens. There are traces of Belgian taxpayers' money in tax havens, "which is not acceptable", confirmed the Minister in plenary. The three questions I want to ask are in a few words. First, can you tell us the retroacts of the situation? How did we get there? What made us find ourselves in this situation? In a personal capacity and without wanting to launch a witch hunt, it is nevertheless important to know exactly what happened. What information have you collected since you requested the investigation? We will listen to you with great attention. Secondly, how do you intend to put an end to this situation in the present case? Have you ever made a decision on this matter? For the future and more generally, how can you ensure that this simply does not happen again? Thirdly, can you introduce basic precautionary measures so that we can no longer find ourselves in an objectively deplorable situation for all, including for the Belgian State?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic768x.u11	First of all, can you tell us how this construction ever came about? To what extent did the BMI actively give instructions regarding the layout of this construction and that of Hong Kong? Secondly, how is it that these structures have not been mentioned in the annual accounts? Thirdly, how can this be prevented? Why haven't these constructions ever been noticed? What is the role of the board of directors and the representative of the FPS Finance at the BMI? Fourthly, can you clarify what measures you will take to monitor the BMI and, if necessary, organise it so that such cases can no longer occur in the future?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic768x.u12	Mr President, Minister, everyone agrees that such cases and cases of tax fraud and tax evasion create a breach of trust between the citizen and the government. This puts a mortgage on the public support for collecting taxes, especially because of citizens and companies who pay us their taxes properly. Moreover, if this is done through an active role of public actors, it is a breach of trust to the second and even to the tenth power. It is therefore normal that there has been a great deal of turmoil on this issue and that Parliament should stick to it. Minister, you will perhaps give an initial explanation, thank you for that. However, I have a very difficult time with the fact that we are being forced into an eye-only procedure with regard to the prepared analysis. According to certain groups, this is enough to start a new committee, but that was blocked by the majority parties. It was discussed in the Finance Committee and now it appears that we need to look at them somewhere in the committee secretariat. I haven't even had a chance to do that yet. I find the eye-only principle in such a dossier unacceptable and difficult to understand. So my first question is to reverse that. Secondly, I would ask you to ensure that we have a full view of all activities. I would like to join my colleagues in this. It is time for an overall analysis, to assess whether such situations are still occurring and to prevent them from occurring in the future. My third and final question is linked to that for a bit. A possible legal ban has already been discussed here, following the programme law. Well, that seems to me to be just a matter of common sense. So here's what I'm asking. First of all, please throw away the eye-only principle, because that is a very bad way to deal with the breach of trust. Secondly, I ask for a full analysis. Thirdly, from a legal point of view, it must be crystal clear that this is absolutely unacceptable.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic768x.u13	Mr Minister, the questions put by my colleagues are certainly unanimous. I would like to add one: it is important to clearly define the role, in terms of responsibility, of a public administrator vis-à-vis the various supervisory ministers who have served in recent years. We're waiting for your answers, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic768x.u14	The file is here and will also be available for those who wish to consult it in the next few days.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic768x.u15	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have, of course, brought together the many questions that overlap. I would like to say the following about the progress of the interventions. How is the control of the Federal Authority on the Belgian Investment Company organised? This question has been asked on several occasions. I refer you to the composition of the Executive Board and the SBI organizational chart, which you can find on the SBI website and in its annual accounts. The annual accounts of the SBI, starting from the 2012 financial year, are also subject to audit by the Court of Auditors. When did the SBI decide to participate in Infra Asia Development Limited, registered in the British Virgin Islands? Based on the decision of 10 December 1998 and 28 January 1999, followed by the signing of a participation agreement on 5 March 1999. What was the economic justification for this presence in the Virgin Islands? First of all, as regards the existence of the legal structure in those British Virgin Islands, it must be clear that its creation in 1996 was not carried out by the BMI, nor by the BMI, but by the majority shareholder and founder of the project, the American insurer AIG. In 1997, the Antwerp company IPEM took a 50 percent stake in Infra Asia Development Limited Haiphong on the side of the network called AIG and its Thai subsidiary AID. On 2 April 1997, the Vietnamese government granted the investment licence to Dinh Vu Development Joint Venture Company, a company under Vietnamese law whose capital is 70% owned by Infra Asia Development Limited and 30% owned by a Vietnamese State. All this with the aim of developing the industrial zone of Dinh Vu in the harbor of Haiphong, located in northern Vietnam. The investment of the BMI in 1999 in Infra Asia Development Limited, in addition to IPEM, AIG and Thai sister company AID, was aimed at co-financing the development of this zone and as such supporting a Belgian company in its development abroad, which is the mission of the BMI. Following the sale by AIG of its stake in 2009, IPEM Rent-A-Port transferred its seat and management in the British Virgin Islands to Hong Kong. Subsequently, a holding company in Hong Kong was established in 2013. In both decisions, the BMI was not actively involved, but underwent, as it is called. The establishment of an umbrella holding company in Hong Kong was initiated by the Belgian partner IPEM Rent-A-Port and was based on the following elements. Firstly, to facilitate investment in other industrial zone projects in Vietnam. Secondly, Hong Kong is an excellent location for a possible IPO in the future. Thirdly, Hong Kong can boast a stable financial and legal framework applying Anglo-Saxon law and the presence of law firms, banks and consultants within or with an international network. Fourthly, Hong Kong has a double tax treaty, both with Belgium and Vietnam. You then ask me what, over the years, has been the ability to control the reality of economic activities and the compliance of this company with its tax obligations. Since its economic activities were concentrated in Vietnam, the follow-up was oriented towards the local developments of Dinh Vu Industrial Zone Joint Stock Company, among others through contacts with the Belgian partner and through on-site missions. The SBI was not represented on the board of such companies, given its limited participation. Was the decision to invest in a tax haven made by the administrators of the time informed? In the analytical notes submitted to them, it was mentioned that the investment in the Vietnamese Dinh Vu project was carried out through Infra Asia Development Ltd. Why was there no concrete reporting in the annual reports? The error occurred in 2004 and was copied annually until the partial exit in 2012. This is a human error on the basis of the investment sheet drawn up in 1999 and modified in 2004. However, it is important to note that this is neither a material nor an intentional error. In addition, strictly speaking, the BMI should not even have made this notification in the annex and therefore certainly did not wish to hide anything by including it in the annex to the annual accounts. The investment took place only for two thirds of its own resources, bringing the participation below the notification threshold of 10%, while the remaining third was on the State's account but was not included in the balance sheet of the BMI but only in the order account. However, from a conservative approach this was done, since the BMI manages these funds and they also belong to the State, unfortunately with the wrong address. You ask me if the question of the presence in a tax haven of the Société belge d'investissement (SBI) has been explicitly addressed in its decision-making bodies. And why has the decision to leave the Virgin Islands never been taken by these organs? In view of the passage of time, the initial decisions taken in the 1990s cannot be judged. This is not reflected in the minutes and since then the monitoring and reporting of decision-making bodies has focused on the economic operational development of the case and the partial exits. The issue of the SBI's presence in a tax haven was not explicitly addressed, nor, therefore, the decision to possibly leave it. On the occasion of the sale by AIG of its interest in Infra Asia Development Limited in 2009, IPEM Rent-A-Port nevertheless moved the headquarters and residence of the British Virgin Islands company to Hong Kong and subsequently a holding company was established in Hong Kong in 2013. Since then, the SBI has no longer been a direct shareholder of the British Virgin Islands company. Society in the British Virgin Islands still exists, but it has no operational impact. Its continued existence stems from the fact that it owns 65.10 per cent of Dinh Vu's concession in Vietnam and that the modification of the main shareholder of this concession in Vietnam could be complex and even jeopardize legal certainty. Are there reports from the FPIM, directly or indirectly, to the ministers on this construction? The FPIM confirms to me that there has been no such reporting. Did that construction have any fiscal consequences? According to the CEO of the BMI, there was no tax advantage based on the information that was now available. The income generated from these investments has been subject to their normal tax system without any benefits. For example, the FDI deduction was not applied to the dividends received, as the BMI retained less than 10% at the time they were paid out. I would also like to point out that the BMI confirmed to me that except for one project, the BMI did not make any other investments in countries which were on the OECD list of non-compliant countries at the time of the investment or on the list of countries referred to in Articles 73 or 179 of the RB/WIB 1992. Is it true, in my view, that the Antwerp company Rent-A-Port mainly managed the economic exploitation of that business area and thus gave instructions for the organisation in Vietnam? Indeed, the BMI was not on the board of directors, given its limited shareholder rate. The management was carried out by her industrial partner Rent-A-Port, which is the case for all her projects. The BMI is never involved in the day-to-day management of those investments. How was the control structure set up and who were successive members of the Management Board and the Management Committee? The BMI was established as a private limited liability company. There is therefore no management agreement with the government. Article 12 of the statutes of the BMI states that "the company is governed by a board whose composition as quoted above can be found on the website." Article 20 of the Statute further states that "The audit of the financial situation, the annual accounts and the regularity, from the point of view of the legal provisions and the statutes, of the transactions in the annual accounts shall be entrusted to one or more supervisory directors appointed by the General Assembly for a renewable term of three years and elected among the members of the Institute of the Business Supervisors." In addition to this review by KPMG, the annual accounts of the BMI will also be subject to the audit of the Court of Auditors from the 2012 financial year onwards. Why was there later working with an intermediate holding company in Hong Kong? Not really an intermediate holding company was set up, but an overarching holding company. The establishment of this global holding company in Hong Kong was initiated by the Belgian partner IPEM Rent-A-Port and was based on four elements, which I mentioned earlier. How was this construction reported by the shareholders? The reporting took place at the level of the Management Board, where the majority of shareholders are represented, with nevertheless the observation that the follow-up of the file, at the level of the Management Board, focused on the operational situation of the file rather than on the existing investment structure. This structure was briefly mentioned in the documents, but never gave rise to an explicit discussion within that board. For everyone involved in this project, this was a project in Vietnam. In the end, this is also true, as this country is the final benefit of the BMI's investment. Following the publication of the information, as you all know, I immediately requested an analysis by the FPIM and the BMI to see what measures could and should be taken. An examination of the shares held by the FPIM was initiated on the basis of the three following identification criteria. Firstly, does the State appear on the list of countries without or with a low tax, within the meaning of Article 307 of the Income Tax Code 1992? Secondly, is the State considered by the Global Forum on transparency and exchange of information on tax matters to be a State that did not actually or substantially implement the standard for the exchange of tax information? Thirdly, does the State appear on the list of countries whose common rules on income tax are considered to be significantly more favourable than in Belgium? I refer here to the Royal Decree of 1 March 2016. The study thus goes beyond the criteria which have been held back by the OECD to determine a tax paradise. As you know, this is mainly about the principle of non-cooperating countries. I can confirm the following at this stage. First, among the companies in which the FPIM has a direct investment, there are none that would be included in one of the States which would meet one or more of the criteria listed just now. Secondly, among the companies under which the FPIM is a shareholder, which are a direct investment, there are none who would be included in one of the States that would meet one or more of the three criteria listed above. For what remains, the results will be communicated once the statements of all the companies in which the FPIM has indirect investments have been collected, but this will take some time. On 16 November, the SBI Executive Board decided that an external audit of the existing SBI portfolio would be carried out as soon as possible. What measures will be taken? Firstly, it should be noted that the BMI will take measures to put an end quickly and definitively to its presence in the vehicle in the British Virgin Islands, through which its initial investment was made in Vietnam. This will be done either by shutting down the vehicle or by exiting the BMI from the entire project. These are the two options: shutting down the vehicle as such, or the exit by the BMI from the total project ahead. In addition, the FPIM already has several resources to prevent funds from being invested in tax havens, including by inserting appropriate provisions into the contractual documents setting out its investments, but also through the concrete commitments to respect a certain ethics contained in the various charters and regulations governing its investments. The provisions of the management agreement to be concluded between the FPIM and the Belgian authorities will soon reaffirm and strengthen those principles. Moreover, it is also currently being examined how the whole arsenal of funds can be expanded, including through even more explicit references in charters and internal regulations in the commitment to avoid tax avoidance, and in the contractual investment documents, through the organisation of more systematic audits throughout the lifetime of the investment or through the implementation of more flexible mechanisms, in order to put an end to investments that do not meet the initial commitments and, if necessary, the contractual sanctioning of partners that have contributed to them. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, and as a conclusion, I would like to add five points. Firstly, the BMI was not involved in the creation of the company in the British Virgin Islands. The BMI only got in later. Secondly, research into other tax structures at the FPIM has started. There are certainly no other constructions at the BMI. Thirdly, the failure to mention in the annual accounts was a regrettable human error. Fourthly, according to the BMI, no advantage was derived from the tax structure. Fifthly, the management agreement with the FPIM, which is now being drawn up and drawn up, aims to include a dashboard with social KPIs. They will now be highlighted even more. It is better to include this in the management agreement than in the law. This allows for a much more flexible follow-up.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic768x.u16	Thank you for your detailed answer. Replieks are possible, but they are limited to two minutes. I believe we have 99 other questions, but everyone gets a chance to replicate.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic768x.u17	Mr President, I have heard the Minister's explanation. I was particularly concerned about whether we should settle this in the management agreement or whether we could send a signal from the Chamber. Minister, you say that we can work in a broader, broader and more flexible way in the management agreement. However, that does not prevent the legislator from determining such a principle, and in my view should do so. You belong to the executive and you do what we consider important as representatives of the people. I hear you're referring to three criteria in the investigation. When I hear Mr Van de Velde, our amendment was perhaps too limited at the time. Perhaps we should look in that direction, that on the basis of the criteria used in this investigation as legislator, we should pass this on to the executive authority and then make that management agreement more effective. After all, you say that you want to go even further than what is already happening today.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic768x.u18	Mr President, as I understand it, the structure in the Virgin Islands still exists. The reason given is that it owns about 65% of the concession. This means that potentially – I don't say 'actually', I don't know, I don't have the annual accounts of this structure in the Virgin Islands – she receives a fee for the concession, since she owns it. I therefore imagine that there may still be a flow of taxable material going to the Virgin Islands. I heard what you were saying about the SBI. The question therefore arises whether, in one way or another, a number of taxable persons, for example Belgian company tax, still find themselves in one way or another in this structure present in the Virgin Islands. The minimum, it seems to me – and it is not for the legislative power to ask for it directly – is to question you in your capacity as Minister of Finance and head of the tax administration, whether or not you intend to conduct an inquiry by the Special Inspectorate of Taxes. We must be able to make this clear. From the moment we are told that this structure still exists and that it owns the concession, this means that a fiscal reason may justify maintaining this intangible asset in the Virgin Islands and not elsewhere. Second question. Indeed, it is an old case; it may be difficult to identify the motivations of those who, at some point, have agreed to engage in a pattern of organization through the Virgin Islands. Decisions have been taken to transfer to Hong Kong. I ask each member of the commission to do a little exercise: go to Google and type 'Hong Kong - tax montages'. You will understand quite quickly that Hong Kong is not simply a financial platform, a place where consulting companies and law firms are found; it is also found elsewhere: in Brussels, London, Frankfurt, Paris. We can launch an OPI from one of the cities I just mentioned. Hong Kong also offers very advantageous solutions for holding companies. And I hear that the SBI now has a stake in a holding company in Hong Kong. Why this choice of Hong Kong? I repeat, are there any tax grounds? For the rest, it is only identified at this stage, the SBI has not deducted an deductible dividend since it is below 10 per cent. However, I would like to draw attention to the issue of capital gains, dividends and the tax system. All this calls for deepening, both for the Virgin Islands sequence and for the Hong Kong sequence. I take note that some kind of screening, audit will take place "as soon as possible" to determine whether in any way, directly or indirectly, the SBI has interests in entities in tax havens, non-cooperative territories. I suggest that we have as wide an approach as possible whenever there is sensitivity to this problem, and that we do not stick to formal lists. I think, Mr. Minister, that we must do this right now, not "as soon as possible". Finally, on the exit of this situation and the interests related to the Virgin Islands and Hong Kong, on this Vietnamese project, I think that we must go as quickly as possible. In the file you gave us, management writes that because of the revelations in the press, the SBI image is blurred. That's the point. Clear decisions must be made to prevent the image from deteriorating as well. You didn't mention it, I can understand it, but I don't accept it, the problem of conflict of interest. This file allows us to address it. There is a corporate tax reform. You will receive the deductible dividend scheme, you will receive the capital gains exemption and we have a prominent member of a firm participating in the kern, which has direct interests in one of the largest holding companies in Belgium, affected in particular by these two measures. I am not even talking about the ISoc rate; it is a holding company that weighs dust in corporate tax because precisely it is a holding company. On the other hand, it may be partially affected by the compensatory measures. It's not okay! In any other country, this situation would be resolved. Here, it goes on without asking too many questions. There's something wrong!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic768x.u19	Mr President, I should like to speak on behalf of Van Hees, then Mrs Wouters and then Mr. Van Biesen and Mr. Van de Velde.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic768x.u20	Mr Minister, first of all with regard to the human error of transcription explaining that this company has not been mentioned in the accounts as being in the British Virgin Islands, but in Vietnam, it is a bit of a joke of the year! I know that you're not necessarily a joker and that it wasn't you who invented this joke since we found it in the SBI report, but who would make it look like we made a transcription error? And precisely, this error had the effect of not mentioning a tax haven in the accounts of a public company. It's a little too big to believe. We understand that there are two companies, one in Hong Kong and the other in the British Virgin Islands. Or a company that has two seats; anyway, we've doubled the problem. We used to have a company in a tax haven; now we have a company in two tax havens: British Virgin Islands and Hong Kong. I don't think it worked out anything, on the contrary. I recall that Hong Kong and the Virgin Islands are on Appleby's list, which manufactures tax packages and is the database of the Paradise Papers. I think it is clear that if you are in Hong Kong, it is for fiscal and other reasons: opacity, etc. The number one of the IRS who was the SBI administrator sees none of this. The tax aspects do not seem to worry him. I think there's a big problem. Either a problem of competence or a problem of honesty, but it seems obvious to me that this point must be raised with the chairman of the steering committee. You tell us that the SBI has not applied RTD on the dividends received from this offshore company because it has less than 10% of the capital. However, it would be interesting to know whether the other private partner deducted RTD (revenues definitively taxed) from the dividends received. I asked you how much of those dividends were, but you didn't answer me. I asked you what the tax rate was, you didn't answer me. You make sure that there is no tax reason, but you don't give us any figures on the company's tax and accounts. Do you have to believe on your word? No, tax aspects can only be judged if the elements of the file are available. I regret, like colleagues, that the report is for your eyes only. I think there is nothing in this report anyway. What interests us is to have all the financial and other data on the offshore company installed in the British Virgin Islands. That is the real question. For a public or partially public society, parliamentarians and public opinion have the right to know everything about this society. The fact that occult areas are maintained in this case only increases suspicions about the use of tax havens and the conflicts of interest that exist, as Mr Laaouej said. You have not answered at all about the many conflicts of interest that exist. So for you, the situation is normal. It's like the Speaker of the House, of your party, who said in an interview: "I am for conflicts of interest". Do you share this philosophy? I think there is a problem in your attitude and that of the government in general.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic768x.u21	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. You said the BMI was not involved in the establishment. But that she later participated, doesn't fire her from looking closely into what kind of vehicle she stepped into. The fact that she wasn't there at the beginning doesn't immediately give me a reason not to know. According to you, Rent-A-Port, in particular, took the decision to install itself in the Virgin Islands as well as the decision to establish an umbrella body in Hong Kong, and the BMI has been subjected to these decisions. This raises the question of whether the BMI was aware, on the basis of which it could have perfectly decided to leave the vehicle, which you now see as one of the possibilities. Or was she unaware of it at all? You say that there are a number of investigations going on, both at the FPIM and at the BMI, but if the BMI is not part of the board because the participation is too small, I cannot get the impression that even more such situations will come to light after the audit. We'll see about that. I hope that the audit will be carried out as soon as possible and that the result will be shared with the Chamber. Then you think it's not so bad, because the BMI wouldn't have benefited from it. That could be. But it is quite clear that the other partners in the story probably took advantage of it. They have made the decisions to settle in tax havens, the reason why further investigations into their partners can be carried out. I hear from a number of colleagues here that there would be conflicts of interest in the highest regions. I have not yet had the opportunity to look into the file for your eyes only, but if there are conflicts of interest in the highest regions, I can only conclude that the government has still not learned anything and that there is no public administration. Even if it turns out that this wouldn't be so bad, I suggest that the file gets public and doesn't stay for your eyes only. Hopefully the results of the audit will be communicated, as will the management agreement with the BMI, so that they can be discussed in committee, because apparently this will not be amended by law in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic768x.u22	Minister, I welcome your speedy action and thank you for having been able to present a fairly complete dossier on the problem so quickly. Let it be clear: it is unacceptable that the government should be present in a tax paradise, let alone the British Virgin Islands, directly or even indirectly through the purchase of a society. There is only one clear suggestion for the institution: get out as soon as possible. Point on the line. Mr Minister, there is a certain impression here, but this has not happened at all. Indeed, it is at Vietnam's request that the seat be located in a more tax-friendly environment, namely Hong Kong. It is not the participants, like our institution, who took care of the move from the British Virgin Islands to Hong Kong; it was at the request of the investment country. This does not change the basic principle, however, that once one knows that a participation has been contaminated by the presence in a tax haven, which must be rejected immediately, whatever the consequences. Point on the line. There's no detour. There is no other means. There's no other way out. Secondly, I urge the chairman of the committee to examine this in detail in January, following the discussion of the budgetary analysis, in order to obtain a precise view of the tasks of the Federal Participation Company and the Belgian International Investment Company. In any case, the question arises as to whether the Belgian authorities should participate in the listed companies. I often get the impression that the Belgian government is doing this in order to give a favour to certain companies. We must be very objective in this and check whether our investments benefit all citizens of this country or only a number of companies. I therefore call for a fundamental discussion on the BMI and the Federal Participation Society to see what we will do about it in the future. I think there's a lot of options. In doing so, we should only maintain investments with genuine strategic and economic interests, of which our country is getting better. After all, I suspect that today we are more involved in helping certain companies in certain circumstances.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic768x.u23	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. We have learned a lot today. Firstly, we have learned about the valve approach. In the beginning the pot cooks over and one sees a lot of steam. When we begin to analyse the problem, we see that this steam is rapidly decreasing and that a number of interventions can be made to achieve good objectives and results. We have also learned, I hope, that colleagues will be aware of this, that such matters are best examined before they begin to be called upon. What was first described as scandalous has now been reduced to the real proportions. There's a heavenly difference. To those who are full of the public's confidence, I recommend that the confidence of citizens should not be betrayed by sending such insinuations into the world like a chicken without a head. I am therefore very pleased with your concrete approach. The same approach was followed in Antwerp, when Rent-A-Port's question came to the Antwerp Waterworks to make a further investment. This became an investment of 20 million euros, in which Antwerp Waterworks had nothing to do with such investments abroad. That has simply been stopped, and rightly so. I would like to join Mr Van Biesen in saying that we need a broader discussion on investment. When we look at the situation in the Netherlands, today the Dutch government participates very actively with water extraction companies and dredging companies. We can suck a little bit more on that. If we see what we do not win in the World Bank games as opposed to the Netherlands, then we are small beer. Unfortunately, that is a great deal about such areas. It will therefore be important to define in a rational way what one does or does not do. Does it allow activities in such areas or not? For us, the area itself is not important when it comes to an underlying, interesting economic activity. If it is only a question of setting up fiscal structures there, it is obviously not allowed. We need to be able to distinguish between these points of discussion. As a government, we must say no in all possible respects to fiscal constructions. We still have to discuss what to do with participations and support for an economic dossier, as this is one, because that is where it is still raging. We can offer much better support to a number of sectors.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic768x.u24	Mr President, I have a mixed feeling. I find the minister's answer correct. Minister, you have done a fairly comprehensive overview of the situation. In relation to what you said, I have the hope that we will be able to have accurate information on the option that will eventually be adopted soon enough. Will it be the removal of the vehicle or will it be an exit from the project? On the other hand, I am more cautious when I read the report that has been made available to us. In particular, when I see the most recent dossier prepared for the SBI Governing Council, I do not have the impression that they have appreciated the emotion that the disclosure of the case may have generated. I invite colleagues to read the document. There is some concern about "reputational damage" to the SBI. Finally, we are more indignant about the echoes in the press than about the initial situation itself. We give the impression that we want to get out of the case back and back. In particular, there is a long development on the financial impact, the economic impact of a possible exit. This gives the impression that we are actually doing it under duress, without having taken the measure of scandal. It's not reassuring for the rest. As we discuss the management contract, we really need to clarify these elements. To the limit, it can be considered that the case is circumcised, but it cannot be felt that the company's officials have taken full measure of the risk they pose to the credibility of the Belgian State.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic768x.u25	I certainly hear some positive things in the Minister's reply. By the way, it's about a file he inherited. In 2004, he may still have written free galleries on budgetary balances. This seems like an eternity ago. I also hear about a number of actions, but it seems to me that all of this can be a little sharper and more openly. I've had a chance to look into this, but I'm still having objections to that eye-only procedure. When I look at the documents on which it relates, I do not think that this is justified. In fact, I believe that we need to hear a number of key players on this issue, especially because they still have an important responsibility in public sectors today. There are at least reasons to suspect that they have been negligent in their assignment as a representative of the Belgian State. I believe, Mr President, that a hearing on this dossier with Mr D'Hondt and Mr Fonntinoy is insisting. This dossier is certainly not closed for us. In the file that I have been able to look into, it seems to be argued above all why it is so annoying that it has been leaked into the media, rather than drawing up an action plan to withdraw from this construction as soon as possible. In fact, a number of colleagues have rightly advocated the latter. That letter does not reassure me at all. The message must be to withdraw as quickly as possible, as Mr Van Biesen has also advocated. A third point on which I would like to encourage you to be firmer, sharper and clearer, Minister, concerns the total exclusion of such constructions through management agreements or legislation. I certainly do not want to break down your answer completely, but I find the method of eyes only very difficult to accept. I also believe that we need to hear a number of key players. Moreover, policy actions may be faster and more firm than we have seen up to now.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic768x.u26	Mr President, I join colleagues in thanking the minister for his answers. I invite the minister to act as quickly as possible to leave this kind of structure, to ensure that there is no other structure and to establish the responsibilities of each other. I may have been distracted, but I have not heard the answer to the question that I asked, which is perhaps a big problem in this kind of case: the boundary between the attitude, responsibility, and the action of a public administrator representing the federal government when it is confronted with the defence of its country's image is no longer properly established. There is a nuance that perhaps needs to be redefined, to distinguish so that the one who has the mission of managing a society at best does not do anything without thinking about the tutelage it represents.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic768x.u27	We shall conclude the discussion. The questions on the hearings will be dealt with in January.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic768x.u28	Minister, according to a recent survey, Belgium is Europe's vice-champion for food waste. If we bring the figures back to the population of the country, each Belgian thus wastes in a year 345 kilos of food. This figure stands out and is well above the European average of 176 kilos. Of course, consumers are not responsible for this waste. All the links in the chain, from the producer to the distributor, bear a share of responsibility. Many efforts have already been made, particularly at European level, but the problem remains important. So my questions are simple. Have you read these figures? How do you position yourself in relation to these? How do you explain that they are so high compared to the average? What tools do you have to improve the situation? I would point out that I had tabled the question with the Minister for Employment, the Economy and the Consumers, but that it was finally redirected to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic768x.u29	Mr Flahaux, the fight against food waste is obviously an important issue. In the area of VAT, donations of food surpluses have been the subject of specific measures which are also consistent with the assistance of the needy. These measures take account of the constraints of European and Belgian legislation, in particular those relating to the question of the levying of property by a taxable person. Where a taxable person distributes food surpluses free of charge, that transaction is in principle equivalent to a delivery made for consideration and is therefore subject to VAT, such goods or the components thereof which have previously been entitled to a full or partial deduction of taxes. Two decisions on VAT were taken in 2013 and 2015, allowing the application of VAT, on strict conditions, to some of these levies in the context of the free distribution of food surpluses. Food products intended for human consumption, subject to the tax at the reduced rate of 6 or 12 %, shall be exclusively taken into account in accordance with Royal Decree No 20. These may include, but are not limited to, surplus stocks of products with close consumption deadlines, products that are too mature or discoloured, or products whose packaging is severely damaged. The goods that these taxable persons could still introduce into the usual trade circuit are therefore not covered. The food products concerned cannot have been processed. In close collaboration with the sector, in particular the field associations and distribution actors, my administration is still working on an improvement that would result in the recasting of these two decisions into a single circular. Together, we aim to include social grocery stores and restaurants within the scope of this measure. In the fight against food waste, it is important to be attentive to all the links in the chain. Everyone must contribute to it. Clearly, there are still room for improvement. According to the European study to which you refer, among other things about the different volume figures, European households currently contribute 53% of this waste. With a view to an overall improvement, the European Parliament's report focuses on consumer education, for a change in its purchasing and use behaviour. Even if the lever of education is not within my competence, I continue to work on this struggle in my own field of action.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic768x.u30	Minister, thank you for your answer. I realize that you are really aware of the problem and that you are trying to find the most appropriate solutions. Indeed, with a waste rate twice as high in Belgium as in the rest of Europe and since, unfortunately, extreme poverty is becoming more and more important - it is enough to see parcel distributions in CPAS - the situation needs to be improved.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic768x.u31	Mrs Smaers asked for her apologies to sit on the Economy Committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic768x.u32	Mr President, let me point out that I am turning my question No 21840 into a written question. Minister, according to a new study by the European Commission, the countries of the Union recorded VAT revenue losses totalling EUR 152 billion in 2015. The VAT gap which corresponds to the overall difference between the expected VAT revenue and the amount actually collected demonstrates once again the need for a thorough reform of VAT, so that Member States can make full use of VAT revenue for their budgets. Belgium is one of the countries whose differences are increasing, but individual performance in collecting VAT varies considerably between Member States. The most marked VAT differences were found in Romania (37.2%), Slovakia (29.4%) and Greece (28.3%). The lowest differences were in Spain (3.5 per cent) and Croatia (3.9 per cent). In absolute terms, the largest VAT gap was observed in Italy and amounted to EUR 35 billion. The VAT gap has decreased in most Member States, with the biggest improvements observed in Malta, Romania and Spain. Seven Member States saw a slight increase, namely Belgium, unfortunately Denmark, Ireland, Greece, Luxembourg, Finland and the United Kingdom. Mr Minister, do you think it is possible for VAT to be effectively reformed within the Union with such wide disparities in the collection of this tax between its member countries? What has been the development for our country over the last five years of the differences between VAT revenue and actual collection? What are the most effective measures put in place in recent years to reduce this gap? What are your forecasts for the coming years?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic768x.u33	Mr Flahaux, the answer to your and Mrs Smaers' questions, which are more or less identical, has been written in French and Dutch. Do you mind if I mix both in the answer?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic768x.u34	No!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic768x.u35	Thank you. First of all, reference is made to the annual European study on the so-called VAT Gap or VAT gap, to which the FPS Finance has also contributed. This is defined as the difference between the total theoretically due amount of VAT, on the one hand, and the actual revenue on VAT, on the other. This gap is calculated in the present study by means of a top-down approach. This means that the macroeconomic estimates of consumption expenditure and investment in national accounts are linked to the applicable VAT rates. This link is not per individual VAT transaction but per product category. Supply and use tables shall be used to calculate a weighted average VAT rate for each product category, taking into account an estimate of the relative shares of taxable persons, non-taxable and mixed-taxable consumers in the whole of consumption. For each product category, total expenditure shall then be multiplied by the applicable weighted average VAT rate. On the basis of this information, we arrive at the VAT gap or VAT Gap. The disadvantage of this approach is that the VAT gap cannot be further broken down into, for example, industries or specific tax systems. Although the VAT gap is calculated by product group, the total VAT actually received cannot be divided in the same way. In view of the rough nature of macroeconomic forecasts, it is therefore necessary to focus not so much on the change year after year but rather on the long-term trend. It is declining for Belgium: from 12,2 % in 2010 to 10,8 % in 2015. Moreover, the percentage is below the European average, which was 12.8 % for 2015. Taking into account the way the calculations for the VAT gap are made, it is impossible to identify one or more specific causes for the slight increase that occurred in that VAT gap between 2015 and 2016. According to the study, the VAT gap may include fraud, tax avoidance, bankruptcies, non-payment and ordinary miscalculations. Therefore, my services are constantly paying attention to all phenomena that may have a negative impact on VAT revenues, in order to be able to take appropriate operational and regulatory measures if necessary. My administration expects that the VAT gap as estimated in the above-mentioned study will continue to fluctuate around 10% in the coming years. Note that, over the course of the editions of this annual study, the CASE office itself revises the estimates originally published. In any event, the study shows that there are considerable disparities in VAT between Member States. This is the starting point for optimising the effectiveness of control measures and for reflecting on structural changes that would make the VAT system less vulnerable to fraud. The European Commission is endeavouring to take this into account in its reform proposals. I conclude with the measures. At the regulatory and operational level, the fight against fraud and the reduction of the VAT gap remain priorities of national and European tax policy. At the national level, my administration is continuing its efforts to optimize and modernize the operational tools available to control services. For example, the continued deployment of the Eurofisc network, the further development and development of data mining techniques, as well as the entry into service of high-performance risk analysis instruments such as the Transaction Network Analysis!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic768x.u36	Minister, I thank you for your answer, which shows that beyond traditional tax evasion, this gap is still extremely important. I am also pleased that you have announced efforts to find solutions that can reduce these huge gaps. When comparing the Spanish (3.5 per cent) and Romanian (37 per cent) rates, we can see different ways of operating both within the populations concerned and their respective tax administrations.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic768x.u37	Debates of the European Parliament 21011 by Mr Bogaert is for Minister Wilmès and will therefore not be answered.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic768x.u38	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, the validity of the tax shelter mechanism, which has been in place in our country for almost 15 years, must no longer be demonstrated; this mechanism has been copied in other countries. On December 22, 2016, the House passed the law extending it to the performing arts. This enlargement was warmly welcomed by all stakeholders. However, a few months after the entry into force of this law, a dysfunction appears. This concerns in particular the eligibility of certain expenses, and more specifically the expenses incurred in the first month after the representation of the first of the stage work. Indeed, some operators of the tax shelter, in doubt, pre-emptively refuse to incorporate the expenses during this one-month period because they believe that this insecurity cast doubt on the relationship of trust with investors. There are even rumours that no expenditure could be taken into account. The consequence of this excessive prudence results in lower funding for certain productions, which is contrary to the objective of this tax system and endangers the sustainability of certain projects. Minister, in order to reassure the sector, could you confirm to me that expenses incurred within one month of the First are eligible? Could you clarify the criteria for this eligibility? Is it expected that the tax administration will specify this possibility in a circular, for example?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic768x.u39	Mr Scourneau, the tax shelter scheme "Arts de la scène" does indeed provide that Belgian production and operating expenses must be incurred within a period ending no later than one month after the first of the stage work. Only production and operating expenses that can be considered as such when incurred before the First may retain this qualification for the period ending no later than one month after the First. Accordingly, it may, inter alia, be regarded as production and operating expenses, the wages of the actors and technical staff and the insurance costs which relate to the period ending one month after the First. My administration is preparing a FAQ that will provide all the necessary clarifications.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic768x.u40	Minister, thank you. You have given some specific indications such as wages and insurances, for example. I hope that you will be able, through the Frequently Asked Questions, to bring even more undisputed eligibility criteria in relation to an administration which, from time to time, seems to be taunting with regard to the admission of eligible expenditure.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic768x.u41	Minister, sufficient investment is important for a country's economy. If, for example, the municipality of Jabbeke builds a sports and culture centre, it can write it off through the extraordinary budget, as it were, by simply including the annuity in its budget. When another entity or another level of power in this country does so, it is necessary to include the full costs in the budget, which of course makes a significant difference in terms of investment. All kinds of tricks are then conceived or one simply ignores Europe, as Flanders does in connection with the construction of large works. Is there any news from Europe to apply a new and, in my view, normal accounting method? What would that mean for the federal government, entity I? If one starts writing off, then what has happened in the past as well as the net gross ratio is also important. What concrete proposals did you make to the members of the eurogroup in July 2016 regarding the depreciation rules for large infrastructure investments? What proposals have Belgium made since then? What are the reactions of the other Member States? Which euro area countries support the proposals? What is the specific attitude of Germany to this?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic768x.u42	Mr Bogaert, in line with the general principles of public accounting that have been in force for many years and have been collected or aggregated in the European system of accounts, the famous ESA 2010 is the general rule that investments should be recorded as expenditure at the time when the transfer of ownership of the fixed assets concerned takes place to the entity that intends to use them effectively. In the case of an investment spread over several years, expenditure should be entered in the accounts as effectively implemented or carried out. It should also be stressed that this is not a recent rule. The same principle has already been applied in previous ESA versions. Belgium does not question the principles of budgetary responsibility of the Stability and Growth Pact, which are the best guarantee of sustainable and stable public finances within the European Union. Nevertheless, in the context of the discussions on the importance of public investment for economic growth, I have indeed called for better alignment over time of spending and revenue associated with public investment. Already today, the European Commission shows some flexibility with regard to investment with the so-called investment clause, but it is bound by conditions which are still quite to very strict. Contacts showed that there can only be a discussion on the issue of the booking of investments if a large majority of Member States are in favour of it. That did not appear to be the case. Of course, Mr Bogaert, I am not telling you a secret when I say that a country such as Germany, in particular, is very reluctant to even open the debate on this issue. I regret that, but that is the reality in the European debate, and frankly I do not see any immediate change in it. You never know, but when we briefly had that discussion, it was quite clear that the margin of manoeuvre was very limited, not to say actually non-existent.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic768x.u43	Minister, there are two points I would like to make in the debate. It is easier for the larger countries, because every year they have an Oosterweel somewhere, for example for France, which somewhere in a region has to build such a large amount. In the smaller European countries, this happens once every 10 years. In principle, one could not even do it, because there is simply no country that gets it in its budget, which is, of course, a bizarre situation. That is an important counter-argument. I, and you too, do not, of course, argue for any less budgetary orthodoxy or for a back door to be less heavy, in order to put it that way. The point is that, of course, the intention to invest depends greatly on what is happening in the budget. If it's knocked off, there's a problem. Another argument that it is not about softening orthodoxy is that Belgium, given the investments in the past, would find it roughly the same. If we apply this now and then look at the investments made in Belgium over the past ten years, which all deprecates that is, of course, dependent on the time frame and then plans large investments, then that would balance itself. I assume that we mean that historically speaking, apart from Oosterweel, there is a rotation of depreciation and cash-outs for our small and medium-sized investments and that this would be balanced. I assume that this is also balanced in many countries. The bigger the portfolio technology behind it, the bigger the country, the less fluctuations can be in it. I think this might also be an argument for allowing this to happen. Of course, if they say we have Oosterweel, it's hard to get out of it. That's a given anyway. However, we share the conviction that this should be possible sooner or later.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic768x.u44	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Vanvelthoven's 21029 is converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic768x.u45	Mr President, Minister, when a company incurs costs, they are, in principle, deductible, according to Article 49 of the WIB. To this end, there are in principle three conditions: the costs must have been incurred in the taxable period, they must have been incurred in order to obtain or retain taxable income, and they must be linked to the company's activity. This third condition is not literally based on Article 49, but since the judgment of the Court of Cassation of 18 January 2001, there has been agreement that this condition must be fulfilled. The Constitutional Court confirmed that case-law. In 2015, the Court of Cassation returned to this case law in a number of judgments, thus giving a slight farewell to the so-called causality condition. If no legal action is taken, it will have a significant budgetary impact. Accountants will be overwhelmed with the demand to book personal expenses of managers. As a result of the increased flat-rate professional costs, the managers may well be the big winner of this government's tax shift. In any case, in my view, taxation has not become more equitable by the turn of the Court of Cassation, in so far as this recent case law is not answered by a legislative initiative of ours or yours. According to my interpretation, the recent judgments of the Court of Cassation are an invitation to Parliament to amend the legislation and to correct the case. Minister, I have questioned you about this before. I can also refer to the Anti-Fraud Action Plan, or your 2016 policy paper, which literally states that the above-mentioned cassation court "calls for legislative review in order to prevent abuse" and that "the Minister of Finance and the fight against fraud will develop a legislative initiative in this area." Mr Minister, we are almost two years later, so my question is obvious. When can we expect the legislative initiative to amend Article 49, so that the causality condition is incorporated into the law and so that the abuse, which you yourself warned yourself, can be prevented?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic768x.u46	Mr President, Mr Vanvelthoven, in the judgment in question, the Court of Cassation held that the absence of a link between the operation of a company and its social activity or its statutory purpose does not necessarily exclude deduction as a professional cost. On the other hand, it is still required that, in order to be regarded as deductible professional costs on the basis of Article 49 of the WIB, costs must be incurred or borne in order to obtain or retain taxable income. In the meantime, following that judgment of the Court of Cassation, a number of judgments were handed down which did not accept the deduction of certain costs on the basis of Article 49, because it had not been demonstrated that those costs were incurred or borne in order to obtain or retain taxable income. In addition, two judgments in cassation of 14 October 2016 did not accept the costs related to the usufruct of a property that was partially made available to the manager, as it had not been demonstrated that the costs of obtaining or maintaining taxable income were actually incurred against those costs, nor was it therefore demonstrated that the costs had been incurred in order to obtain or retain taxable income. This therefore shows that the judgment in question in cassation in 2015 did not open the door to being able to deduct as a professional cost of personal expenses incurred by managers. It is therefore advisable not to change Article 49, especially in view of its importance. Should it prove that Article 49 is being interpreted in a more generous way in the future, an amendment of the article or of the specific articles in corporate tax may still be envisaged.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic768x.u47	Mr Minister, I note that, on the basis of new case law, you are returning to your position two years ago. I'll take a look at that. There is nothing wrong with making the legislator clear. In this respect, there is still some ambiguity. We will see if we can come to Parliament with a legislative initiative.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic768x.u48	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Peter Vanvelthoven's 21031 will be converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic768x.u49	Minister, following the OECD Common Reporting Standard, our country received financial information on Belgian taxpayers for the first time in September 2017. I would have liked to have heard from you, Minister. How many countries have already received information from our country in this context? Can you also provide that information by partner country? How many Belgian taxpayers are covered by this information? Are those intel charged in MyMinfin? In other words, can each taxable person easily determine what information, received from foreign tax administrations, is available to the FPS Finance? Are that information visible to the tax inspector, like any other information available in MyMinfin? Or is that information subject to banking secrecy and can they be used only within the contours of Article 322 of the WIB? Is a specific control action on foreign income foreseen in 2017 and/or 2018 and following the first automatic exchange of information under the CRS? Our country has also provided information to other countries in the framework of the Common Reporting Standard, which, on the basis of the information provided to the FPS Finance by the Belgian financial institutions. How much information has Belgium provided to our partner countries? How many people are we talking about?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic768x.u50	Mr Vanvelthoven, at the moment we have received information from 34 countries in the framework of the CRS. The priority was, of course, in the timely transmission of the information by 30 September 2017. At present, every effort is being made to process the information received. I don't have any information on the number of information received yet. Data on exchange of information, with reference to specific countries, shall be confidential and shall not be communicated publicly. This is so explicitly provided for in international legislation and agreements in this area. We shall make every effort to obtain the information received as soon as possible. It is indeed foreseen in the long term that taxable persons will be able to consult the information received from abroad under the Common Reporting Standard which relates to them through MyMinfin. After the successful processing of the information received, these will also be visible to the competent valuation services. Controls are indeed planned, the modalities of which still need to be defined. In the framework of the CRS, 590 223 information was communicated to the competent authority by the Belgian financial institutions subject to reporting. The technical format in which these financial institutions are required to communicate this information does not at present allow us to determine how many unique persons are involved, but is working on it.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic768x.u51	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. It was important to me that the tax inspector should be able to access that information when he has to assess the taxpayer's file. You've confirmed that. You said this is about confidential information, which I understand. Apart from the personal files, I think it is important for Parliament to have access to them on which countries and on how many files they are dealing with. I would ask you to read the confidentiality clause, because I believe that this is also the essence of Parliament's supervisory role.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic768x.u52	Mr Vanvelthoven, you have the floor for your question. 21033 on "tax regularisation'.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic768x.u53	Mr President, Minister, I am asking this question, although I think I have read the answer to it in part in the newspaper.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic768x.u54	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic768x.u55	Then perhaps it would be better to give me the answer and give me the figures in writing. Thanks for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic768x.u56	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Vanvelthoven's 21034 is converted into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Van Biesen's 21058 was converted into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Klaps' 21063 was converted into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Vanvelthoven's 21080 is converted into a written question. Questions Nos 21082 and 21229 by Mrs Gerkens and Mrs Winckel are postponed. Then we come to item 21 of our agenda, which is Mr Van der Maelen's combined questions. Since I have no news from Mr Van der Maelen, I shall delete his questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic768x.u57	Mr President, Mr Van der Maelen has asked to inform him before we get to his questions. He presides over Kazachgate's investigation committee. I'll give him a signal to let him know that his questions will be dealt with shortly.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic768x.u58	Okay. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Vermeulen has deleted 21105 because he has not informed us. Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Fonck's 21167 will be converted into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament Question No 211, by Mr Van Hecke 21169. Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Jiroflée (S). - (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by congratulating Mrs Jiroflée on her excellent report.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic768x.u59	Only Mr Gilkinet and Mr Vanvelthoven are present to ask their question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic768x.u60	Minister, the question is already one month old and many comments have since been made on the subject. Nevertheless, the first opinion of the Council of State on the draft law on the tax on securities accounts was particularly critical. In the De Standaard newspaper of 12 October last - we have since obtained the opinion as such - a comment puts the legal solidity of the text in the light of certain constitutional principles of equality between taxpayers but questions, indirectly, like us, like the Court of Auditors and almost all observers, the credibility of the revenue of 254 million euros announced since the beginning by the government. It is quite symptomatic that the method of taxation has changed ten times since 27 July. But invariably, the revenue announced remained at 254 million euros, which was also unbelievable in view of the many comments from tax practitioners explaining how to escape this famous tax. All right! Minister, when did you receive the advice from the Council of State and when did the other members of the government receive it? Who sent this notice to De Standaard? That's obviously a detail. How do you intend to take the opinion of the Council of State into account by ensuring the legal soundness of the text and the revenue announced? Can you give us a detailed calculation to estimate the revenue that the introduction of this tax would generate at EUR 254 million? On what statistical basis do you rely on this tax? Do you have any figures on the holding of securities accounts by Belgian citizens? How many Belgian taxpayers would be affected by the tax and how high would they be? These are my questions, but more generally, I wanted to take stock of this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic768x.u61	Minister, we have heard that the securities tax has been sent to the Council of State for the second time. What changes has the government made compared to the text sent to the Council of State the first time? What accountability has the government given for not subjecting unlisted shares? What is the government's responsibility for limiting securities tax to natural persons?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic768x.u62	Mr Laaouej is on his way. Maybe we'll wait for him, because he absolutely wanted to ask his question. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Thiébaut (Commission); Mr Thiébaut (Commission); Mr Thiébaut (Commission); Mr Thiébaut
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic768x.u63	Mr. Chairman, Mr.Minister, I am very concerned about the subject of my question. According to an article in the newspaper De Tijd published in early October, a certain tension reappears between France and Belgium on the famous Dexia file. Since 2012, Dexia has been a lethargy bank, a defancy structure, a bad bank that is expected to be phased out slowly as the bonds it holds or has granted matured. His portfolio of assets is gradually deflating. The balance sheet thus fell below EUR 200 billion last June. I would like to take this opportunity, Mr President, to remind you that I have asked to meet with those responsible for this bank to which the Belgian State provides an important guarantee. Dexia must, however, continue to finance its assets. As the bank is no longer operational, it does not have deposits and cannot claim the major financing operations of the European Central Bank. The Commission has also indicated that by 2021 it would close virtually all taps to banks that, like Dexia, are in liquidation. In the same year 2021, the possibility for the Belgian, French and Luxembourg States to issue new guarantees to help Dexia find financing on the market ends. The guaranteed debt will be phased out from that date until 2031. Today, however, Dexia finances €70 billion through these state guarantees. Without state guarantees, the bank may find it difficult to maintain its bank licence and simply to survive, which explains the call to the states. Of course, it is always possible to ask for these state guarantees to be extended, but this will have to be notified to Europe, which will regard this as new state aid. According to De Tijd, France remains in favour of a slow termination of the balance sheet and does not believe in a loss of bank licence after 2021. But Belgium would not agree and would like to speed up the dismantling. If the ECB, the bank agent, withdraws its licence, the group's debt should be included in the public accounts. Minister, can you tell me at what level and according to what timetable the options for the future of Dexia SA are being discussed between Belgium and France? Are you involved as Minister of Finance? What is Belgium's position in this context? Do you confirm the assumptions made by De Tijd? What is France's position? Do you confirm the risk of Dexia losing his bank license in 2021? What would be the consequence, particularly in relation to Belgium's debt? What about the Belgian State's guarantees in Dexia? How high are they today?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic768x.u64	Mr President, Mr Gilkinet, as she does for all banks under her supervision, the European Central Bank is asking for an update of the business plan. And as is done in all banks of the Banking Union, the members of the Dexia Board of Directors are considering these plans in the interests of the company and in the interests of current and future shareholders. The conclusions of these discussions were sent to the European Central Bank on 15 October. Belgian and French shareholders share the same final objectives in the Dexia file, i.e. as smooth a resolution as possible with minimal impact for the taxpayer. This was confirmed in the three discussions I had with the French Minister of Finance, Mr Le Maire. The loss of the bank licence is not requested by the supervisory authority. Dexia fulfils all its regulatory obligations laid down by the ECB. Capital-to-liquidity ratios are even better than they were a year ago, thanks to favourable market conditions and various management actions. Under the current regime, Dexia may issue new State-guaranteed bonds for a period of ten years, until the end of 2021. It is the guarantee for Dexia to be able to finance themselves effectively in the financial markets. On 13 October 2017, 67.5 billion were issued, of which 51.41 per cent, or 34.7 billion, was issued by the Belgian State.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic768x.u65	Minister, thank you for that clarification. It is a matter of constant concern to me. We are committed to 34 billion guarantees as part of the resolution of Dexia Bank. For the time being, bonds issued amounted to 2021. In 2021, unfortunately, the bank's resolution will not be completed. Maybe you won't be a finance minister anymore. Maybe I won't be a congressman anymore. Nevertheless, we have a collective responsibility, that is to ensure that the damage is limited for the future. Deferring them to a later date cannot satisfy me entirely. I hear you've met Mr. Le Maire, your French counterpart. I hope that the two countries are on the same page and that, contrary to the past, we will avoid being the turkeys of farce and bearing responsibilities that are not ours from a budgetary point of view. I hope so for present and future generations in Belgium. Thank you, Minister, for continuing to pay attention to the issue. I will continue to question you regularly.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic768x.u66	Mr President, thank you and my colleagues and the Minister of Finance for the flexibility. Minister, the government decided in its July agreement to introduce a tax on securities accounts of more than €500,000. For the past few days, the debate has been lively on this tax. You yourself are not convinced by its implementation, referring in particular to the risks of legal censorship before the Constitutional Court after a negative opinion of the Council of State. Things have actually turned out to be true. Furthermore, as we feared, the Council of State cautions that the principle of equality is not respected, in particular for two reasons: only natural persons holding securities accounts are subject to tax and not companies and only listed shares are subject to tax. You therefore have a legal problem that must be solved before the text is voted on, otherwise appeals to the Constitutional Court may rain. Minister, the amendments made to the draft legislation only partially meet the advice of the Council of State. So what do you intend to do to respond perfectly to the opinion of the Council of State and within what time frame? Are you going to propose a bill that only partially meets the advice of the Council of State?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic768x.u67	Gentlemen, the tax has been introduced for the purpose of more tax justice, and this is only for the action of the holder deposited on a securities account whose average value of the taxable financial instruments amounts to EUR 500 000 or more. The draft was submitted to the Council of State for second reading. When we read carefully what was put on paper by the Council of State in its first comment... It is clear that the Council of State is asking for more argument and not so much rejecting cases or forbids cases, but suggests that a number of options taken should be better explained. This has now been done in the second version, which, as indicated earlier, is in the pipeline. In this version, the argument for a number of options taken has been extended and strengthened. The following securities fall within the scope of the security account tax: listed and unlisted shares, as well as certificates, listed and unlisted bonds, as well as certificates, cash vouchers, warrants, trackers and equity rights in joint investment funds or shares in investment companies – provided they have not been contracted under a life insurance or pension savings plan. Mr Gilkinet, I can confirm that my office has not forwarded the opinion of the Council of State to the newspaper you have just quoted. In the choices made to leave certain shares out of the focus or scope, it has been very strong that we want that tax to be applied to the economic fabric in the minimum possible way. As explained in detail elsewhere, in particular the aspect of family businesses has been of great importance in making certain choices in or not in them.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic768x.u68	Minister, I do not have the impression that you fully believe in this text. And that's how I feel from the beginning. I note that it was not your office that forwarded the opinion of the Council of State to the Standaard. On the other hand, my reading of that opinion is somewhat different from yours. Of course, the Council of State would benefit, like other bodies, from expressing itself more clearly. However, when he feels that your decisions should be better justified, my interpretation is not that he opens a door, but rather that he closes it, considering that your choice is difficult to justify in the light of a possible appeal to the Constitutional Court. Therefore, announcing an initiative, without taking it in such a way that it can achieve a budgetary result in line with what is announced, is not correct in my view. Rather, it is an act of sabotage. That said, perhaps some members of the government will be credulous enough to believe that this text will bear fruit. The intention seems laudable to me, but it would have required greater progressivity. Why a threshold of 500,000 euros? Why exclude certain types of placements and not others? How will the control be conducted? Like other texts and initiatives of this government, I have the impression that these are still-born options. This does not augur well in terms of tax justice, but – as I said – we will resume the debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic768x.u69	Minister, I think there are two problems. First of all, it is the legal validity of the text. It does not seem to me that the comments of the Council of State have all been answered. I can imagine that some members of the government are trying to allow some cases to escape the tax on securities accounts. Such responsiveness to the interests of certain lobbies will obviously weaken your system. If you want a real levy with a genuine budget return, you will have to be able to rule out the interests of some lobbies who see only their small square. This applies both to this case and to corporate tax reform. We are already seeing the opinions of tax experts in the specialised press explaining how to circumvent the security account tax. I am thinking in particular of the article by Mr François Parisis, a specialist in property taxation and estate planning, which mentions in particular the possibility of avoiding the tax on securities accounts by means of a certain type of donation. He also referred to the possibility of lending securities, which would also avoid taxation. We can also add the fact that you risk seeing people leave the securities accounts to place their money in branch 23, for example, with a more advantageous tax. Beware of Legal Validity! Beware of the circumvention of the measure! Perhaps there should be an anti-abuse measure or a strengthening of a specific anti-abuse measure. Attention also to the anticipation of behaviors! This implies that budgetary performance may need to be reduced. The Court of Auditors does not say anything else in its report last week.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic768x.u70	Mr President, I am a little surprised that the Minister says that the Council of State calls for more and above all better arguments for the impact tax. The reading that we and others, including tax experts, make of it, is that the Council of State is very critical. That was also the reaction of one of the majority parties. The chairman of this committee is a member of that committee. The Council of State is talking about "possible discrimination" and "missing its mark." The goal is to burden the major assets. Minister, we are waiting for the follow-up, but this confirms that you are not a big supporter of the securities tax. The explanation you gave here scares the hell out of me. However, we await the final texts.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic768x.u71	Mr. Speaker, Minister, recently, the House passed a bill allowing, among other things, to extend the scope of mortgage credit to the acquisition or renovation of inland vessels. As a result, the prospective purchaser can apply for mortgage credit for this type of housing, as it would for traditional housing. However, it would appear that banks are relatively reluctant to grant this type of credit. The reasons given are diverse and sometimes ludicrous: some banks invoke technical problems resulting in computer impossibility, while others agree to grant mortgage credit for movable purposes but in this case demand an additional mortgage. All of this, recognize it, is not ideal and hinders the granting of a houseboat as a dwelling. Could you, Minister, re-examine the status of this legislation and its implementation? Have you ever received the same kind of information about the reluctance of some banks? What solution could you find so that banks can no longer hide behind futile pretexts to refuse these loans?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic768x.u72	Mr Crusnière, all matters relating to contracts relating to appropriations fall within the competence of the SPF Economie. With regard to mortgages in particular, the FSMA is solely competent for the proper application of the rules on access to the profession. I suggest you ask your questions to my colleague Kris Peeters, Minister of Economy.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic768x.u73	Mr President, I thank the Minister for his answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic768x.u74	The subject has been dealt with several times, including in plenary, but you will have the opportunity to ask the question again.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic768x.u75	Mr President, the questions date from 8 and 11 October respectively, but they have not been addressed by circumstances. First of all, Minister, do you insist that Diplomatic Card Services was properly authorised? Have any new elements emerged to justify the withdrawal of the authorisation? Secondly, where and when have the four contacts taken place between yourself, your cabinet and Mr Stockbroekx? Who was present at each of those four meetings and what was discussed there? How many similar contacts have there been with the representatives of the other companies that have been authorised? Thirdly, Mr Stockbroekx has also been kept informed by e-mail of developments in the new regulation dossier. You've confirmed that. I would like to get an overview of the e-mail traffic between your cabinet and Mr Stockbroekx since 15 January 2015, indicating the information provided to Mr Stockbroekx on the file. Fourthly, in the Seventh Day, you said the following: once we knew who he was, we were able to settle the problem. When exactly was that? Based on what intelligence did you know who he was? And what exactly do you mean by caltgestellt? Fifth and finally, I know of one audit by the BBI. Have there been any other audits?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic768x.u76	As far as the authorisation is concerned, Mr Van der Maelen, every candidate company has been the subject of a tax investigation with the FPS Finance, and more specifically by the FBI, when applying for authorisation. A number of criteria are examined. On the basis of the results of that investigation, an authorisation shall then be granted by the FOD or not. It should be noted that if the administration considers that certain elements could lead to the suspension of the authorisation, under the current stricter rules and unlike in the past, it may do so. I am now not aware of any signs that the authorisation would be changed or withdrawn for certain reasons and for certain operators. But I am assuming that this is also so that the administration will maintain the necessary supervision in that context and will act when it appears necessary. Following a meeting in my cabinet, the company Diplomatic Card Services was brought into contact with the competent department of the FPS Finance in order to identify and resolve a number of problems of both a technical and an administrative nature in the intervention as an authorised company in order to ensure the correct treatment of the exemption. After that, there will obviously have been a number of contacts with the tax administration, as with the other operators, in order to be able to adapt to the IT technical aspects of the new regulation and, of course, to the amended procedure. The policy cell also invited all operators, as well as Comeos, to present the draft new procedure, which was initiated by the tax administration in 2008, and to obtain the opinion of the authorised companies already active at that time. It concerns a total of three meetings, from the first draft of the notice to the final version. Each authorised undertaking was received in my cabinet and at the same time had access to the respective draft texts in order to adapt each to the new regime in a timely and competitive manner. The implementation of the technical adjustments, in close cooperation with the competent tax administration, has also been carried out constructively with each of the operators.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic768x.u77	Minister, I am very surprised that you are hiding behind the administration. You say that's what the administration does. May I remind you that, after contacting your cabinet, you yourself brought the person concerned into contact with the administration? I think I can derive from that or fear that there is some caution or restraint in the administration to really look at the dossier thoroughly. Mr Minister, I think there are at least three reasons why this authorisation should be examined very thoroughly. Firstly, we know from an e-mail from your cabinet to all companies that the intention is to have the KB enter into force on 1 February. What do we see? On 27 February, after the scheduled date of entry into force, DCS will exchange. Mr Stockbroekx is to be replaced by Sander Stockbroekx. If one examines the structure of the entire group of Diplomatic Card Services with the Netherlands and the other countries, it becomes clear that the pivot, the spider in the web, is Marc Stockbroekx. A screen was erected here to find a solution to the problem, namely Mr Stockbroekx's conviction. It is clear that the ultimate decision-maker is Marc Stockbroekx. As if that is not enough, it has become clear that Sander Stockbroekx is in bankruptcy in France. Article 12F of the Royal Decree states that drivers must not be in failure. Mr Sander Stockbroekx is in failure in France with Diplomatic Card Services, department of France. That is the second reason why the authorisation should be withdrawn. Finally, the same Article 12 of the Royal Decree states that the shareholders' register must contain the list of final stakeholders, the UBO register. We know from the BBI's investigation that in the Luxembourg company, which controls the Dutch company, which in turn controls the Belgian company, someone is sitting here. I will not mention any names that are very close to Mr Stockbroekx. From this we can conclude that he is once again, through the shareholder structure, the final interested party. I do not understand why your administration has not yet responded to that situation. My next point concerns the contacts that have taken place between yourself, your cabinet, your administration and Mr Stockbroekx. I have clearly asked you about the dates on which these contacts took place. I only know one date, namely 15 January 2015, the first contact. I'd really like to know the other dates. You did not answer my question from when you knew who Mr Stockbroekx was, so from when you calved him. According to my information, Mr Stockbroekx was present at the presentation of the new royal decree, the final contact. I therefore wonder when you will have calved it; I suppose after the whole procedure has been completed. If you've calved him before, I don't know why he got a permit after all. I did not receive an answer to my questions about the mail traffic between your cabinet and Mr Stockbroekx. Finally, I try to conclude with a positive note. Minister, do you not think that you, together with your fellow foreign minister, should take a look at the VAT exemption with your European colleagues? It seems to me that it is no longer justified to grant a VAT exemption for purely private purchases of diplomats. I can assume that a VAT exemption applies to diplomatic posts and their expenditure in our country; I can still agree with that. However, for purely private expenditure, it seems to me that it is no longer time for diplomats in Belgium to benefit from a VAT exemption.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic768x.u78	Mr President, were questions not attached? Was it another file? I only heard "VAT exemption". There were three questions about the Forax: Mr. Van der Maelen, Mr Gilkinet's and mine. So I'm going to turn my question into a written question, not to hear the same answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic768x.u79	It wasn't the same subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic768x.u80	Minister, Forax has received a mandate from the FPS Finances to manage the VAT exemption for diplomats, which you have just discussed with Mr. Van der Maelen, who called it an outcome of another time, while this company is under investigation for money laundering. You knew that when you gave him this deal. Forax reportedly received nearly one million euros from the British Virgin Islands. As I was telling you, I believe that public authorities must be exemplary in the fight against fraud and tax evasion. Forax was one of three candidates who wanted to be recognized as agents for the VAT exemption for diplomats. It was therefore audited by the ISI: "Because of suspicions of money laundering, the ISI transmitted the deposit to the CTIF, which specialises in this type of business." Despite these suspicions of the ISI, you and the FPS Finances have decided to mandate Forax, while the new legislation stipulates that mandated companies must be in good standing with the tax authorities. Your spokesperson, who is no longer present here, confirmed that your firm and the administration were aware of the investigation into Forax. It's all the more serious. We can't argue that things didn't happen knowingly. Minister, can you tell me why you gave this mandate and contract to Forax despite the suspicions of the ISI? Will you denounce the convention with Forax, as the legislation provides for, and within what time frame? What structural and cross-cutting measures do you commit to take to prevent future trade relations between the FPS Finances and companies in tax havens and/or whose good repute would be questionable, and what measures do you envisage to put an end to past commitments? In conclusion, I would like to say again: the public authorities must set an example in this type of case, and this is clearly and unfortunately not the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic768x.u81	Minister, as part of the Paradise Papers scandal, we learn from the press that the FPS Finance would have contractual ties with a company that is under investigation for money laundering in a tax haven. According to the press, it is a Luxembourg company which deals with the VAT exemption enjoyed by diplomats; the file is said to have been forwarded to the CTIF which processes financial information. Do you confirm that the file is at CTIF? Minister, the situation is, to say the least, serious. You obviously opened an investigation. So, can you give us any information? We can see here that the department's image is blurred. The FPS Finances is a serious institution that cannot afford to be involved closely or by far in such a scandal. A short time ago, you announced to Parliament that you were going to take initiatives to prevent the state from investing in tax havens. Yet, and this is strange, you have not suspended the contractual relationship with society. Why, in view of the serious facts alleged, did you not immediately suspend the ongoing proceedings with this company, pending the results of the investigation? Why don't you join the words?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic768x.u82	Minister, the Belgian company Forax is 99.99 % owned by Traxlux, a Luxembourg company. Traxlux has received a sudden injection of €900 000 into its capital by Sildenton Investments Ltd, a company that occurs several times in the Panama Papers. If the BBI is aware of this operation and knows that the CFI is carrying out an anti-money laundering operation, then I find it really weird that the BBI is just delivering that authorization. Secondly, I thought my colleagues have not yet asked this question, but I am not 100% sure. We've had access to the BBI audit. I looked at DCS mostly back then. I've looked less at Forax. According to my memory, but I may be mistaken, the file that was here at the committee secretariat did not mention the fact that the BBI was aware of the fact that the CFI was going to make a money laundering report. If that is correct, if I am not mistaken, I think that the committee has not been properly informed about this Forax file.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic768x.u83	Mr President, I would first like to point out that the new regime for this issue came about after we ourselves found in 2014-2015 that the existing system for electronic verification of VAT exemption for diplomats did not allow, or at least did not allow, sufficient monitoring, a situation that has existed for years. In other words, it was impossible for the tax administration to provide a clear picture of the nature and number of transactions endorsed by the exemption. There were also no conditions for or control of the intervention of the authorised companies. For the record. This is, of course, in no way consistent with the controlling and supervisory role assigned to the FPS Finance and has thus led to the creation of a new regime, which is not only more fraud-proof but also allows effective monitoring. The new regime that has now been introduced will therefore provide more clarity. From 1 January 2018, data will be collected that will provide insight and allow effective monitoring, as documents 450 and 451 will disappear for diplomatic missions and consular posts and their staff, and the e-certificate will be used generalisedly. In addition, unlike in the past, the new scheme also allows each intermediate authorised undertaking to carry out a thorough check on the application for authorisation and at any other time to withdraw the authorisation provisionally or not if the conditions for such authorisation are found to be no longer met, or if systematic anomalies are identified. My administration is bound by professional secrecy and therefore cannot communicate information on individual files. More generally, the current legislation already provides for a renewal of the authorisation given at the end of 2018. As part of this renewal, mandated firms will be re-checked to verify that they still meet the required conditions. In the meantime, it appears that the mentioned mandated firm, Forax in this case, no longer meets these conditions. The authorization may be suspended or revoked at any time and a tax check may be carried out. In addition, I can also confirm that the BBI reported the anti-money laundering cell in the relevant file as a result of actions relating to holding structures in the years 2010-2011. As soon as there is a reaction from the CFI, there can of course be legal action.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic768x.u84	Minister, your answer leaves me a little puzzled. You say your administration is bound by professional secrecy. This means that the FPS Finance cannot inform the FPS Finance! How do we check the compliance of an economic operator with whom we want to contract? It is the shoemaker who is the most ill-fitted... or a will to remain blind in the face of a situation. Your spokesman told the Standaard that you were aware of the problem. Do you confirm here that at any time, if we do not meet the conditions of his authorization, we can see his contract broken by the FPS Finances? What are you waiting for to do so when, obviously, there is a confirmed problem with this company? Your lack of proactivity makes me puzzled. This seems to me to be a clear example of what should not be done.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic768x.u85	Mr Minister, it is indeed appropriate to put in place clauses in future contractual relations, through public procurement and negotiated procedures, regardless of the context or contractual framework, allowing you to terminate at any time a contractual relationship without any form of compensation, as soon as it appears that the co-contractor is somehow linked to a tax haven. We look forward to hearing from you about this, but would like to see this measure implemented quickly. We'll come back to you to find out what's going on. In the current case, on the other hand, you decide to wait for the results of the investigation. But time is running out. We should be able to make the light as soon as possible. On the other hand, the credibility of an institution such as the FPS Finances has no price. One can imagine that there are people in the administration to say: be careful, one cannot unilaterally break a contractual relationship as one wishes! Well, we need to be able to mobilise legal creativity and legal competence to see what can be done when enforcement is not in good faith. It is a principle of the general theory of obligations in which the principle of the performance of a convention in good faith can be invoked in order precisely to question the link that may exist between two contracting parties: the Minister of Finance or the tax administration on the one hand, the private co-contractor on the other, from the moment the co-contractor behaved in the performance of the convention in such a way that it does not comply with the commitments made to its co-contractor. Here, it seems to me, one can question the good faith of someone who, while he knows that his co-contractor is the tax administration, allows himself to play with tax havens. That's not right! Mobilize legal competence. I consider that if there are compensations or if, in one way or another, this can have an impact on the Ministry of Finance, it must be possible to put this impact in relation to the credibility of the institution which has no price. What is the message vis-à-vis our fellow citizens? "Even the Ministry of Finance works with people who are in tax havens!" How do you want the agents, on the ground, to be able to convince of the legitimacy of their approach when they are going to correct a fiscal situation? People are going to tell them, "But you and your administration have been tied up with tax havens!" That's the problem! This is a matter of credibility. Thank you, Mr. President, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic768x.u86	Mr President, Minister, first of all, I support Mr Laaouej's request to review the authorisation granted not only on the basis of existing legislation. However, it is also time to look at the regulation itself and make it stricter. I have just forgotten, in the first dossier, for example, to mention that, contrary to the regulations, DCS grants an immediate exemption from VAT at the time of purchase. That is contrary to the rules. I am surprised that your administration has not yet responded. Secondly, I would like to ask the secretariat the following. I do not know if the document on the audit of the BBI, which we are concerned about, is still in the secretariat. I would like to look again at whether there has been a report on Forax that there was a money laundering report and that there has been an investigation by the CFI into money laundering. If that is the case, I will not ask any more questions. If that is not the case, and if it is not, then I consider that to be a failure and an error of information to the Chamber on a dossier on which I have not only developed different interpretations. Finally, Minister, I will come back with a question, until I have the right date of the sitting, until I have the documentation and the mail traffic between your cabinet and Mr Stockbroekx and until I know on what date you so-called caltgestelt him. Until that date, I will put questions in this committee, put them again and, if necessary, put them again. I will do so until I get an answer to these three elements.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic768x.u87	Ladies and gentlemen, I propose that we try to put only topical questions, otherwise we will never get there. We are now at item 29 of our agenda, which contains 97 items.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic768x.u88	Minister, I am being questioned about a Royal Order of July 13, 2017 setting out the allowances and allowances for federal public service employees and published in the Monitor on July 19. This royal order does not seem relevant to your FPS agents. I explain: a significant difference in treatment between the FPS finance and other FPS; where other FPS obtain a revalorisation or the maintenance of the acquis, the finance staff suffers the loss of a "prime" of 10 euros gross per control mission. This amount is intended to compensate for the use of a personal vehicle and to cover the meal expenses of agents. Personal vehicle use is essential for agents who often cover large distances. Public transport is not always a possible option, it is enough to see companies located in zonings. Minister, I must confess that I do not understand the lack of attention you pay to the officers of your FPS. Do you think it is appropriate to ask agents to use their vehicles to make travel impossible on public transport without financial compensation? I admit you don't understand too much anymore, you'd want to discourage agents that you wouldn't act differently.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic768x.u89	Minister, first of all, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Royal Order of July 13, 2017 falls within the jurisdiction of the Minister responsible for the public service. This decision was of course approved by the Council of Ministers, since it simplifies and modernises the granting of allowances and allowances. As stated in the report to the King, "the conditions for granting living expenses to cover meal expenses have been tightened for the entire federal civil service." In addition, unlike in the past, a single amount has been introduced, regardless of the level to which the staff belongs. The provisions governing the living expenses allowance are the same for all personnel in the federal public service. It is true, however, that the repeal of a Royal Order of 21 December 2013 and the presence of several Fedorest restaurants in the country, where a hot meal can be eaten at a more than democratic price, will result in the living expenses allowance, intended to cover meal expenses, being less often due than in the past. This allowance was never intended to compensate for the use of a personal vehicle. To this end, travel expenses allowances are available to cover service travel that is the same across the federal public service. I would like to say that I am establishing a permanent dialogue with the unions and that my intention is to pursue it. It has already brought versatile solutions to customs, their weapons, etc.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic768x.u90	I'm not convinced on the merits. On the basis of the elements in my possession, FPS Finance agents who have a specific function, who are forced to travel with their car and to be outside their office all day long, will be penalized by this reform. I am not sure that this will contribute to their motivation (10 euros gross per mission is not huge). When you have to use your own vehicle and you have to pay for meals, the restaurants to which the Minister refers are not distributed throughout the country. It is not easy to leave a company to go there. For my part, Mr Minister, it would be nice to come back with a file in the Council of Ministers to take account of the special nature of the tax controllers. This may apply to other social departments of labour or the Economic Inspectorate, I do not disagree. In this case, the particularities of the FPS Finances have not been taken into account and this is quite regrettable. I hope you will be committed to reforming the situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic768x.u91	Mr Laaouej, I ask you to turn your question No 21233 into a written question. Indeed, Mr. Piedboeuf has been waiting for 2:30 a.m. and I would like the MR to ask questions as well.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic768x.u92	If I may, Mr. Piedboeuf is a crane footer. I therefore turn my question into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic768x.u93	Mr President, Minister, it is my responsibility that the current functioning of the Tax Shelter unit established within the FPS Finances, following the reforms of 2013 and 2014, is unanimously criticized by producers, technical providers, intermediaries, etc. Delays in the issuance of tax shelter certificates are accumulating abnormally, causing increasing concern among investors. This leads me to ask you about the nature and scope of the controls on expenditure which must be carried out within the strict framework of Article 194ter of IARC 92, with a view to issuing the tax certificates provided for in this Article. The legislator has specifically defined the expenditure to be incurred by the producer in Belgium under the tax shelter as "expenditure which constitutes professional income taxable in Belgium in respect of their beneficiaries". This is an autonomous definition that is specific to the tax shelter system. The fact that the expenditure in question is taxable income in Belgium is what enables the State to collect its share of taxes and contributions on the same expenditure, thus contributing to the budgetary balance of the system. The purpose of expenditure control under the tax shelter is therefore to verify that the expenditure has actually been made; that the proportion of expenditure "directly linked" (minimum 70%) and "not directly linked" (maximum 30%) has been respected; that these expenditure actually generates a professional income in Belgium in the head of their beneficiary. The travaux préparatoires of the Act also specify that it should not be a detailed tax control. At no time, therefore, has the legislator intended to give the administration the power to assess, in an appropriate manner, the expenditure incurred by producers in the strict control to be carried out in accordance with Article 194b. Nor at any time did the legislator wish to give the administration the power to make a subjective judgment on the amount of these expenses, and this is particularly wise. It is not conceivable that the administration could, for example, question the remuneration of an actor on the ground that another actor would have requested less for the same artistic performance. I therefore believe that a recasting of the checks to be carried out in the context of the issue of tax shelter certificates is necessary, under the risk that the whole system will collapse under the heaviness of the checks in question. Minister, can you confirm that you share this view regarding the nature and scope of the controls to be carried out under section 194ter of IRC 92 for the issuance of certificates?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic768x.u94	Mr Piedboeuf, the Tax Shelter cell has a duty to verify whether the expenses incurred were incurred for the realization, production and exploitation of the work. The difficulties in establishing this evidence by the production companies relate mainly to the benefits which are rebilled. In some cases, these recalculated expenditures are with a profit margin. It is not uncommon for rebilling to occur within a group. This margin is the consideration for an effective benefit from the corporation, separate from the benefit that is rebilled. This margin corresponds to an expenditure made for the production and exploitation of the film in question. The production company must, as in the case of the initial performance, establish the link between the performance invoiced as a margin and the production or exploitation of the work. To this end, the assets and staff available to the margin-taking company can be used as indicators. There can be no question of admitting as an expenditure for the application of the tax shelter scheme a commission which does not correspond to any benefit, notwithstanding that it constitutes taxable income in Belgium. Particular attention must be paid to intra-group billings, as is the case with the control of other tax provisions. Where appropriate, the margin could be described as indirect expenditure, while the main benefit is considered a direct expenditure. Similarly, a re-invoicing of foreign expenditure cannot lead to such expenditure being qualified as expenditure in Belgium. Contrary to what you assume, tax shelter control cannot be completely dissociated from Article 49 of the Income Tax Code. Where an expenditure made for the production, production or exploitation of a film is admitted as such by the administration, it may be inferred from it, a priori, that it meets the requirements of Article 49 of the abovementioned Code, since it is carried out, in principle, in the course of the professional activity of the company and with a view to collecting or retaining taxable income. Certain expenses may still be rejected on the grounds that they do not comply with the requirements of other articles limiting the deduction of professional expenses. The will of the legislator expressed in the parliamentary work you are quoting must be put in context. In this context, I would like to refer you to the note on the tax shelter approved by the Walloon, Brussels and Flemish audiovisual technical industries, accompanied by TWIST, UB&BV and Wallimage Entreprise, appended to the hearings on the tax shelter reform. It states, inter alia, that the main focus of interest for the signatories is and remains the quality and quantity of Belgian expenditure and that the solution is through regulation and control. In this way, they demand that expenditure controls be centralized and intelligent. It seems useful to the signatories to form a central tax shelter unit which, by its better understanding of the trade, could at best verify that it is an economic reality for the industry, behind all the expenditure subject to the controls. It is normal for the strengthening of the controls requested by the sector itself to lead to an extension of the examination period to verify the link between the different expenditure and the eligible work.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic768x.u95	Minister, thank you for your answer, which is quite specific. I know of cases where the cell rejected certain expenses because the equipment was amortized. This seems a little weird, as they were subcontractors. I'm going to go through the file again.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic768x.u96	Mr President, before I ask this question, I should like to inform you that I turn my questions Nos 21558 and 21957 into written questions, if the minister can give me his answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic768x.u97	That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic768x.u98	Minister, the press has reported extensively that a very large number of goods from China, officially in transit at the port of Antwerp or at the airport of Zaventem to another EU Member State, are in fact diverted to unknown destinations. De facto, the payment of VAT is clearly beyond the control of any public authority. Some estimate that the total amount of these frauds could be around EUR 5 billion on an annual basis. The problem is not just about Belgium. Other entry points within the Community area may be affected by such fraudulent mechanisms. Nevertheless, it is important that concrete measures be studied and adopted with our European partners. Minister, what is the state of affairs regarding fraudulent mechanisms in our country? Which are the main countries involved in the shipment of goods to the core of the mentioned traffic? What measures are currently being taken to limit the impact of this problem, together with your government colleagues and our European partners?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic768x.u99	Mr Calomne, with regard to e-commerce, the current VAT rules are handled fraudulently by operators established outside the European Union, either in order to misunderstand the conditions of exemption from imports of low value goods or in order to avoid VAT identification requirements. A particular form of such pre-sale fraud to individuals is at the level of customs declarations validated on importation for which VAT exemption is granted when the goods are intended to be transported to a taxable person in another Member State. It has been found that the goods are invoiced to defaulting operators and that the goods are, in fact, sent to warehouses of other persons in other Member States. Therefore, there is no loss of VAT in the importing Member State, but VAT losses on the resale of these goods to individuals. All Member States appear to be affected in one way or another by this practice. Currently, efficient risk analysis systems are being used to detect suspicious asset flows at both Belgian and European levels. At European level, this is the Eurofisc network. In the future, it is envisaged that these operational measures, which are already in place, will be strengthened and refined. As far as regulatory measures are concerned, there are also avenues for reflection, such as the introduction of joint responsibility for the payment of VAT in the head of key players in the commercial chain, in particular electronic platforms. As has been demonstrated in the experience of other Member States, the effectiveness of this unilateral measure at national level knows its limits, but clearly contributes to better tracking of goods by these key players in commercial chains. Belgium therefore very actively supports the attempts of the current Presidency of the Council to reach a consensus among the Member States on the European Commission's proposal on electronic commerce.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic768x.u100	Minister, thank you for that answer. Fraud does not have borders and, as you have indicated, it is appropriate to strengthen and improve a number of mechanisms to be put in place both internally and at Community level. I can of course only support and encourage you in this direction.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic768x.u101	Question No 21325 by Mrs Lanjri is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic768x.u102	The finance.belgium.be website offers a complete table listing all the filing deadlines for companies. In the French, Dutch and German versions, it is indicated "Month of the statutory general assembly". I'm wondering about the word "statutory." In accordance with article 310 of the Income Tax Code, corporations or other legal persons subject to corporate tax, corporate tax and non-resident tax have a time limit for filing their returns that may not be less than one month from the date of approval of the annual accounts or revenue and expenditure accounts; or more than six months from the date of closure of the accounting year. It refers to the date on which the accounts are approved, but does not refer to the date on which the corporation must hold its general meeting according to its articles of association. Point 310/3 of the Administrative Comment of the Code states as regards the approval of the accounts: "It should be noted that when the general meeting which approves the annual accounts is held on a date other than that fixed by the statutes, the actual date of approval must be taken into account in determining the starting point for the period of one month". This part of the commentary based on a judgment of the Antwerp Court of Appeal of 26 November 1991 has become obsolete or is it still the actual date of approval that must be taken into consideration rather than the statutory date? On the basis of the above tables, is there not a risk that fines will be wrongly applied, with all the inconveniences that this may cause?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic768x.u103	Mr Piedboeuf, in accordance with the Code of Companies, the instrument of incorporation of a company must indicate the place, day and time of the ordinary general meeting. It shall take place once a year, within six months of the end of the financial year, and shall in principle approve the annual accounts. In this case, pursuant to Article 310 of the Income Tax Code, legal persons subject to corporate tax, corporate tax or tax of non-residents/corporations shall have a period within which to file their return which may not be less than one month from the date of approval, either annual accounts or revenue and expenditure accounts, or more than six months from the date of closure of the accounting year. It may, however, be that the general meeting for the approval of the accounts differs from that provided for in the above-mentioned constitutive act. However, since tax legislation is of public policy, especially with regard to compliance with time limits, it is up to the taxpayer to demonstrate that the requirements of the Company Code have been met. If this evidence is provided, it will be the actual date of approval of the accounts that will be taken into account in determining the starting point for the period of one month covered by the same article of the Income Tax Code, without the time limit for filing the return being longer than six months, from the closing date of the accounting year. It goes without saying that, in this case, no administrative fines will be applied.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic768x.u104	Thank you, Minister. You answered me.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic768x.u105	Question No 21391 by Mrs Pas was withdrawn. Question No 21393 by Mr Van den Broek, on behalf of the Committee on Van Biesen is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic768x.u106	Mr. Chair, Minister, as part of an analysis of section 90, 9°, 1st indent of the Income Tax Code, one may wonder how to calculate taxable surplus value. In order to determine the taxable basis, reference is made to Article 192 of the Code, which states that "the capital gains referred to in Article 90 shall mean the difference between the price received, in cash, in securities or in any other form, in return for the transferred shares or shares and the price to which the taxpayer or its author has acquired, for consideration, the said shares or shares, the price being possibly revalued in accordance with Article 2(1)." However, this article does not make it possible to clearly determine the acquisition value in the context of a stock transfer on payment of the price per lifetime annuity. However, it is necessary to be able to determine the acquisition value of the transferred shares in order to determine the amount of any taxable surplus value in the event of resale. Can this be done by capitalizing the lifetime pension, taking into account the age of the assignor on the basis of the Schryvers tables? To my knowledge, there is no administrative comment on how the tax administration would calculate the acquisition value in this particular case. Minister, could you tell me how to proceed in this case?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic768x.u107	Mr Piedboeuf, it should be pointed out that the question relates to the realization of an added value on shares which is not the result of normal management operations of a private asset. So we do not have anything to set the context for it. However, in the normal order of business, the taxpayer who acquires shares is supposed to know their value in order to be able to negotiate the acquisition price. It is this price, in principle known to the protagonists, that serves as the basis for determining the lifetime annuity. The taxpayer who realizes the surplus-value therefore has, in principle, all the elements necessary to calculate its surplus-value and to report it to income tax. In the event of control, the administration may use all the means available to it, including, in particular, the capitalisation tables, to verify whether the surplus-value has been correctly determined.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic768x.u108	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic768x.u109	Mr President, Mr Minister, my intention is not to mention a particular case here because, with the next reform of corporate tax, this may well be happening again. I was aware of a notice of rectification of the declaration sent by the Charleroi SME Centre and signed by an expert. It has three main lines: - tax base declared as corporate tax: zero euro - remuneration awarded to a manager according to the profit and loss account: EUR 24 000 - the company is excluded from the reduced rate referred to in Article 215. Indeed, this rate is not applicable to companies that do not allocate to at least one of their directors (...) 36 000 euros. It will soon be 45,000 or 75,000 euros, we will see that. Minister, is this a correct application of the above-mentioned legal provision? If this is not the case, have public servants thought about the impact of such a mail sent to the taxpayer? Who will have to pay the fees for the response to serve the administration that it is wrong?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic768x.u110	Mr Piedboeuf, your question refers to an excerpt from a notice of rectification whose context is not known. If the tax is actually based on these three assumptions, without an increase in the taxable base, there is clearly a misapplication of the reduced rate provisions. For the sake of correction, it will be necessary to know more about this context and to see the circumstances in which such an error was made. However, since the error is obvious and does not result in any consequence, the controller's good faith does not seem to have to be called into question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic768x.u111	Minister, thank you. This was an end-of-day teasing!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic768x.u112	You've finished your day with four questions!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic768x.u113	Minister, I would like to ask you about the installation of the FPS Finance infocenters. If my information is correct, there would be eleven: five in Flanders and Wallonia and one in Brussels. Among the many services offered are the registration of documents, the issuance of declarations and certificates, and the development of reimbursement and payment plans. So it's not annoyance. In the geographical distribution of these services, the Walloon Brabant has again been forgotten, even though offices are available to accommodate an infocenter. The Brabonish Walloon citizens must therefore travel to Mons, Charleroi or Namur, depending on their municipality of residence. Although the decision to create infocenters was born of a desire for proximity, it must be noted that this objective will not be achieved in Walloon Brabant. Minister, can you give me the criteria according to which the distribution of the different infocenters has been established? While, for example, the province of Hainaut has two - in Mons and Charleroi - the province of Walloon Brabant has none. Can you give me the reasons for this absence?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic768x.u114	Mr Crusnière, the will of the FPS Finances is above all to strengthen the organisation of contacts face to face with the citizen, so that our users can find what they are looking for in all our subjects, through a single point of contact. This implies the organisation of infocenters for a more professional reception of the citizen. We're setting up eleven infocenters. Citizens can visit each of these centres, regardless of their home. The infocenters, however, do not provide telephone reception, which is provided in the Contact Center. In addition, in the case of a change in the account number for a tax refund, the delivery of certificates, or the request for a payment plan, a visit to the infocenter is absolutely not necessary because these steps can also be carried out by electronic means. At the same time, the administration has also implemented new conditions for the granting of clearance plans. Currently, these rules are communicated to the public through all possible channels. However, the new measures give rise to many questions, which are posed by telephone, especially after the sending of notices-extracts. During peak periods, the Contact Center is actually overloaded with questions. During the peak period, i.e. when the IPP warnings are sent, the Contact Center will be strengthened by agents from the collection and recovery administration, in order to absorb as much as possible the telephone calls that reach it during this period. In the event of conflict or insult to officers, officers may report such harassment to the SIPPT where psychologists provide them with all necessary assistance. The SIPPT works closely with the Internal Inspection Department of the AG Perception and Recovery, which is conducting a communication campaign, among others, on this subject. Specific information sessions on the staff of the infocenters are also under way. The location of the FPS Finance infocenters has been selected taking into account different factors: geographical distance, accessibility of public transport and government availability. Depending on their home or place of work, a resident of Walloon Brabant can, for example, go to Mons, Charleroi, Namur or Brussels.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic768x.u115	Minister, thank you for your answer. Again, we clearly see that the Walloon Brabant is completely forgotten. It is not only in this matter that we are always told that it is possible to go to Mons, Charleroi, Namur or Brussels. I think the goal of the infocenters is to have a close relationship. I am very much in favour of implementing this type of infocenters, especially as we are significantly reducing the number of contribution offices. Before that, there was a contribution office in each municipality. This is no longer the case today. There was a will to make this closeness disappear. I have not had a precise answer to the objective criteria which have meant that in Walloon Brabant there are none. I invite you to reconsider your position. Be aware that the province of Walloon Brabant has buildings that can be made available to create such infocenters. I ask you, as far as possible, to reconsider your position on this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic768x.u116	Minister, I would like to ask you about the closure of the customs and excise office in Walloon Brabant. After the decision not to open an infocentre in Walloon Brabant, this new decision has cause for concern. Minister, can you confirm to me that the customs office in Ottignies-Louvain-la-Neuve will close its doors? If so, can you give me the reasons for this closure? Can you, in particular, give me the criteria on which the closure decision was made? Finally, can you tell me whether this closure will have an impact in terms of jobs? What will become of the people who currently work for the Ottignies-based customs office? Will social dialogue be organised? When will staff be set for their future?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic768x.u117	Mr Crusnière, the General Administration of Customs and Excise does not participate in the infocentres. The administration is constantly moving to meet the expectations of our citizens in the most efficient way possible. On the other hand, no structural decision at regional level has yet been endorsed and, in any event, no job losses could result. Your information that the customs office based in Ottignies-Louvain-la-Neuve will close is therefore incorrect.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic768x.u118	Minister, that is a clear answer! There was a lot of concern, whether in the head of the Walloon Brabant or in the head of the FPS Finances customs officers who work in Walloon Brabant. I would remind you that much of Wallonia's economic activity is in Walloon Brabant and I think it would be a big mistake to close the customs office there. I take note of the fact that the decision is not taken, and I thank you for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic768x.u119	Debates of the European Parliament Question No 214, by Mrs Lahaye-Battheu 21415 by Mrs Smaers will be converted into written questions. Debates of the European Parliament Question No 214, by Mr Calvo Mr Vanden Burre's 21455 is deleted. Debates of the European Parliament Question No 214, by Mr Dispa Mr Calomne's 21558 were converted into written questions. Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Jadin's 21576 is deleted. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Klaps' 21618 questions and the combined questions Nos 21627, 21695 and 21887 by Mrs Dierick and Mr Dispa and Mr Gilkinet will be converted into written questions. I shall now turn to my question No. 21663 last couples. We are now addressing Mr Vanvelthoven's questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic768x.u120	Mr President, I have already said that my questions Nos 21684, 21685 and 21686 may be converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic768x.u121	Minister, the una-via Act of 20 September 2012 contains two important components, in particular the consultation between the tax authorities and the public prosecutor and the provisional or definitive suspension of the payment of fines and tax increases. The Constitutional Court partially annulled the law on the basis of the violation of the principle of non bis in idem. However, the law is an important instrument in the fight against tax fraud and its repair is therefore really urgent. Your predecessor, Ms Sleurs, announced in her February 2015 Action Plan that she would provide a solution by June 2015. Afterwards, you became competent. I've already questioned you about the failure to repair the law. In January 2016, you replied that it was being worked hard and that it was a complex dossier. I understand that, of course, but 2017 is almost over. I would therefore like to see a state of affairs, Minister. When can we expect your design to be repaired?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic768x.u122	Mr Vanvelthoven, I can confirm that many bilateral contacts have already taken place between the two relevant policy cells, in the case of Finance and Justice, in order to follow up on the una-via. However, it is extremely complex and we have not yet been able to decide. I won't be silly about that, but I do confirm that everyone, including the Justice Department, has now made a commitment to effectively submit a draft to repair in the Chamber in the course of 2018.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic768x.u123	It will continue, Minister. I don't know what the exact cause is. The file itself is complex. It may also be complex to get your records on the same page. I'm gonna follow it up and maybe I'm gonna have to tell the Minister of Justice too.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic768x.u124	Questions Nos 21694 and 21696 by Mr Dispa and 21705 by Mr Vanvelthoven are converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic768x.u125	Mr President, Minister, this is about the control action you have cancelled. Here are my most important questions. Can you confirm that the action is one of the so-called control actions you announced? Has the action started through an internal instruction? If so, when did this instruction date and by whom was it approved? For what reason was she stopped by you? How did you actually do that? Was there a new instruction issued? What are you basing yourself on to stop a control action? On what legal basis do you support to reclaim the tax authority in pending files? What is happening in concrete terms with the files that have already been completed? What is happening in concrete terms with the pending files? Do you see any resemblance to the control action on abuse of the reduced VAT rate? There, too, it could be said that your predecessor had clearly stated in answers to parliamentary questions that there was no abuse, while the administration ignored this answer and launched a control action. Why didn't you backtrack the administration of this control action?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic768x.u126	Mr Vanvelthoven, the General Administration of Taxation has effectively registered in the 2017 work plan of its valuation services an audit action aimed at the liquidation operations. This control action, like others, is not included in the list that was announced proactively on 18 April 2017. The internal guidelines for the action were distributed by the administration at the end of April this year. Those Directives provided, inter alia, that an advance payment on a payment made under the debt before 1 October 2014 and thus not yet paid effectively could not be considered as being granted within the meaning of Article 267, so that the advance payment could not benefit from a tax rate in the withholding tax of 10%. However, my predecessor had in reply to a question I do not know whether it was in committee or in plenary, so let me say in the middle that the granting of an advance on the liquidation bonus, as well as the validation of an advance on the liquidation bonus, means that the withholding tax is due and that the tax rate of the withholding tax is 10% if the advance was granted before 1 October 2014. In this context, after serious analysis of the situation in this area, I believe that it is appropriate to stop this action and have asked the administration to send a communication to the valuation services. In any event, the examination of outstanding files will not continue.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic768x.u127	Mr Minister, I understand from your reply that the assessment is being cancelled in the follow-up to the audit. I wonder whether this is true of all the corrections resulting from the control or whether this is limited to the problem of the transitional arrangements. I can imagine that other things might be put right at the time of the audit.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic768x.u128	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic768x.u129	Okay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic768x.u130	Minister, a few weeks ago I questioned you about certain elements of corporate tax reform. You replied that the government was finalising the reform and that you would give a detailed answer when the government is done with it. In the meantime, you have made a note known to the world in which you explain a number of things. I therefore assume that the government is done with this work and that I can expect an answer to my question. The anti-avoidance Directive of 12 July 2016 includes a general anti-abuse rule, in particular Article 6 of the Directive. For the purposes of calculating the tax due, it is a construction or a series of constructions designed to obtain a tax advantage as one of the main objectives, which undermines the application of the applicable tax law and is artificial. According to the preamble to the Directive, it is necessary to ensure that the general anti-abuse rules apply uniformly in domestic situations, within the Union and vis-à-vis third countries, so that their scope and the results of their application do not differ in domestic and cross-border situations. In reply to my previous question on Article 6 of the directive, you said that the anti-abuse clause would be transposed from the directive, but that it would still be examined whether it would be done by amending Article 344 of the Income Tax Code. I quote: 'We will indeed introduce this. It is currently being examined whether, and if so, how the anti-abuse provision of the Code should be effectively adapted. Minister, can you confirm that the government's draft for corporate tax reform amends Article 344 of the WIB to bring the article into line with the directive? If not, will Article 6 of the abovementioned Directive be transposed into Belgian law by any other means? The note, which you made public, does not mention the transposition of Article 6 of the directive. Hence my question for clarification.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic768x.u131	Mr Vanvelthoven, we will be discussing the reform of corporate tax in smells and colours very soon. I understand your question and, moreover, your next four, I understand your request, but I strongly support the debate on the subject in the context of the very exhaustive debate that we will have in the coming weeks in connection with the reform of corporation tax. If you agree, we can all be more positive about this.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic768x.u132	Mr President, I would have preferred an answer today if I could have done so. Anyway, I note that the Minister is still considering his answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic768x.u133	Mr Vanvelthoven, I propose that you keep your questions Nos 21720, 21721, 21722, 21723 and 21724 and put them during the debate on company tax reform. So you don't delete them, but you postpone them.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic768x.u134	Yeah, well, they'll be added to the discussion, I suppose, if they're postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic768x.u135	Yes. We shall postpone these questions and they will then be on the agenda at any time.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic768x.u136	Questions Nos 21743 and 21752 by Mr Klaps are converted into written questions. Debates of the European Parliament Question No 217, by Mrs Galant and Question No 217, by Mrs Galant Mrs Jadin's 21815 is deleted. Debates of the European Parliament Question No 21825 by Mr Dedecker and Questions Nos 21831 and 22024 by Mr Gilkinet and Mr Scourneau will be converted into written questions. Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Smaers and Questions Nos 21834, 21835, 21836 and 21837 by Mr Deseyn are postponed. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Flahaux's 21840 was converted into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Galant's 21855 is deleted. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Dedecker's 21869 question was converted into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Jadin's 21883 is deleted. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Gilkinet's 21888 was converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic768x.u137	Mr President, Minister, at one point we found that negotiations with Andorra for the conclusion of a double taxation treaty were started. Minister, you have acknowledged in the press that negotiations for the conclusion of a double taxation agreement with Andorra are under way. Did you give the administration permission to do this? If so, when? Where are the negotiations in concrete terms? Why was this not presented to Parliament in advance? When will you publish the Royal Decree with the list of tax havens according to the definition of Article 307 of the WIB, which was amended in July 2016 on your proposal and following the Panama Papers? Given that you always refer to the European list, can we assume that you will refrain from publishing an KB in accordance with Article 307 of the WIB?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic768x.u138	Mr Vanvelthoven, Belgium concluded an agreement with Andorra on the exchange of tax information in 2009. That agreement was approved by Parliament in 2011 and effectively entered into force in 2015. The Protocol to that Agreement provides that Belgium and Andorra shall open negotiations on the conclusion of an agreement to avoid double taxation once Andorra introduces a tax on the profits of companies. In the meantime, this has actually happened in 2012. At the request of Andorra, a delegation from the FPS Finance had a first, purely technical discussion with an Andorran delegation. This meeting took place in November. Thanks to this discussion, both delegations were able to ask their respective questions and examine tax systems. On the basis of the report which will be submitted to me by the Belgian delegation, and which I do not have at present, an evaluation can be made on the further progress of the dossier. In this context, the results of BEPS on tax agreements will of course also be taken into account. I think I have answered your question more or less, Mr Vanvelthoven.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic768x.u139	Minister, I also asked a question about the prior referral to Parliament, one of the recommendations of our special committee 'Panama Papers'.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic768x.u140	You mean, of course, the Finance Committee?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic768x.u141	Yes, but it's a recommendation from the Special Committee on Panama Papers.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic768x.u142	I want to say very clearly and for the record that I have no problem doing that. This may help to avoid future misunderstandings or uncertainties about the double taxation treaties, which are already too common.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic768x.u143	Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic768x.u144	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Van Biesen's 21906 was converted into a written question. Vague No. Mr Laaouej has converted 21918 into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Hellings' 21920 was postponed. Debates of the European Parliament A written question by Mrs Cassart-Mailleux will be converted into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Van Hees' 21961 was converted into a written question. Questions Nos 21967, 21968 and 21969 by Mr Bogaert are deleted. Debates of the European Parliament 21975 by Mr Klaps, on behalf of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. Debates of the European Parliament 21987 by Mrs Uyttersprot is converted into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament 21990 by Mrs Lanjri is converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic768x.u145	Mr President, Minister, this question concerns carat tax. Time has devoted an investigation to this and has looked at the 100 largest diamond companies and found that since the introduction of carat tax their turnover has remained about the same, but that their profits have increased by a factor of 12. You have read that and responded to it. Apart from the changed context, in particular the introduction of carat tax, there is no other economic reason to explain why the sector would suddenly be so much more profitable. So it seems that the companies concerned have hidden their real profits from the tax authorities in recent years. It also appears that the profitability at which the carat tax rate was calculated was also assessed far too low. Minister, I would like to hear from you the following. Does the administration consider the sudden increase in profits in the case of constant turnover, and this immediately after the introduction of carat tax, to be a possible indication of tax fraud in recent years? Have you ordered a sectoral control action as a result of these revelations? Do you agree with me that the percentage set in the carat tax to determine the flat-rate profit is now indisputably an important understatement of actual profitability? Have you informed the European Commission of this, or will you? The European Commission has given the green light to carat tax at some point. However, in the light of the new revelations, the percentage to determine the flat-rate profit may be questioned.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic768x.u146	Mr Vanvelthoven, I have made the same observations as you, which still need to be looked into further and on which the necessary analyses need to be carried out. The necessary analyses on the basis of tax declarations, which have not yet all been processed, and other available data will be carried out consistently, as for each sector. Only then can we have a complete picture to interpret correctly the figures that are what they are now and to give them tax explanations. In view of these elements, it is premature for me to question the rates and the application of the system at the moment. Once again, on the basis of these analyses, I cannot and will not exclude anything from conclusions that we should draw. All I can see is that the overall tax contribution of the diamond sector is substantially increasing. Finally, you yourself say that the European Commission gave the green light at the time. As in many of the dossiers we are discussing with Europe, there will certainly be a follow-up here to share the results, if we do not get spontaneous questions about this.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic768x.u147	Minister, I note that this will be checked by your administration and that the necessary analyses will be carried out on the basis of the specific dossiers. I shall come back to this in due course to hear the result.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic768x.u148	At the end of this sitting, Minister, I would like to ask you a question on an issue for which we do not really have much attention. We have often had discussions about the European Central Bank and European monetary policy. My question, which I submitted a few weeks ago, concerns the European Central Bank's buy-back programme. We have never mentioned this in our Parliament. From January, the European Central Bank's purchasing programme will be halved from EUR 60 billion to EUR 30 billion per month. After September 2018, the European Central Bank will not stop buying these products abruptly. There is a need to make purchases for a longer period of time for lower amounts, suggesting a cautious approach. So there was no 180-degree bend. Minister, as Minister for Finance, I would like to ask you how you assess the impact of this new European Central Bank policy on interest rates, inflation, housing credits, savings and housing prices. Are there any consequences for the euro? The smooth policy of the ECB has meant that the euro has been somewhat depreciating with regard to the dollar and that bond yields have also declined. How is that generally experienced? The same demand applies to the effects on growth and employment in the Belgian economy. My question is broad, but I wanted to bring this up in Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic768x.u149	It is, of course, a fact that is taking place above our heads, but of course it has a very large impact on the movement of the entire economic system. Perhaps first a general remark. This is the first year in which we see that virtually all the major institutions across the board are finally adjusting their growth forecasts upwards. Over the past few years we systematically left with a relatively optimistic attitude, and then in the course of the year we clashed with all kinds of factors, depending on the year and the moment, which made sure that the predictions had to be adjusted downwards. There is a certain momentum in the world economy, despite the many uncertainties we all know, such as geopolitics, China, the Chinese model, the United States and so on. A very unusual policy does not seem illogical from that point of view. People like you and I have been following this for decades: we have never seen the Central Bank intervene in this way. For the sake of clarity, there were very good reasons to do so, particularly in the period of the financial crisis, otherwise we might have had a repeat of the 1930s. Now we're actually screwing it back. I believe that this was more or less in line with market expectations, for example, when we look at the impact on the euro, which you referred to. That exchange rate has been fluctuating a bit, but not really in a very brutal, abrupt or even lasting way. However, we still have to take into account the fact that there are many other factors which are going to affect such an important exchange rate as that of the euro and the dollar. Specifically as far as Belgium is concerned, this policy indicates that we may be able to count on an even longer period of low to very low interest rates, which, of course, benefits the financing of public debt and the budget in general. Of course, this also offers financial opportunities for the private sector in terms of financing their investments and activities. It is of course true that this policy also has consequences, for example on the proceeds for savers and the profitability of banks and insurers. In addition, there is a risk that soap bubbles may arise in certain sub-markets in the economy or some of that order of magnitude. Overall, the impact of what has now been announced has remained relatively limited. I believe that we are evolving towards the continuation of relatively low interest rates. The question then is, of course, when, at what time, and in what order, the next step of the ECB will be achieved. Of course, what the Federal Reserve and the Bank of Japan are doing is also an important element, which is motivated by circumstances typical of those countries or regions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic768x.u150	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-11-22-54-commissie-ic768x.u151	Thank you, Minister, for your long presence, which allowed us to deal with all the questions.
