ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic576x.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, welcome to the Infrastructure Committee. Since Mr Devin is not here yet, I suggest that we start with Mrs Poncelet's question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic576x.u2	Mr President, Minister, my question concerns the pilot project on cross-border pricing between Belgium and the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg. In July, in response to my parliamentary question, you confirmed that a pilot project with more advantageous pricing and the free Park & Ride (P&R) for commuters should be operational for changing schedules in December 2017. We can only welcome such an initiative because it becomes imperative to reduce congestion in the road network to the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg and, in particular, to the city of Luxembourg. I remember that this cross-border shuttle could take its departure to Viville. However, the Marbehan railway station holds a central position in the south of the province of Luxembourg. Indeed, before the last transport plan was implemented, this station hosted an average of 5,025 commuters per week, or 822 people per day. Unfortunately, after the adoption of the plan, these figures have been drastically reduced. But I am also thinking of the other stations in the province which also welcome a large number of travellers travelling to Luxembourg every day. If, from now on, a cross-border tariff were to be applied only from Viville, it would be simply the desertification of this station and of stations close to Viville. I am thinking in particular of those of Marbehan and Habay. If we want to keep a train offer to Luxembourg, however small, we need to expand the number of stations that can benefit from a preferential tariff under this pilot cross-border pricing project. The future of this public service in our rural areas is at stake. I would add that Marbehan station is already largely equipped with large parking lots nearby. Minister, what is this pilot cross-border pricing project really about? When will it be implemented and for what period? Which stations will they be affected? Finally, would it be possible to extend the area of application of the pilot project to other stations and, at least, to the Marbehan station?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic576x.u3	Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Poncelet, the SNCB tells me that negotiations with the CFLs on a more attractive cross-border pricing for home-to-work transport between Belgium and Luxembourg are still under way but have already resulted in a proposal for a uniform reduction which would be applied to all monthly and annual home-to-work subscriptions between stations covered by the current border area and the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg. By applying a uniform reduction, SNCB's explicit intention is to avoid any discrimination between travellers from different municipalities. SNCB reiterates that the introduction of a reduced tariff will inevitably result in a reduction in its income, estimated to date at EUR 253,000 in the event of a reduction of EUR 13.50 on all current home-working subscriptions. Of course, this amount will depend on actual sales. It is therefore through continued collaboration that SNCB and CFLs try to make the cross-border relationship more attractive in order to promote a modal shift from the car to the train.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic576x.u4	Minister, thank you. You didn't mention a station in particular. I therefore imply that it is the subscribers who would benefit.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic576x.u5	I've been talking about a uniform discount.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic576x.u6	It's not related to the stations? That's good news.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic576x.u7	Mr President, Minister, the government has decided to grant a budget of EUR 13.5 million to support security features on the SNCB network. This very important effort is part of the urgent need to protect railway infrastructure, as well as the population, from the terrorist threat that we have unfortunately faced in recent years. At the outset, I am pleased that the government has acted in practice within the framework of the counter-terrorism measures decided upon. However, I would like to take note of the allocation of these resources. That is why I would like to ask you the following questions. What are the main investment items selected for these large budget margins? Could you give us an outline? In addition to technological investments, what is planned in terms of reinforcements for human resources? Finally, what is the general schedule of operations that has been defined? Are some sites considered priorities over others? If so, which ones?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic576x.u8	Over the past few weeks, a lot of measures have been announced regarding safety in stations and trains. I'll run them over. First, SNCB will place 3 000 security camera dynamometers in the 445 new M7 double deck trains, which will be put into service between 2018 and 2021. They will film passengers permanently and transmit the images in real time to SNCB's central control centre. Secondly, Minister of the Interior Jan Jambon also wants to take the special security system at the airport in Zaventem to train stations. SNCB will check whether such smart camera dynamometers with facial recognition are useful. Your predecessor also reported this at the committee meeting of 2 March 2016. Thirdly, this year we will be investing EUR 13.5 million, on top of the overall safety envelope of EUR 400 million, for security measures in our stations. Part of the budget would go to the recruitment of 100 additional Securail agents, the rest would be invested in security infrastructure in stations such as Antwerp-Central, Brussels-South and Liège-Guillemins. In the Infrastructure Committee in May 2016, you said about Securail, I quote: "It is up to the government to consider a possible approximation between the services of Securail, which count 540 full-time equivalents, and the Railway Police. Before that, there should be consultation with all interested parties. I believe that Securail should maintain its link to the rail sector." Can you explain in detail the plans relating to the camera dynamometers? What is the planning for the installation of the camera dynamometers on new trains and additional camera dynamometers in stations and parkings? How many have already been installed? If possible, can you indicate the ten locations with the most cameras? What is the timing for investigating the use of smart cameras with facial recognition? Can you explain in detail what the budget earmarked for security measures in stations this year is being used for? Is there any decision on whether or not to integrate Securail agents into the Railway Police?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic576x.u9	Mr Minister, we have learned that the Council of Ministers has validated the granting of a supplementary allocation of EUR 13.5 million to SNCB in order to finance counter-terrorism measures, in particular for the security of railway stations. Can you give us more details about these new protective measures? Can you give us the details of the funding for these new measures? So what about the commitment of new Securail agents?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic576x.u10	Colleagues, this is the situation regarding investments to enhance safety on the SNCB network. Mrs Lahaye-Battheu and Messrs. Calomne and Devin report on the additional allocation to SNCB by the Council of Ministers to finance counter-terrorism protection measures. The press relayed an amount of EUR 13 500 000 where it previously quoted EUR 17 million. But this is still the same budget allocated to SNCB as part of the Canal Plan, in order to set up a control system for passengers using international routes. The difference is due to the fact that certain amounts take into account, not only the distribution between 2016 and 2017, but also the distribution between investment and recurrent costs. Specifically, the budget is based on an estimated investment expenditure of EUR 8.4 million in 2016 and EUR 6.9 million in 2017. A recurrent budget of €6.6 million per year is foreseen for personnel, maintenance, devices and cameras. What investments will be made with this endowment? At Brussels-Midi, Antwerp Central and Liège Guillemins international stations, as well as at Brussels Airport-Zaventerm station, safety features - including X-ray equipment and detection portals - will soon be put in place, following compliance with legal procurement procedures. In addition, the camera fleet is being expanded at these stations. At other stations, video surveillance is improved. A study on the use of smart cameras is currently under way. Given the strategic importance, the workshop and the Forest cluster will also be better protected. The government reached an agreement on this and Securail remains within SNCB. For more details, I would refer you to my reply to the written question No. 1941. One hundred additional full-time equivalents are recruited from Securail. They will be trained to use security devices but they can also be used throughout the SNCB and Infrabel domain. In this way, there are plans for an increased presence on railway stations and trains. Similarly, officers are trained to monitor video surveillance. With regard to the cameras at the stations and at the parkings, you can find the ten locations below with most cameras. In 2016, camera surveillance in the three international stations was improved. These yards will be completed during the first quarter of 2017. An upgrade of the cameras in the other stations is in full preparation and will be rolled out from the second quarter of 2017. In addition to these security investments, which have been made through complementary allocations, SNCB has provided for another measure. I can confirm that there will be cameras on the M7 trains that will be hired between the end of 2018 and 2021. Studies are currently being carried out on the installation of camera dynamometers in other rolling stock. At the moment there are only the cameras on the Desiro trains.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic576x.u11	Mr President, I thank the Minister for his answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic576x.u12	Mr President, I would like to thank the Minister for all the elements he has communicated to the committee today. I would just like a little clarification about the Council of Ministers because I misunderstood this piece of answer that you gave in Dutch. Are you going to present the draft to the Council of Ministers or has it already been decided by the Council of Ministers?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic576x.u13	That has already been decided.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic576x.u14	All right, thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic576x.u15	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. If I understand correctly, the investigation into the possibility and usefulness of the smart camera dynamometers with facial recognition is still ongoing. That was your predecessor's answer in March last year. What's your timing? We will have to come to a conclusion from that investigation. To the question about the ten locations with most cameras you have answered the list below. Will that list be issued?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic576x.u16	We lost some time in the procurement process because there was a concern within SNCB. To be correct and avoid any appeal, the procedure took a little longer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic576x.u17	Do we have a list of these ten stations?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic576x.u18	Yes, we'll give it to you. We can hand it over to the three parliamentarians who have asked questions about it.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic576x.u19	As the last word is for parliamentarians, I would like to welcome and thank the minister for his precision and his wish that it could be distributed to everyone. The fact that you made it clear what you were honouring, minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic576x.u20	Mr President, Minister, it has been several years since the issue of the dispersal of flights from Brussels-National Airport arose. Everyone is aware of this, it is a very complex issue and, obviously, the goodwill of all the actors involved is essential in order to find a lasting and balanced solution. It must, quite logically, take into account the right to tranquillity of all residents, be they Brussels, Flemish or Walloon, as well as the economic development of our national airport, which provides jobs and is a major driver of growth. We know that you are working on balanced solutions and we have every confidence in you to succeed. In this regard, it would appear that a new element has been taken into account. In fact, Belgocontrol is currently testing the application of airway management software, based on objective criteria including wind, meteorology, runway availability or the destination of the aircraft. This tool was originally developed for Amsterdam Airport in order to assist air traffic controllers in their choice. This software is now being used at Basel-Mulhouse-Fribourg Airport, also known as EuroAirport, which, in terms of geographical complexity, could be compared to our national airport. Indeed, situated in French territory but also on the Swiss and German borders, its nuisances affect not three Regions, but the territories of the three States. Since last September, this software has been tested by Belgocontrol. The criteria that will have to feed into its assessment will obviously have to take into account the complexity of our ground situation, in particular the use and equipment of three runways, two of which cross, but also specific data such as airport capacity, peak periods or night schedules. Following the efforts already made to find a balanced solution to the thorny issue, I would like to ask you the following questions. Can you provide us with an update on the situation with respect to this file? With regard to the software referred to, what exactly is foreseen at the level of the tests carried out at the present time and what are the conditions for its eventual final adoption? Finally, how will the final decision to implement this IT tool be taken?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic576x.u21	Mr President, Minister, Belgocontrol has indicated its intention to bring with it a new tool called the Runway Allocation Advisory System (RAAS). This tool should be used, in particular, to assist controllers and various stakeholders in deciding which runways to use at Brussels Airport when landing an aircraft. Minister, can you give us more information on this new tool? How will it help controllers define the best choice of leads to use? When will it be operational? What is the training schedule for Belgocontrol agents for this new tool?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic576x.u22	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in 2015 Belgocontrol was asked to acquire a system of decision support for the selection of runways in use at the Brussels-National airport and, as soon as I arrived, I myself insisted on speeding up the implementation of this new system. The advantages offered are, in addition to assisting the controllers in the selection of runways, greater transparency and better information to stakeholders on the deviations of the preferential runway system and the forecasts of runway use, particularly in relation to wind direction and strength. Indeed, with such a system, the automatic choice of tracks is based on the parameters of the tool and, of course, the controller can always intervene to modify the proposed track. And it's an obligation when security issues impose it. However, each change will have to be justified in relation to the system provided for in the software. This new system was deployed in the control tower at the end of September 2016 and underwent the required technical tests in December. He is now in the operational testing phase. This phase requires validation of the parameters that will be used in the system configuration. It is essential to ensure that the right parameters are chosen, particularly according to the PRS, PIAs, instructions, etc. It is only on this condition that this tool will help the controllers properly to objectiveise decisions taken in this technically and operationally complex and politically sensitive area and to bring clarity and serenity to this issue. In order to do this, I have instructed the Air Transport Directorate to validate the operational concept of equipment – the RAAS (Runway Awareness and Advisory System) – submitted to me by Belgocontrol, to ensure that the parameters governing the logic of the choice of runways of this tool comply with the instructions in force in this field, no more or less.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic576x.u23	Minister, thank you for your answer, which, as you said, deals with a matter that is not only politically sensitive, but also technically complex. The test that was done with this tool shows that it would enable a large part of the data to be objected to, and thus also help to find a solution in this issue that has been discussed for years or even decades. I will continue to follow the development of this issue, which we will probably still hear about.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic576x.u24	I thank the minister for his answer. This is an extremely important issue and we will all be called upon to discuss it together.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic576x.u25	Thank you, Mr President, and my fellow Members. I am expected in the Committee on Social Affairs, hence my wish to put my questions here in one movement, for which I am grateful. On the question of Infrabel's fraud management policy, I refer to the law of March 1991 on the reform of certain public economic enterprises. It provides that the Minister shall provide Parliament with annual documents, including the annual report of the Management Board to the general meeting of shareholders, the annual accounts and the report of the College of Commissioners on the annual accounts. The latest report, for the financial years 2014 and 2015, shows that Infrabel took steps to develop a fraud management policy. However, the College of Commissioners also considers that fraud risks should be further identified. It is also necessary to assess whether the existing procedures have been adapted to control the risk of fraud. I have the following questions. Firstly, what year has this recommendation been made in the College of Commissioners' report and what was the real reason for this? Secondly, what steps has Infrabel taken to comply with that recommendation and what concrete results has the College's recommendation led to? Finally, do you believe, Minister, that the current fraud management policy is sufficient to rule out fraud or are further steps necessary? If so, which one?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic576x.u26	The College of Commissioners stated in its report: "Since 2014, fraud has become an all the more important issue for the College of Commissioners following a legislative change. The old offices in Belgium have been obliged to apply the International Standard on Auditing (ISA) standard for all companies since the financial year 2014. Previously, this only applied to so-called public-interest entities, such as banks, insurers and listed companies. In the context of the ISA standards, the risk of fraud has gained in importance in the financial audit of the financial statements. Within Infrabel, a compliance officer is responsible for a preventive and reactive policy on fraud. Several measures have been introduced and strengthened to reduce fraud risks. Examples include internal control measures, double signature, delegation of powers and separation of functions. Creating a fraud risk matrix is a project that is ongoing within Infrabel. Infrabel points out that fraud can never be completely ruled out. The built-in control measures aim to avoid this as much as possible. The current fraud management is in line with the best practices in this area. There is no need for further steps in this regard. Infrabel attaches great importance to the ethical and integrity of his employees and therefore has a code of conduct for his employees. All new employees will be given the necessary explanation on their first working day. There is a fraud hotline, which is communicated to the employees via posters and webnews. Sensitisation of staff is a continuous process.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic576x.u27	Minister, it is clear when it was launched. You have also made it very clear what the reason was. I also understand, of course, that fraud can never be completely ruled out, but it is good that we continue to guard it. Last week's news, which I will return to in my next question, indicates that we must not allow ourselves to cradle to sleep in that respect. We must ensure, especially in these tight budgetary times, that the taxpayers' money ends up where it belongs. This has not always been the case in the past. Look at the story of Eurostation last week. I also asked you in plenary to take the ambition, together with my fellow Members, to get rid of such practices, to prevent such fraud and to severely punish them.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic576x.u28	Mr Minister, I would just like to refer to the judicial investigation, which has just been mentioned, namely the investigation into fraud, corruption and bribery by the real estate subsidiary Eurostation. As we all know in the meantime, this investigation has been carried out following two audits which revealed a number of malpractices. This raises, at least with me, the question of whether other subsidiaries of Infrabel or SNCB have also been the subject of unlawful acts. On Thursday, during Question Time in plenary, I asked you whether you were prepared to ask the other subsidiaries of SNCB and Infrabel to have them examined. The answer you gave me at the time was that any audit or analysis by the Court of Auditors will be subject to such willing cooperation. However, you did not reply entirely to my question, which I am therefore happy to ask again today. Mr Minister, are you or are you not prepared to ask the CEOs of SNCB and Infrabel to have an audit carried out at each of their subsidiaries? Why or why not?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic576x.u29	Ladies and gentlemen, if behind your question on the conduct of an audit in each subsidiary lies the intention to improve the control of the CT subsidiaries of SNCB and Infrabel, then I fully share that objective. However, in addition to setting an objective, each approach should also define the most appropriate means of achieving the objective. The means used to achieve an objective (...) must be proportionate to that objective and must not lead to the destruction of an authority but to its improvement. In concrete terms, I will divide my answer into four points. Firstly, I repeat that in this legislative period an objective was adopted to reduce the number of subsidiaries. It's being carried out. For example, between 2014 and 2 January 2017, the number of subsidiaries was reduced from 38 to 29 at SNCB and from 23 to 17 at Infrabel. Secondly, I repeat that the existence of a normative framework is an important element in the control of a subsidiary. That framework lays down the guidelines to be complied with. Both SNCB and Infrabel have set such a framework. As regards SNCB, this framework was supplemented by the findings of the audit carried out by the subsidiary Eurostation and Euroguards. I believe that this framework has already been explained to the members of the committee in response to parliamentary questions. It may only be applied in the subsidiary where the railway undertaking is the main shareholder. For the other subsidiaries the agreement of the other shareholders is required. Improving the legislative framework is also an important step in this legislative process. Thirdly, it is important that the directives are updated at regular intervals on the basis of any findings, but also that they are reported to the management board of the parent company. I will ensure that existing annual reporting, in addition to the financial aspects, does indeed deal with compliance with the governance rules. Finally, it seems disproportionate to me to want to audit all subsidiaries, because the configuration endpoints of shareholdership or activities are not at all the same for all companies. In terms of shareholdership, a distinction must be made between the subsidiary where the railway undertaking is a minority, only 50% occupied, and that where it is a main shareholder. In terms of activities, a distinction should be made between the subsidiaries that are purely financial in nature and were set up to implement projects and therefore require sophisticated financing formulas, as well as the subsidiaries that have an operational activity. Therefore, rather than asking for an audit from any subsidiary, it seems useful to provide for a regular audit in addition to what I have already mentioned. This audit shall be carried out according to a realistic and feasible schedule of each subsidiary where the railway undertaking holds more than 50% of the capital and has an operational activity. The information I receive from both companies indicates that this approach is already being applied at the level of their respective internal audit services. If you have any information that would suggest that governance is not respected in one or more of the subsidiaries of SNCB or of Infrabel, I am of course at your disposal to pass this on to the CEO and to the chairman of the audit committee of the parent companies concerned.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic576x.u30	Minister, I am pleased with your detailed answer, it was a clear answer to the question I asked. I am not going to repeat, one step at a time, what you have said to me. Your answer is clear: steps have been taken, you have taken initiatives to combat this potential fraud. It is an important item and an important responsibility of you as a guardian minister to continue to follow that up. Perhaps we should all step up our efforts, because we really need to get rid of the malpractices that have occurred in the past. The story of Eurostation, a daughter of SNCB, is rather degout. Once again, I did so on Thursday, making a bridge to the train disaster in Saint-Georges. Questions can also be asked about the way in which TUC RAIL, a daughter of Infrabel, is tendered. People are awake about that, it's about taxpayers' money, like I said earlier. Once again, Minister, I am satisfied with your answer. Together, we must focus on this problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic576x.u31	Mr Minister, on 1 January a collision between two planes was narrowly avoided over East Flanders. An Egyptian cargo aircraft, which had taken off at Ostend airport, came at high altitudes dangerously close to a passenger plane from Air France, which was on its way from Paris to Amsterdam. The first data shows, at least according to the media, that the Egyptian aircraft would have ignored air traffic control instructions up to three times. The Egyptian crew also ignored the TCAS warning system that came into operation to point out to them the approaching French aircraft. Luckily, it didn't come to a collision. While in airspace a catastrophe was avoided, however, there was no dirt on the ground. Neither the governor of East Flanders nor the mayors of the cities concerned were responsible for the emergency planning of what was happening above their heads. The Air Accident Investigation Unit of the FPS Mobility would have started an investigation by now. I have the following questions. Can you explain more about the incident that took place over East Flanders on 1 January? Have measures already been taken against the Egyptian airline on the basis of the initial findings? What are these measures? How do you intend to avoid such incidents in the future? Is there an emergency procedure whereby local authorities, police and fire brigades, etc. are also informed when an incident is imminent in their airspace? If yes, why were the local authorities not notified on 1 January? If not, will you, in consultation with the Minister for the Interior, take the necessary steps to develop such an emergency procedure?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic576x.u32	Dear colleague, we have heard, like you, that a serious incident occurred on 1 January 2017 above the region of Ghent. Two aircraft have crossed each other, without complying with the regulatory separation distances, neither in width (nine kilometres) nor in height (1 000 feet). As with any aviation incident, and in accordance with the applicable rules, the investigation cell, namely the AAIU (Air Accident Investigation Unit), was entrusted with an investigation. That cell is investigating the circumstances and events that led to the incident. I do not want to interfere in the ongoing work, so as not to reveal information whose accuracy cannot be guaranteed today. I would therefore ask you to await the end of that investigation and then take note of its conclusions. Since the investigation is ongoing and its conclusions are still awaited, no preventive action has yet been taken against the Egyptian airline. The Belgian Air Accident Investigation Unit has contacted all national authorities and actors involved in the incident in order to collect the relevant information for a proper understanding of what has happened. Any recommendations and measures will be determined at the end of the investigation. Emergency plans shall be declared only in the event of an accident. A change of legislation in this area is not currently envisaged.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic576x.u33	Thank you for your reply, Minister. I am, of course, prepared to await the results of the investigation. Can you give me a timing? When can we expect these results?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic576x.u34	I don't know. We have contacted a number of national airlines in Egypt. An investigation was also carried out there. However, it is impossible for me to give a date.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic576x.u35	Then it's hard for me to ask a follow-up question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic576x.u36	The same was true for the incident of 5 October. We do not have a date for this either.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic576x.u37	I'll ask you the question regularly. Well, you'll have to say that the investigation is still ongoing. I do have two comments to make. I do not think it is about nine kilometres; they have crossed vertically at a distance of ninety meters. You said in your answer nine kilometres, but according to the information I have, it is 90 metres, 300 feet.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic576x.u38	Nine kilometers in width, and 1 000 feet in height.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic576x.u39	Horizontal 1 370 meters and vertical 90 meters. It's in different... Nine kilometers seems to me a reasonable distance between the two.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic576x.u40	In distance, it is 9 kilometers and in height more or less 300 meters.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic576x.u41	Okay, then the information I have is wrong. However, I have checked all the articles quickly and deredactie.be talks about 91 meters and in the two newspaper articles it is also 90 meters each time. Maybe their information is wrong.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic576x.u42	I'll give you the exact information.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic576x.u43	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic576x.u44	That's what they say, right here in the answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic576x.u45	Of course, they know best.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic576x.u46	Nine kilometers in width and 1 000 feet in height.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic576x.u47	Okay.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic576x.u48	This will undoubtedly be continued.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic576x.u49	Question No 14901 by Mrs Cassart-Mailleux is transformed into a written question. Question No 15939 by Mrs Jadin is postponed. Questions Nos. 15958 and 15959 by Mr.Foret are transformed into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic576x.u50	Mr. President, Minister, the SPF Mobility and Transport was responsible for piloting a study on the implementation of the ETCS master plan, through a framework contract with a consultant. On March 2, 2016, I asked Minister Galant, who preceded you at the head of the Department of Mobility, to have the results of this study available. She replied: "I have asked my administration for additional information on intermediate conclusions, but these are not yet available." As far as I know, this study has not yet been disseminated and its conclusions are not yet known. I hope this study is now over. Intermediate results must therefore now be available. So I'm coming back to you. What is the status of this study? What are the conclusions, including intermediate ones, at this stage? When will it be available and distributed to the Commission?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic576x.u51	Mr President, my colleague, the Mobility FPS has been responsible for monitoring rail investments in the ETCS masterplan. This is a framework contract with a consultant that runs for several years. The study is therefore not closed. The interim reports have identified risks that need to be managed by Infrabel and SNCB to ensure effective and timely implementation. Through this study and internal research by Infrabel, steps have been taken to improve deployment and meet deadlines. In the meantime, the study has shifted in line with its terms of reference towards a holistic follow-up of implementation for the entire government-funded programme, keeping an eye on the effects for private companies. I propose to forward the intermediate outcome of the first phase of the study to the members of the Committee on Infrastructure at the end of February. But given the daily changes and mitigation measures put in place in the meantime on the ground, they will not, by definition, be up-to-date. What I'll pass on to you is a study at a given moment. But as things have evolved in the meantime, you will receive the intermediate result of a study which, in fact, will be slightly overtaken. This will depend on when I am told that the study is valid. I propose to send it to you at the end of February as the services of the SPF have committed themselves to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic576x.u52	Mr President, I thank the minister for his answer. I think I understand that. This study, which was initially part of a framework contract with a consultant, and which was of scope X, evolved during the course of the work towards a follow-up of the concrete implementation and depending on the returns from the field. I look forward to the end of February to see the results of this intermediate survey. I understand the specific conditions set by the minister and thank him for that. Mr President, I am counting on you to ensure that this interim study is well received by you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic576x.u53	Minister, I was asking you here a few weeks ago about the future of the Tubize station. Whether it is the poorly distributed cadences, the condition of the station, the parking lot, the lack of trains, the commercial speed and, especially at this time, punctuality, it seems that the definitive figures for 2016 are not brilliant. More generally, all indicators are red. The commuters in the Tubize area were already out of breath. At the time, I insisted on the deplorable level of service of this station, which is still central in a living area which is not well served by public transport and which is expected to see its population grow quite strongly in the coming years. Yet, Minister, beyond this already unsatisfactory state, a further blow could be made to the Tubize rail users. Indeed, the press reported some time ago the announced closure of the station's counters, at least for a large part of the day. If this information is confirmed, it seems unacceptable to me. We had a debate in this committee last week, I think, on a resolution by the N-VA on an alternative to ticket sales counters. I explained how perverse it was to consider that it was no longer for the public service to sell tickets to take the train in the station's own counters. I have here the explanation and the demonstration. Since 2013, 33 windows have already been closed in Walloon stations. This is less service for users: difficulty of renewal of subscriptions, more search for the best price, insecurity, and probably soon, pure and simple closure of the waiting room. With this measure, combined with problems related to automation failures and the automatic application of the new on-board fare, one wonders whether SNCB is simply not trying to drive passengers away. As the population of western Walloon Brabant explodes, the Tubize station already drains more passengers than those of Dinant, Deinze, Schaerbeek, and as much as that of Arlon! Its many travellers deserve a leading station, with a level of service to the height. Which is far from the case today. Minister, this is a very simple question, do you confirm this closure by the SNCB, at certain times, of the Tubize station counter? What other stations are at risk of a window closure in the next two years?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic576x.u54	Mr President, Minister, like my colleague, at the same time, shortly before the holidays, I asked you about the Tubize station and the services offered to users. In my last speech, I expressed my concern about the lack of supply in the face of the continuing increase in the number of users, which my colleague has also just mentioned. You were reassuring enough that you were going to do everything possible to improve the services offered to travellers. We were glad to hear that. Unfortunately, at the beginning of the year we were very quick to disappoint. Indeed, the first step to improve the services offered is to close the windows of this Tubize station. Minister, do you confirm this information? If so, it's really something regrettable. This is not annoyance, since 3,500 passengers take the train to Tubize on a daily basis. It is therefore not a second area station. Mr Minister, my question is therefore the same as that of my colleague. Do you confirm this closure? Can you communicate to us the motivations that prompted you, which prompted the services to make this choice?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic576x.u55	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to point out that this is an autonomous public undertaking and not a state service. Therefore, it is not the Minister who decides to open or close windows. Things need to be clear. The full closure of the Tubize station's ticket office is not planned. SNCB informs me that it has declared a moratorium until 2020 with regard to the complete closure of ticket office functions at railway stations. The SNCB states, however, that it changes the opening hours of several stations each year if sales volumes and the activity rates of the windows have decreased to such an extent that service provision is no longer justifiable. Each proposal to adapt the opening hours must be evaluated not only from the perspective of the station concerned, but also from a broader geographical perspective: Regions, provinces, potential, railway lines, etc. I recently reminded SNCB that any reduction in the opening hours of a window could only be achieved if a solution had been found to ensure access to the waiting room and after informing the municipal authorities. This will also be reflected in the future management contract. In addition, I have asked SNCB to consider revising the opening hours of the windows, on an annual basis and on a case-by-case basis, or at the request of SNCB services throughout the year.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic576x.u56	I thank the minister. First of all, point zero for its reminder of what an autonomous public enterprise is. It's always good to hear things, even when you know them. Point one: I keep talking about the management contract, but since it does not come, we have to ask you questions. So we allowed ourselves to do it. By your answer, I understood that you were in contact with the SNCB, that I cannot question directly, although I would like to do so: to receive Mrs Dutordoir would be a real happiness. But in the meantime, I take note of your answer, and I understand that you have spoken of "complete closure that would not take place", which means that incomplete closures will take place. That's how I understand what you're saying. I have a little peasant spirit, a little simple. Point two: I have nevertheless noted your opening regarding a smarter and more annual account. But if we want to achieve real proactive and dynamic work in terms of public transport, it must be multi-annual. We've got a life pool. I do not know the future of Tubize, but like my colleague, I hope that the future of this region will be better. This region of Walloon Brabant has been affected: the forges of Clabecq, industrial problems, employment problems, etc. But we are in an attempt to create a new dynamic, and we are waiting. Indeed, the demographic figures announced in this region, Minister, as we can tell the SNCB, are important. The population is growing. The situation should not be frozen according to the number of current users. On a day-to-day or month-to-month basis, or even on a year-to-day basis, the attractiveness that public transit should have in an area, Minister, which is also oriented towards Brussels, is to be taken into account. I am not going to say that again here, but we know how traffic congestion and road traffic have ceased to be an alternative today. The solution passes through the structuring public transport system which is SNCB. We have Tubize station. On the basis of current figures, but above all those expected, the trend is positive. It seems to us important to take this into account before making counterproductive decisions that divert people from the train and make mobility even more immobile.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic576x.u57	Mr President, I thank the Minister for his answer. Several things in this one: the first one, I take note of it, is not a complete closure – that I had already understood from the information I had; the second is that it means a partial closure. This means, a contrario, an opening that can vary from one hour to a few hours. We have no information on this. You say that this partial closure must be made under two conditions: that access to the waiting room be guaranteed and that the College be informed. To know the mayor of Tubize, I can tell you that no information meeting was held with the municipal authorities. It should not be forgotten that SNCB is primarily a public service. It's not just the issue of tickets. I would point out incidentally that 400 out of 3,500 people buy daily at the Tubize station. It's not annoyance. Among the public service roles that SNCB must meet, information is also sometimes useful and necessary. I, like my colleague on the future development of the Tubize railway station, insist that this decision be reconsidered and that the windows remain open at all times, as before.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic576x.u58	Question No 15984 by Mrs Heeren is transformed into a written question. Similarly, in the case of Question No 16035 by Mr Maingain, Question No 16038 by Mr Maingain. Van Hees and Question No 16043 by Mr Gilkinet. Joined Questions No 16075 by Mrs Cassart and No 16106 by Mr Delors. Van den Bergh are also transformed into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic576x.u59	Mr. President, Minister, more and more delivery companies are developing, particularly in the area of catering, thanks in particular to the significant potential of the collaborative economy. In many cases, these deliveries are made by bicycle couriers. In this regard, it would appear that not all cyclists are housed in the same sign in terms of safety. Indeed, it has come back to us that some delivery companies would not supply any equipment, with the exception of a transport bag. They must then carry out their shopping with the equipment at their disposal. However, several cases of absence of helmets and retro-reflectors, or even of over-used tyres, have been found in the field. As a result, the safety of these workers does not always seem to be optimal. That is why I would nevertheless like to ask you the following questions. What normative framework is in place to ensure the safety of couriers? To your knowledge, to what extent are these rules respected in our country? What about the checks carried out on this subject? How many violations were found in 2015 and 2016? Do you intend to take steps to improve the safety of these couriers and thus to strengthen the safety of users on the public highway? Have there been any contacts between your services and those in charge of the Labour Inspectorate with a view to developing information and awareness programmes for these companies, as well as couriers? In this context, what is the state of synergy with your colleague in charge of employment?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic576x.u60	Mr Calomne, on the basis of a simple question, you will receive a complex answer under the number of ministers concerned. The traffic of cyclists is governed by the rules of the Road Code. More specifically, article 82 of the Road Traffic Code specifically lists the rules on equipment. One, the retro-reflectors, two, the tires, three, the sound warnings and, four, the brakes that improve the safety of this type of user. As you know, wearing the helmet should be reflective but not mandatory for all cyclists, although this is highly recommended, especially for younger users. The example you mention concerns the safety of workers, a matter which falls within the competence of Mr Kris Peeters, Minister for Employment, the Economy and Consumers. I cannot provide you with figures on offences committed during bicycle deliveries. I would also like to remind you that the approval of vehicles and their re-equipment, as well as road safety awareness and prevention, are essentially the responsibility of the Regions. So we're not going to make it a dish - that's the case for a meal delivery! - but it has become an extremely complex subject, as you can see. Indeed, it affects both the well-being at work, the safety and the certification of equipment. It is true that sometimes we see bicycles or mopeds that have been transformed to ensure distribution, but the licensing rules are an allocation of the Regions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic576x.u61	Minister, thank you for your response, which I had somewhat anticipated. That is why I also addressed it to Mr Peeters for the Workers section. I have no doubt that one of my counterparts in the Walloon or Brussels Parliament will relay this concern for the aspects that fall to the Regions. As you have said, this subject is complex, particularly in terms of the distribution of competences. Nevertheless, it poses a number of practical problems for these people. It therefore seems to me important to protect them. We will therefore continue the process in order to obtain as complete a response as possible in this regard.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic576x.u62	Mr Gilkinet informed me that he could not be present.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic576x.u63	Mr. Chairman, SNCB wishes to operate trains without an attendant. Only the conductor of the train would be present on board. The unconvinced objective of this project is to save €28 million on the company's annual payroll. Minister, can you give us more information about this project? How many trains would be involved? In addition, train attendants are not just ticket controllers. Guarantees of punctuality, they also secure the commuters by their mere presence. What is your position on this issue regarding the safety and non-accompaniment of train users?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic576x.u64	Mr President, my colleague, the project is in the process of being studied. SNCB informs me that no pilot line has yet been selected. The project is part of the government's desire to allow SNCB to remain the historic contractor for public service missions beyond 2030, and I keep repeating that. This requires a high level of performance and service quality. I invite you to read about the latest edition of Economic Insights in December 2016, which obliges us to take action. The one-man study was transparently communicated to the organizations representing the staff. They will be involved through working groups during a possible implementation of the project. The scope of the project is not yet fixed. The SNCB notes, however, that omnibus trains with relatively low occupancy are the most suitable ones. Another possibility is its partial or total application in suburban traffic around major cities such as Brussels, Antwerp, Ghent, Liège and Charleroi. What is being done for STIB, De Lijn and TECs could apply to SNCB. In the event of application of this project on low-speed lines, as well as in suburban traffic for the above-mentioned cities, the decrease in operating costs is provisionally estimated by SNCB at approximately EUR 25 million. Technical means (cameras, adapted equipment, new means of communication) and appropriate procedures must ensure a high level of security, which does not mean a degraded level of security. Before carrying out this project, in-depth risk analyses must be carried out not only in terms of punctuality but also particularly in terms of societal security and operational safety. This is, of course, one of the conditions for obtaining the agreement of the SSICF security authority, which, I would remind you, is not the responsibility of the Minister of Mobility. If the project is completed, its deployment would be phased over several years, depending on the scope of application and on all security-related obligations.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic576x.u65	Minister, thank you for the state of affairs. I understand that the implementation of this project is not yet due tomorrow. I have not been able to read Economic Perspectives but I feed on my own experience. Lille, an RER without an attendant, without even a driver, I take it with my cousin. A technical problem arises and we find ourselves in a crowded row, in the dark, without an attendant. It took 50 minutes to see staff, ambulances, firefighters arrive because when there is no one around, a feeling of panic is invading the users. I don't do catastrophism, I tell you about a personal experience. When everything's all right, there's never a problem. It's when there's a problem, you just need a companion.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic576x.u66	I propose to turn my question No. 16107 into a written question. Question No 16108 is also transformed into a written question. We turn now to Question No 16111 by Mr Devin on "sexual violence in trains".
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic576x.u67	Mr President, in the positive spirit which inspires me and for the smooth running of the proceedings, I propose that Mrs De Coninck put her question and that we then move on to the joint questions of Mrs De Coninck and myself so that we can thus free our colleague. I will then conclude with the Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic576x.u68	Thank you very much, Mr Devin. That's very kind of you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic576x.u69	Infrabel today still provides a great deal of service to SNCB in the field of computer science. This was arranged in such a way when the farms were split up. On the one hand, Infrabel no longer sees this as his core task, which I think is right, and therefore wants to reduce those activities. On the other hand, SNCB wants to be independent in the field of computer science for its strategic activities. In order to achieve these objectives, an IT roadmap was agreed between the two companies. The document describes the arrangements between the two companies to manage the transition. However, this transition is anything but smooth. SNCB has a strong impression that Infrabel neglects its IT services vis-à-vis SNCB. Some of Infrabel's hardware infrastructure would no longer benefit from support from the supplier, as it is outdated. This is, of course, an enormous risk to SNCB's public services. How do SNCB and Infrabel assess the progress of the IT roadmap programme, respectively? Is that in line with the timetable set? What are the possible problems in cooperation? What recommendations did SNCB make to your cabinet regarding the progress of the IT roadmap? Which parts are still to be transferred? Which IT hardware of Infrabel and SNCB no longer has support from the supplier? What risks does the lack of support for the strategic activities of the two companies create?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic576x.u70	Important steps have already been taken in the IT roadmap programme. For example, SNCB no longer uses Infrabel for the purchase and installation of PCs and laptops. The management of mobile phones and associated contracts for consumption are also handled by SNCB itself. The development of new software is already entirely in the hands of SNCB. For the more business-critical activities, e.g. the exploitation of IT applications, the IT roadmap is not sufficiently realistic. During the transition, the continuity of such activities must be ensured. After all, it is unacceptable that significant IT applications of SNCB would suffer from a hasty transfer. Infrabel and SNCB are currently working on a more realistic IT roadmap. That roadmap will be ready by the end of February 2017. SNCB also stresses that the problem concerns relations with suppliers and the transfer of knowledge from existing systems. SNCB has already indicated that a number of systems still need to be transferred. Transferring the mail system will be one of the first steps. For the other services, Infrabel will look at SNCB's new plan and contribute to its implementation in the most constructive way. In close consultation with SNCB, the initiatives needed to ensure the best possible continuity of hardware, which is no longer supported by the supplier, were examined. In the newly established roadmap, SNCB indicates its intention to give priority to the continuity of the legation system in order to eliminate the risk mismatches as quickly as possible. This means in particular that the legation system is replaced by modern software.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic576x.u71	Mr Minister, I will certainly read your answer again, but I remember that both companies are fully engaged in the transfer and are prepared to ensure continuity. That's essential. We have always regretted the incomplete division into two railway companies. Perhaps it would have been better if things had been more clearly regulated at the time of the split. We would not now have had to deal with the problems mentioned. For example, I do have questions about the fact that SNCB's mail systems are still at Infrabel, since there is commercial data at a company, which should not really have a view on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic576x.u72	Like Mrs De Coninck, I'm wondering about minimum service, minister. You know that.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic576x.u73	With the same conclusion?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic576x.u74	You always know where you're going, you never know where you're coming from. As of 1 January 2017, a legislative initiative would be launched to set up the guaranteed service in the event of a strike at SNCB. It's not in Economic Perspectives but as I know you're asking us to read the press, I'm doing it, we've learned it in the press.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic576x.u75	We're off on January 1st.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic576x.u76	You may not be the mayors.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic576x.u77	I think I'm a little too.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic576x.u78	Minister, can you give us more information on this legislative initiative? Can you provide us with guidelines for the minimum service you are considering?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic576x.u79	Mr President, Minister, your predecessor set the deadline in December 2015 and you moved it to the end of 2016. In the plenary session of 15 December 2016, you said: "The guaranteed service is essential to ensure a reliable alternative to transport." You indicated that you would soon take a legislative initiative. In this committee we saw the four scenarios in which SNCB confirmed that operating safety would be guaranteed when it rolled out. If not, the train wouldn't leave. The right to strike also had to be respected; all employees were given the individual freedom to decide whether to strike or not. As far as we are concerned, there is no reason to doubt any longer and action must be taken. When did you order the bill to be written? Are you basing yourself on the four scenarios as we discussed them in committee and as they were designed by the companies themselves? What should the guaranteed service look like? When do you intend to submit the draft law to Parliament?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic576x.u80	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out that every rail strike is an action of workers against other workers. This must be borne in mind because this justifies the successful establishment of a guaranteed service to protect workers, while respecting the right to strike, which is an individual right. I am a strong advocate of social dialogue within companies. When this dialogue has had more than two years to find a solution and has not succeeded, we must take responsibility. That's what I committed myself to. I never hid my intentions from you or the unions. In this context, I have already indicated that I am preparing a legislative initiative on the provision of services. Since HR Rail informed me at the end of December 2016 that the social dialogue in this area has not produced results, I felt free to give concrete details of what was agreed in the coalition agreement. It is important to achieve this service in accordance with the freedom to strike available to every worker. My roadmap will be guided by the defense of those who want to work. The feasibility and desirability of the scenarios described and explained in this committee will be addressed in my research. This bill will come in the course of 2017.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic576x.u81	Minister, thank you for your answers. It was expected from January 1, 2017 but today I learn that it will be in the course of 2017. Will it be for winter, spring, summer, autumn? I am curious to discover this work, its practical realization. In theory, it is possible, but in practice, we will be accountable for what has been done. We'll see what happens.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic576x.u82	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. You end by saying that you are working on a bill and that it will be submitted this year. So we have no idea when. As you know, our patience is long gone. We have long concluded that the trade unions themselves have blown up the social dialogue. It's a good thing HR Rail is officially confirming that as well. We need action now. I hope we are no longer faced with strikes. We submitted our proposal a long time ago and we have seen that the management agreement at the Flemish level for De Lijn has solved it. We will take initiatives if necessary. If the management agreement is discussed, we will certainly propose the idea of De Lijn in this House too, so that the traveller is not in the cold on a strike day. At least that's better than what's going on right now.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic576x.u83	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Lalieux's 15894 will be converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic576x.u84	Mr President, Minister, during the first six months of 2016, 103 incidents of sexual violence in public transport were the subject of a complaint to the police. How many acts of sexual violence have been recorded at SNCB throughout 2016? What measures are in place to combat these acts of violence? Do you see an increase in such violence on trains in recent years or in the past year?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic576x.u85	Colleague, SNCB does not have figures for complaints of sexual assault in its infrastructure. I would refer you to my colleagues in the interior and in the justice system to obtain this data, since it is under the jurisdiction of the judiciary. On the other hand, I can tell you that 143 calls arrived at the Security Operations Center (SOC) in 2016 for acts of morality, generally, in trains and stations. It should be recalled that SOC received a total of 81,823 calls in 2016. The measures put in place by SNCB's Corporate Security Services are the same as those related to violence in general, with the problem of assault being a top priority for SNCB. SNCB's Anti-Aggression Masterplan contains about 50 measures to limit acts of aggression. Securail's safety service, for example, reinforces its presence on the first and last trains as well as on at-risk trains. The emergency number 0800 is also displayed in the railway infrastructure in order to allow the security and police services to intervene as soon as possible. SNCB's new trains are equipped with surveillance camera systems to deter attackers and to facilitate repression. However, I would like to emphasize that the suppression of attacks remains primarily a matter for the police. This is why SNCB hopes that it will be able to further develop its collaboration with the police services in 2017, in particular through the declarations of intent it proposes to sign with local partners. Indeed, based on the number of calls to the Security Operation Center, there is indeed a relatively large increase in moral events between 2015 and 2016. The figures for recent years are as follows: 2013, 131 facts; 2014, 125 facts; 2015, 101 facts; 2016, 143 facts. These are the indications I could give you, Mr Devin.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic576x.u86	Minister, thank you for that clarification.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic576x.u87	Mr President, Minister, the rating agency Standard & Poor's recently degraded the long-term financial rating granted to SNCB, from A+ to A. The latter justifies this deterioration by the high level of debt of the Belgian railway company (more than 3 billion euros), as well as by the generation of a negative cash flow. The Agency could further degrade SNCB's rating by several steps if Belgian State support for SNCB decreased. Minister, what do you intend to put in place in the short and long term to restore confidence in SNCB to credit rating agencies and therefore to investors?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic576x.u88	My colleague, without wishing to question the role and seriousness of credit rating agencies, I, as a member of the former 2008-2009 Financial Crisis Committee, would like to recall that in the context of the banking crisis, there have been voices to question the relevance of the existing rating mechanism. In the case before us, namely the assessment of SNCB, I would like to put your question into perspective when you talk about the "trust of rating agencies". Indeed, the degradation relates to one of the two financial notes of one of the two rating agencies. Thus, on 22 November 2016, Moody's confirmed the long-term rating of the SNCB of A1, the short-term rating of P-1. On 19 December 2016, the rating agency Standard & Poor's degraded the SNCB's long-term financial rating of A+ with a negative outlook since 29 November 2011 to A with a stable outlook and confirmed the short-term financial rating A-1. The commercial paper issues made by the company since the deterioration of the note show that investors still have confidence in SNCB, since currently, the issues are at a negative rate. So SNCB borrows at negative rates. It is true that Standard & Poor's mentions that a degradation of one or more cracks could occur if changes were made in the legislative framework of SNCB or in the level of Belgian State support. However, Standard & Poor's considers this to be unlikely. The minister I am tells you, too. I can confirm that the State does not intend to review the legislative framework of SNCB, including ownership, nor to reduce its support for SNCB, and that the management contract setting out the allocations is being finalized. Pending the signing of this management contract, the distribution of the allocations between Infrabel and SNCB for the period 2016-2020 was published by royal decree on 6 January 2017. Moreover, the measures taken to improve the productivity of the economies allow for the future, from the point of view of the business plan and the investment plan, first a positive evolution of the EBITDA and second, a stabilisation of the debt in 2018, thanks to the generation of a positive cash flow covering interest charges from 2018. These elements are likely to enhance investor confidence in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic576x.u89	I take note of the Minister's statements and his forecasts, which will have to be faced with reality.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic576x.u90	Mr.Minister, at the end of December, we learned that the Board of Directors of SNCB had approved a new transportation plan that will increase the offer of the public railway undertaking by 3.9 million train kilometres from the current transportation plan as of December 2017. Minister, can you give us more details about this increase in train supply? What will be the main investments in this new transportation plan? Are there any changes in frequency and hourly amplitude on lines 96 (Mons-Bruxelles) and 108 (Binche-Turnhout)? If so, what are these changes?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic576x.u91	Dear colleague, SNCB informs me that for the preparation of its 2017 transport plan, it focuses on three areas of development. In addition to the quantitative extension of the transport offer through the addition of new trains (an increase of 5% in train-kilometres - I invite you to consider what happened 20 years ago, during each of the transport plans to check if it was more or less), it also aims at a qualitative improvement of its transport plan by increasing as much as possible the commercial speed of its most frequented relations - on average, a decrease of 3% of the journey times - and ensures the development of train-train and bus-train connections. The Board of Directors of SNCB validated the 2017 transport plan on December 23, 2016. The plan was designed for the first time in full consultation with regional transport companies and the User Advisory Committee. Currently, precise schedules are being analysed, in collaboration with regional public transport companies. The SNCB plans roadshows in the spring of 2017, in order to communicate in detail, the next changes to its offer in terms of volume, commercial speed, correspondence and amplitude. Mr Devin, as a Member of Parliament, as a mayor, you will of course be cordially invited to attend. You will therefore be aware of all the changes that have been made. I also observed that one of your colleagues said, "Minister Bellot added trains to my area." But it is not the minister who adds the trains, it is the SNCB.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic576x.u92	Mr Minister, in my capacity as a Member of Parliament, I was thinking that you would be able to announce in committee, in Parliament, what was the situation. Since it came out of the board, I thought you could announce things today. If you give me an appointment at the roadshow to learn things, I will come but I sincerely thought that I could have information today in relation to these two lines. I didn't think it was a state secret.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic576x.u93	This is not a state secret, but you will see the details of the offer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic576x.u94	Is there a change in frequency and hourly amplitude on these two lines? I sincerely thought I would get an answer today. I'm disappointed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic576x.u95	Mr President, I didn't have any luck with the local lines, I'm going to try with the stranger. Sometimes there are things that are misunderstood in his region, and better at the international level. Minister, a few months ago, I asked you about the establishment of direct links between major cities. Indeed, you announced the creation of new rail links between Brussels, Luxembourg, Strasbourg and Zurich. Can you give us more information about these line creations? What is the status of discussions with neighbouring countries' railways? What are the budgetary means put on the table for the establishment of these international lines?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic576x.u96	Dear colleague, since 1987, two EuroCity trains known as Vauban and Iris have been linked daily to Brussels and Basel, serving notably Namur, Luxembourg, Metz, Strasbourg, Colmar and Mulhouse. These two routes, which were the result of a collaboration between SNCB, CFL, SNCF and SBB, ceased to be carried out on 3 April 2016 despite the willingness of SNCB and CFLs to maintain a direct train offer to Switzerland. I have always been a defender of this maintenance, and often very alone in this fight, Mr Devin, I took my pilgrim's staff and asked for a meeting with my Swiss, French and Luxembourg colleagues to find an international link as soon as possible. In this context, I met with my Swiss counterpart Mrs Doris Leuthard on 24 November 2016 to formally discuss rail links between our countries. I also had the opportunity to hold an in-depth exchange of views with the French Secretary of State for Transport, Mr Alain Vidalies, on the margins of the European Transport Council on 1 December 2016. On the basis of all these elements, I will request the establishment of a working group between operators to update the economic analysis dossier of this Brussels-Zurich link project. To travel to Switzerland, the Belgian traveller currently has several possibilities which involve correspondence to Paris, Cologne, or Luxembourg. Regardless of the economic aspect, the return of an international link to Luxembourg and Switzerland will only be possible after the completion of the work on the modernisation of axis 3 and therefore does not fit with the transport plan 2017, since the work on axis 3 is to be completed by 2022. You can imagine that I regret it, Mr Devin.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic576x.u97	How to join Switzerland to build the Brussels-Luxembourg link? It's beautiful.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic576x.u98	There's a little Switzerland in Belgium, you know. Trains are already passing. But we want to go to Greater Switzerland. It is not for the pleasure of going to Switzerland, but for the major Brussels-Luxembourg-Strasbourg-Bâle link.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic576x.u99	Minister, I have some ideas. We're building lines to Switzerland. You're telling me about France. Now we're going to talk about Thalys Wallon. The federal government and the management of SNCB suspended two lines of the Thalys in Belgium, including the line linking Liège to Paris along the Walloon dorsal, serving Namur, Charleroi and Mons. Of course, it is not Luxembourg; it is not nothing either. The reason for this was, among other things, the construction of security and road improvements, so that the Thalys Walloon was rendered inoperative for several months. Minister, can you give us more information on the current situation? Now that development and security work have come to an end, will the SNCB re-launch the Thalys Walloon line? If so, will it be a definitive restoration of this line? If SNCB intends to restore the Thalys Walloon, when will it be put back into service? What stations will be served and the schedules of the first and last trains on weekdays and weekends? What will be the frequency of Thalys Wallon on weekdays and weekends?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic576x.u100	Dear colleague, the issue of cross-border links with France has been the subject of special attention in my office for many months. This is not a Belgian decision; it should be noted that Minister Laurent Fabius took a decision in the course of 2015 with a view to abolishing several recognitions of cross-border links between France and Belgium. We were totally surprised to learn it, but in any case Thalys is not concerned. Thalys International being an autonomous railway operator, which has become much more autonomous today, he himself decides on his offer according to his trainsets, the impact on financial results and agreed contractual commitments. The SNCB does not have high-speed trainsets. Even if it managed to rent from SNCF, the cities of Liège and Namur could not be served, because these French trainsets are not equipped with an ETCS version compatible with that which is currently installed on the famous section that raises questions between Namur and Auvelais. Therefore, as far as high-speed services are concerned, the alternative currently offered to passengers by SNCB, whether you are happy with it or not, is via Brussels. SNCB informs me, however, that in the context of future developments in supply by 2020, it intends to analyse with its French partner SNCF the relevance, potential, technical feasibility and economic aspects of future services between France and Belgium. I refer in particular to the links between Charleroi, Mons, Valenciennes and Maubeuge.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic576x.u101	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic576x.u102	For the Belgian cities, it is Charleroi and Mons and on the other side, it is Maubeuge, Valenciennes and then Paris. All of these scenarios are under consideration at SNCB.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic576x.u103	Minister, I hear your clarifications. Is there a timeline within this time frame for reflection and study?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic576x.u104	Studies are carried out jointly between SNCB and SNCF. Difficulties exist, including the fact that the applicant pays the furrows. So if Belgium is asking to go to France, it will pay a maximum on the French trail. If the two companies are plaintiffs, each will bear the share of the trail that falls within its national territory. As in any negotiation, there is always a balance of forces. I would point out that SNCF is trying to preserve French interests, in particular the passage through high-speed lines on its territory.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic576x.u105	As in Carnival, the commission ends with a fireworks fire, minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic576x.u106	Sparks.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic576x.u107	The light. Light in darkness. We are just a few weeks away from the 2017 edition of the Binche Carnival, recognized as an oral and intangible heritage of humanity by UNESCO. An event that, as you know, brings together tens of thousands of participants. In 2016, SNCB had made two additional trains available to commuters from Binche to La Louvière and Brussels on the evening of Mardi-Gras. This had been achieved with great struggle and, I must say, Mrs Galant had played a significant role in the proper follow-up given to our request. Minister, what do you intend to put in place as part of the additional trains for the edition of this Tuesday-Gras 2017 knowing that there is an additional train available to passengers at 7:04 p.m. that does not pose any problems? An additional train had been requested after the fireworks that took place at around 9:30 p.m. and ended at about 10:00 p.m., 10:15 p.m.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic576x.u108	Dear colleague, in 2016, the decision to put in place an additional train at the end of the afternoon procession and fireworks had not been conclusive. Only 52 passengers had taken places on the last train leaving Binche railway station. We're going to put the occupancy rate on the trains in question last year. SNCB alone had borne the financial burden of the trains. I can understand that the capricious weather had contributed to the poor success of the occupancy of these trains in 2016, perhaps an inadequate schedule as well. On the other hand, I remain convinced that the use of public transport at major events, such as the Binche Carnival, is likely to reduce the risk of accidents and the mobility problems associated with the accessibility of these events. As a result, SNCB sent me the reply it sent you by mail. As every year, she joins the event and will propose a "Binche Carnival" ticket valid in the second class to get to Binche station. This round-trip ticket grants a 50% discount. The capacity of some scheduled trains will also be increased on 28 February. An additional train will also be set up. He'll be leaving Binche around 7:00. However, SNCB may also accept your request to put a second additional train after the fireworks and after the end of the regular service, but this time without taking the commercial risk. Thus, on the basis of a standard partnership with all the other organisers, in which they are involved in the financing of this train, SNCB could set up it and create a specific ticket, next to the ticket "Binche Carnival", according to the modalities mentioned in the above-mentioned mail. I don't know if you got it. I repeat that in the answer I give you today. I also remember that, last year, SNCB had conditioned the renewal of this experiment on the success of the additional trains put in place and on a good communication campaign. I have no doubt that the budgetary impact of this risk remains very reasonable in relation to the overall costs involved in organizing the carnival. If necessary, you can return to negotiate with SNCB to consider the practical modalities of the communication campaign. But SNCB says: "We are making an effort, there is a residual business risk; we ask the organiser, as we do with all other events, to participate in this risk".
ParlaMint-BE_2017-01-25-54-commissie-ic576x.u109	I thank the Minister for these clarifications.
