ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-14-54-commissie-ic617x.u1	Colleagues, I give the floor to the minister to present the state of affairs. You have seen that a few questions have been included which were related to the content of the reform, which also helps to ease the list of questions a little. As a result, the report of the exchange will be carried out by the full report service. Therefore, we must not appoint a rapporteur or rapporteur. The full report will be available. Madam Minister, this is yours.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-14-54-commissie-ic617x.u2	Madam President, I am here. Ladies and gentlemen, we are starting with the second important draft on the reform of the coordinated law on the exercise of health professions. I missed out on the rapporteur. Madam President, is there a rapporteur yet?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-14-54-commissie-ic617x.u3	This is not necessary because, with the questions attached, we can refer to the full report provided by the services.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-14-54-commissie-ic617x.u4	So, Madam President, there is no separate reporter?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-14-54-commissie-ic617x.u5	There is no rapporteur, but a report will be drawn up.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-14-54-commissie-ic617x.u6	Yes, but for business in the House... well, that's not my concern. Perhaps the Members of Parliament would like to discuss this. Legislation on health professions affects a lot of people in our society, first and foremost of course the patient. We all know that sooner or later in our lives we will be a patient. The relevant law, being the old Royal Decree No. 78 lays down professional regulations for almost 500 000 people in our country. We have completed the figures, but they are about 190 000 nurses who are the most important group in quantitative terms. There are also about 60 000 doctors, 10 000 dentists, 20 000 pharmacists, 37 000 physiotherapists, 110 000 healthcare professionals and 43 000 paramedics. Every year around 30 000 people apply for a visa in our country with which they can exercise a health care profession. These figures are based on the number of visas issued in our country. As you know, Royal Decree No. 78 regulates the exercise of the various health care professions since 1967. There are medical professions such as the profession of doctor, dental practitioner, midwifery and, as you know, recently there are the professions of clinician psychologist and clinician orthopaedagogue. In addition, there are the professions of pharmacists, physiotherapists, nurses, caregivers, paramedics, and paramedics. The conditions for the exercise of one of these professions were laid down in Royal Decree No. 78, which also lays down the limits for the exercise of these functions. The said royal decree was published in the Belgian Moniteur on 14 November 1967. In 2017, the care landscape is no longer the same as half a century ago. As a result, over the years, with many changes, we have tried to meet the evolving needs of the patient and have tried to integrate the emergence of new professions into the health care sector. Each time, this was done with the best intentions, but there was a lack of a comprehensive vision. In doing so, this law, which in the meantime was taken over under the law of 10 May 2015, has become illegible and incoherent. The reform of our health legislation is therefore a very important priority laid down in the government agreement. The reform should also be seen in relation to a whole range of policy choices made in healthcare, such as the reform of the hospital landscape and the treatment of patients with multiple chronic diseases. As a doctor, I am particularly concerned about the fact that the diagnosis, treatment and prevention of diseases must be based on sound scientific data and their analysis. All healthcare providers must take evidence-based practice into account, and it is therefore my explicit intention that the new legislation on healthcare professions and practice should cover the areas of care where we really work in accordance with scientifically sound standards and guidelines. It also follows that the new framework should provide guarantees for the implementation of evidence-based practice, including the evaluation and review of the quality of practice. Health care professionals will need to adapt and collaborate more. In other words, the new legislation on care professions must create a clear framework for multidisciplinarity and respect for the professional autonomy of everyone. The old model of health care, where each health care provider works in his corner, in his office, independently of the others, is completely out of date. Effective collaboration to treat the patient can only lead to superior quality and cost reduction, as has been demonstrated in many studies. We are not only confronted with another patient and another way to treat patients. There are also demographic evolution, with an ageing population, and the high prevalence of patients with chronic diseases. This indeed requires a new approach, in which the integration of care into a social rather than an institutional framework is called for. That is the third policy axis introduced in the reform. Ladies and gentlemen, the evolution of technology is becoming a revolution that, in the short term, will fundamentally influence the exercise of professions. Treatment opportunities continue to increase and interventions are becoming less invasive. There are new ways of following and communicating with the patient. The patient is now the manager of his own file. He/she will participate in the decision on who will be involved in his/her care and will outline the framework within which care providers and caregivers will operate. Through the Patient Rights Act of 22 August 2002, we have ensured that health care is constantly focused on the patient. The aim now is to consolidate and strengthen this central position and the patient's autonomy by placing this principle in the new legal framework. We are moving towards a concept of care whereby the patient takes charge of his or her own health as a co-pilot alongside the care providers. Thus the patient also decides on the direction to be taken in his or her own care process and the referral physician ensures that the whole is consistent and there is some continuity. Ladies and gentlemen, the impact of the sixth state reform on the law on the exercise of health professions has of course also been taken into account. As a result of the sixth state reform, the federal government is no longer competent for all aspects of this law. For example, the recognition of individual practitioners has clearly become a competence of the Communities, while the definition of the conditions of recognition, the professional traineeship, the planning and all aspects of quality in the exercise remain the federal competence. Finally, I would like to explain to you the process of approach that has been followed so far. In October 2015, I asked all public health councils established under the Royal Decree of 78 for advice on the generic competences of the professional domain for which they are competent. Not entirely on the side, meanwhile, the existing legislation has been adapted to the European Directive 2013/55 on the recognition of professional qualifications. As you know, this transposition also gives rise to a lively debate for certain professions. At the end of September 2016, a presentation was given to the general public of the broad lines of the modernisation and reform of the law. This was also accompanied by a call for a public consultation organised via a website. This was also necessary in view of the number of providers of care that the law takes into account. You will see the results of this consultation in the presentation. All comments were therefore catalogued in a document of 266 pages. The website is still active and is still being consulted every day. In addition, my staff have had numerous contacts with representatives of organisations and the field of work. Now is the time to validate and record a number of concepts in draft legislation. I would like to make it clear once again that, with the reform, we want to focus primarily on the creation of frameworks. Within these frameworks, it will then be left to the practice itself to elaborate on the details. Within this framework, there will also be implementing decisions to deal with a number of issues in detail. These implementing decisions require cooperation and coordination with the sector. That is why I am also planning to modernise the advisory bodies, which will make it possible to approach care professions in an interdisciplinary way, both from the field of work and from education. Let us now turn to the main concepts of the proposed reform. I give the floor to my staff. Tom Goffin is a lawyer and specialized in health law. Koen Vandewoude is a professor, doctor and specialist.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-14-54-commissie-ic617x.u7	We will propose the concepts on the basis of a powerpoint presentation. I assume that the chairman or Registrar will subsequently make the power point available to all of you on intranet. The first slide deals with the evolution of health law since the early 1960s. First of all, there are two important laws that are now more than 50 years old. The first law is the GVU law, the law on compulsory health insurance, which regulates a lot of important practical aspects of the doctor-patient relationship or, more generally, care provider-patient, which takes into account a number of qualitative requirements and efficiency requirements within that ratio, and which also regulates not least an important aspect of that relationship patient-provider, in particular the reimbursement of care. A second law, which is now more than 50 years old, is the law on hospitals. In addition to the law on compulsory health insurance, it is a very important law because it regulates the framework and an important part of the quality of the framework in the care of the patient. There is also the legal text that will be 50 years old this year, the famous Royal Decree No. 78 of 1967 on health professions. In the meantime, this has been coordinated in the Law of 10 May 2015. The three laws follow the original basic framework law of the 1960s. Since the 1980s, some new concepts have crept into health law. In the first instance, there is the concept of the patient's autonomy. Since then, more and more people have left the concept of medical paternalism. From then on, some important laws have been put in place that give patients a central place in health care. A very important law that came into force in 2002 is the law on Patient Rights. During that period there are also other laws, such as the Law on Euthanasia, the Law on Palliative Care, the Law on Damage Compensation after Medical Accidents and the Law on the Protection of Spiritual Diseases. Finally, some specific legal arrangements have also been established for specific medical actions, such as the Law on Blood, the Law on Organs, of 1986, and the Law on Human Body Material, Cells and Woven fabrics, of 2008. It should be noted that these laws are partly adapted to European legislation. In short, in the second phase, the patient was given a central place. Since the beginning of the years 2000, there have also been some new developments, which we must take into account when adapting the health framework. First of all, I think it is very important to take into account the ageing of the population and the emergence of patients with polypathology and chronicity in the diseases. This requires a new approach in healthcare. Second, care providers are increasingly working together in an interdisciplinary context around a patient or a particular target group of patients. A third important observation is that we are seeing extramural practices, private clinics, for which there is no specific qualitative framework. A fourth important point is the emergence of new means of communication. Those means of communication may be useful in monitoring the treatment of patients or in making a diagnosis in patients, who become an active partner in the diagnosis and follow-up of their treatment. There is the technological explosion and the digitalization, which offers many possibilities. Last but not least, while we have worked enormously over the past few decades on superspecialization, both among doctors and nurses, we are now finding that we really need transversal care actors, who look over the whole of the patient's care. In other words, we have a legal framework. Subsequently, the patient's autonomy and the patient's central position were highlighted. And now we will have to deal more and more with new problems and design regulations, where the patient has a central place and care for quality. In other words, there are new needs. We need health care within an interdisciplinary framework, offering high quality care tailored to the patient and in cooperation with the patient, according to the concept of pilot and copilot already indicated by the Minister. That is why we want to develop the existing legislation further in two new models: a framework law on the healthcare professions themselves and the conditions for obtaining the different titles, and on the other hand, we want to address legislation that deals with healthcare practice. As I have already pointed out, it is important to move more and more towards high-quality benefits. There are, in our view, three main pillars. In the first instance, there is the central place of the patient you find on the right side of the slide where the patient's autonomy is very important and must be respected. The patient's autonomy is opposed to the professional autonomy of the care providers, assuming that the competences of these care providers are very important and that the competences of the care providers derive from the competences they have acquired during primary education and during continuing training or during professional traineeships. We consider professional autonomy to be very important. We write here that it is functional. This means that it is characterised by the context in which it is created. Finally, it is very important to address the issue of interdisciplinarity so that care is developed in an integrated way. Here too, there is a functional hierarchy between care providers and no longer a pyramidal hierarchy where doctors are at the top of the pyramid and at the bottom of the nurses and caregivers. So we are moving towards a collaborative model of care provision.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-14-54-commissie-ic617x.u8	The reform of the Royal Decree No. 78 is a reform that has a very long history. As already indicated, the Royal Decree No. 78 this year 50 years old. It's from November 10, 1967. At present, however, we do not have KB No. 78 more, but the co-ordinated law of 10 May 2015. During the previous legislature, the Council of State was instructed to coordinate this legislative text in order to improve the legibility, especially as regards numbering. This ultimately led to the coordinated law of 10 May 2015. However, no changes were made in substance. The Council of State has also failed to do the division between what was Community competence and what is still federal. In the reform of the Royal Decree No. 78 we go not to a law but to three laws. Extreme right you see the coordinated law of 10 May 2015. This is because, as mentioned above, the sixth state reform has provided a number of powers that remain in that legislation. They will remain here until the time when the Communities themselves will have settled this matter. On the other hand, because the Royal Decree 78 has been dealt with countless times over the years, there are also a number of provisions which are not so much concerned with the effective exercise of individual healthcare professions but which we do not want to include in this reform. Therefore, we will continue to include a number of chapters such as the Stichting Kankerregister and the establishment rules of the pharmacies in that co-ordinated law of 10 May 2015 until the federal legislator adopts other legislation that will regulate these chapters in separate legislation. In addition, you will see a framework law on healthcare professions which will actually take over the broad lines of the Royal Decree 78 and the law on quality practice in health care. We see these two laws as a tandem. They are both necessary in order to bring this reform of the Royal Decree 78 to a successful conclusion. As the Minister has already pointed out, this reform has been under way for a number of years. A first important moment was last year, September 28, 2016 when we presented the concepts of the Royal Decree 78 in a very well attended conference. At that conference we also proposed a website, the website www.kb78.be or www.ar78.be, which is very much visited. I shall give you the figures very briefly since then. Since then there have been 57 953 visits on the website, on the French version 43 437, so together some 100 000 people have visited the website. This has led to a number of reactions because, as the Minister has said, we asked the question, after the presentation, to organise a public consultation in which we asked everyone for reactions. This led to 404 comments via the Dutch version of the website and 305 comments via the French version. We've analyzed all these reactions. This has led to a slight change in some of the concepts that we proposed in September. The consultation that has also taken place in the meantime with different actors, as well as with people who have responded through the website, is shown on the following slide. I won't name the slides all of them. Since you will receive a copy of the slides, you can look at the institutions or bodies that have responded or that have already entered into consultation with us on this matter. At present, 101 institutions or bodies are involved. This does not mean that we have not yet heard or received responses from individuals, but they are not included in the schedule.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-14-54-commissie-ic617x.u9	It is clear that in recent years quality and safety in care has become one of the political priorities through the legislative periods in the context of health. Also within the Hospital Budget Financial Resources an important part budget is provided for the development of a good safety and quality culture in our care facilities. This is not a unique Belgian phenomenon, but it is a phenomenon at European level. In fact, this was initiated at the end of the 1990s following a publication of the Institute of Medicine in the United States, which highlighted that care provision not only has beneficial curative effects on the patient, but that there are also adverse effects on health in a significant number of patients. They are sometimes of a lasting nature, which is why it is necessary to develop a safety and quality culture. A second important observation in the report, which is not on the slides, is that the Institute of Medicine found that our concern so far is far too focused on acute episodes of care, while we now have more patients with chronic pathology, with occasional exacerbations, flares of pathology. It is clear that our healthcare model needs to be developed much more interdisciplinaryly and integratedly. An important point in the alignments that have taken place in recent years is that the caregivers themselves have become asking parties to develop a quality framework. Also doctors who work in private practices, extramural clinics, actually demand a quality framework in such a way that they can distinguish themselves from the screw-ups and charlatans, let us put it this way. They also indicate that they are ready to be inspected to clearly document their quality. Moreover, it is also up to the caregivers to document that they are effectively competent for the actions or benefits they offer. This is not only an element already present in the existing Royal Decree No. 78, but it is a general duty of care as defined in the Civil Code and it is also a deontological duty developed in Belgium by the existing orders, but also highly developed by the World Medical Association. An important element is also that the professional who does not consider himself capable of providing a particular diagnosis or care has a referral or coordination obligation with respect to a colleague. So he has to refer his patient. This is a matter which has become a legal obligation since 1 September of last year. Within the framework of European regulation, I can also mention a number of issues relating to quality and safety. Directive 2011/24 on patient rights in cross-border care lists a number of issues to provide better guarantees for patients. In this context, guarantees should be provided for each patient to have access to high quality care regardless of the organisation, whatever the nature of the provision and whatever the funding framework. We have already mentioned in this presentation the role of Europe in defining specific criteria for quality and safety in legislation on blood cell tissues and organ prélevation. It has been Europe's intention to establish a minimum quality framework so that a minimum quality framework has been established throughout the European Union for these benefits, for these very specific purposes. There has also been an important recommendation from Europe in 2009 that focuses on patient safety. At the time, there was a strong emphasis on the prevention of health-related infections. Recommendations have been made on the development of quality systems and patient safety systems. A major emphasis has been placed on informing the patient properly about the nature of the diagnostics provided, including the risks a patient may experience in a particular care process. The European recommendations also address the right forms of staff and lifelong learning. Not least, one of the recommendations was to replace and activate systems and signal incidents or near-incidents and learning systems, which is very well described in French with morbidité-mortalité conférences. In another part of the 2009 Recommendation, Member States focus on improving the prevention and management of infections in general. This remains an important element in the context of increasing antibiotic resistance.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-14-54-commissie-ic617x.u10	Madam President, in the reform of Royal Decree No. 78 a number of definitions and concepts are redefined. A first of these is the patient, which will be defined as any natural person wishing to receive or receive healthcare. This definition is inspired by the definition given to patients under the Directive on patients' rights in cross-border healthcare. We have done the same with the definition of health care provision. Here too, we have got our inspiration from the European directive on cross-border healthcare and patients' rights. Health care or healthcare provision will therefore be defined as services provided by healthcare professionals to patients in order to assess, maintain or restore the health status of the latter. This includes individual health education and prevention. That last phrase was added in the wake of the reactions we received in September 2016 to the proposed definition. Several people pointed out that the aspect of individual prevention, as well as of health education, are essential elements of health care provision. Consequently, an explicitation in this definition is appropriate. A second part of the definition of healthcare provision relates to the services provided without such a purpose to patients for whom healthcare professionals are legally competent. These are the acts for which certain legislation has been created to specifically empower a doctor, or for example a blood-law nurse, to legalise a particular instrument, which is not in itself a health care institution. The prototype is, of course, euthanasia, where a doctor has the power to legally perform euthanasia, provided that he or she fulfils the conditions of the euthanasia law. At present, such documents, which have no diagnostic or therapeutic purpose, are not health care. As a result, they fall outside the scope of quality legislation, such as the Patient Rights Act. We want to create a general quality framework, a framework that applies to everyone and always to health care. Therefore, this definition of health care provision is twofold. Let us first look at the first law, the law on quality practice in health care. The intention of this law is actually to transform Article 5 of the 2002 Patient Rights Act into more concrete quality rules. Article 5 states that the patient is entitled, with respect for his human dignity and his self-determination and without distinction on any basis whatsoever to the practitioner, to a quality service which meets his needs. Through this quality law, we will further develop various aspects of the definition in Article 5. The relationship between the law on patients' rights and the law on quality practice in health care is therefore intended as a transition from that law on patients' rights, which is a very important principle law, to a quality law, which is a little closer to practical practice and will impose more specific rules on quality in this area. In this legislation, we will distinguish between a number of general quality requirements applicable to all health care benefits provided by all healthcare professionals, regardless of the setting in which they work. This means that a doctor in a hospital will have to meet this requirement, but also a nurse in a residential care centre, and the like. This general quality framework applies to the healthcare provider who provides a healthcare service, regardless of where he or she will provide it. In addition, the legislation will also contain a chapter on the quality requirements applicable to healthcare professionals doing surgical benefits, with more specific rules. A first part of the general quality requirement concerns professional autonomy.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-14-54-commissie-ic617x.u11	A first element is indeed the professional autonomy that we take over from the existing Royal Decree No. 78. Within the existing KB No. 78 have been introduced some restrictions on professional autonomy. It goes without saying that this autonomy is also limited in part by the existing evidention and that it is assumed that professionals work within a framework of evidence-based practice, as mentioned earlier. A second element is that, for acute treatment with antibiotics and antifungals, a substitution scheme has already been developed for pharmacists, with the possibility of derogating from regulations made by doctors. This is actually a detail. A second important element is the authorization. The professional should be able, where appropriate, to inform the patient that the devices and health products he uses are effectively authorised. Devices and products not covered by an authorisation system are the responsibility of the practitioner himself. The practitioner himself must be able to deliver a certificate or a certificate of quality and, where appropriate, a certificate of proper maintenance.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-14-54-commissie-ic617x.u12	One of the great innovations in the reform of the Royal Decree 78 is that we are actually going to give the visa, which in itself is a very old one because it was already in the Royal Decree 78 itself, a completely new version. The visa actually becomes a kind of professional identity card of the healthcare professional in which the healthcare professional will at any time be able to demonstrate his effective ability to act. In fact, in addition to what is actually the legal competence to act created by the Royal Decree 78 and the reform of the framework law on health professions, we also want to emphasise the actual competence of the healthcare professional through the visa and the professional identity card. Each healthcare provider will have an obligation to maintain a portfolio in order to demonstrate that he or she has received the necessary training and has acquired the necessary professional experience to greatly highlight that actual competence. That visa and that portfolio will also be given a very important one in the context of functional differentiation within a health care domain because it will allow the healthcare domain, which is a very broad domain, to indicate that one nurse is not the other. Any caregiver will be able to show that he's a little different from the other.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-14-54-commissie-ic617x.u13	Another topic that we want to touch in this presentation is the importance of characterizing the patient. This is an element that is not actually developed in existing legislation at the moment. In principle, before a patient is given a treatment, the care professional does a structured and systematic characterization of the patient and makes a risk assessment of what he intends to do with that patient, either a diagnostic instrument or a therapeutic instrument. This characterisation is, among other things, an anamnestic process, but also, of course, a clinical study, possibly supplemented by paraclinical studies, which properly map the patient's state of health, identify the relevant risk derivatives, especially in relation to the action one wishes to take. Finally, the characterization is also relevant to the caregiver himself, because he must take into account that he has to work within the limits of his competences and abilities. Therefore, depending on the complexity of a particular provision, a care professional may be required to refer a patient. We also think it is very important that the patient's characterisation is properly recorded in the electronic patient file. In healthcare practice legislation, we also want to address a number of high-risk health care services that we do not think can actually be done in the context of an extra-mural provision. As you know, the hospital law also states the famous Article 82 which states that the King can make a list of benefits in kind which must be provided in a hospital. This should have been a list of achievements defined by nomenclature, but it has not been possible to establish this list in recent decades. The approach of healthcare practice legislation is different. We are trying to define in a more generic way a number of situations where the risk derivatives are greater in relation to the patient and where it is better to provide them in the more secure and interdisciplinary environment of a hospital. I will give some examples, but I will not go over all the topics on the slide: for example surgical performance where there is a very important comorbidity in the patient, e.g. complex diabetes, advanced COPD, chronic pulmonary disease, cardiovascular instability, anesthesiological risk Class 3 and 4. Class 3 means that the patient has abnormal vital parameters, so an increased risk. Class 4 means that the patient is vitally threatened. Such patients have a profile that actually doesn't allow the provision in an extramural, private clinic to happen. A second generic example is surgical provision where it is clear that the patient would need post-operative intensive care, or need a framework by anaesthetists and specialized nurses. It is clear that such type of benefits cannot be provided in an extra-mural facility. Other examples are interventions where it can be predicted that blood products or blood transfusions will be needed with great certainty. Also experimental benefits in kind, Phase 1 and Phase 2, seem to us to be better done within the context of a hospital, given the inherent risks. A few other examples are also given here, which you can read. An important issue that is also addressed in the preliminary draft legislation on healthcare practice is sedation and anaesthesia. The aim is to impose a number of minimum quality requirements when a patient is put into sedation or when a locoregional or general anaesthetic is started. Because it is clear, of course, that there are a number of risks associated with putting patients into anesthesia. In case of sedation, very careful attention should be paid to the airway. If there are incidents, a patient must be able to be assisted immediately, he must be able to be intubated and ventilated. When sedation is given, consciousness may have fallen in such a way that there are certain general risk derivatives associated with it. Administration of opiates or other products sedatives may be associated with haemodynamic instability, which should be dealt with immediately. This has already been designed in Belgian guidelines of the scientific association for anesthesiology and resuscitation. We believe it is important for a patient who is being sedated or who is undergoing complete anaesthesia to be guaranteed the presence of an anesthesiologist in a one-to-one relationship between patient and anesthesiologist. When such anesthesias occur in private clinics, we consider it important that there is a framework agreement with an approved hospital, so that, in case of serious complications, patients can be easily taken care of by a more multidisciplinary team sent by the hospital, e.g. a MUG equipe. It is also necessary to make arrangements with the hospital in case the patient needs to be transferred. A cooperation agreement must therefore be drawn up between the private clinic and the hospital's infrastructure in case of need.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-14-54-commissie-ic617x.u14	In the context of the reform, we are also drawing up a number of subjects or chapters in the Royal Decree of 1978, which we are putting into the Quality Act. This includes the topic of continuity of care. The principles set out on the slide are already laid down to some extent in the Royal Decree of 1978, with the exception of the last point, in which we impose on a health practitioner who ceases his or her practice an obligation to make the necessary arrangements so that the patient files with all relevant information can, of course with the agreement of the individual patient, be transferred to the healthcare practitioner designated by the patient. If a practice is suddenly stopped for one reason or another, for example because the doctor has died, a back-up system is provided through the Health Care Quality Management Board, which will make the necessary arrangements. This will also change in the context of permanence and watchkeeping. After all, this is transferred to the quality law. The principles of permanence have only recently been revised. During the previous legislature, Articles 8 and 9 were substantially amended to that effect. These principles are being evaluated and, if necessary, further developed here and there. The principle currently contained in Royal Decree No. 78 on permanence and watchkeeping, however, will be maintained to an important extent. What will be provided for is a power of redress by the governor in the event of a specific need in the context of the watchkeeping services. Provision will also be made for a framework allowing exemptions, for example for physical restrictions or when someone is no longer active in healthcare practice, but is still recognised as a healthcare practitioner. In the context of the discussions on advertising and practice, we also want to make the regulation on the prohibition of advertising, which was established at the time under the law on aesthetic surgery, more universal. We want to introduce the principles of practice and the ban on advertising into the quality law. This will mean that a healthcare professional will only be able to make his or her practice known to the public in an objective manner and will therefore not be allowed to make extensive advertising of his or her practice. At present, this already exists for certain health professionals, such as dentists, while others do not. A general rule in the Quality Act will therefore apply to everyone. In the context of health data, the quality law also defines the minimum content of the patient file. This minimum content is a combination of the different laws and regulations relating to the patient file, in which we try to find the largest common denominator. In addition, we are also defining the therapeutic relationship necessary for the exchange of health data between healthcare professionals or for a healthcare professional to have access to a patient's health data. This therapeutic relationship is of course already defined by the Privacy Commission. We will base our legislation on this advice by the Privacy Commission in order to create the necessary legal framework for this. The rules relating to the requirement will also be included in the Quality Act. With regard to the prescription, here I make the link with the framework health professions law, the principle is that a referral by a doctor on prescription will still be possible, including in the new legislation. However, a number of other rules are also possible. There can be reference for the continuation of treatment, i.e. not for a partial aspect of treatment. One can say, for example, that I as a doctor have completed my part, I refer you to a physiotherapist for a complete continuation. There are, of course, a number of guarantees in the context of patient records and the charging of reports to ensure continuity. The referral to group rules is also provided for, in the sense that it will be possible for a doctor to instruct a multi- or interdisciplinary team of caregivers to take on an aspect or a continuation. In this way, we are trying to restore the legal basis for this interdisciplinarity, which is already a reality in different areas of health care. Finally, you will also see direct access on the slide. With regard to direct access, we are going to look at the extent to which it is possible to allow healthcare professionals to receive patients directly so that they do not always have to pass through for the slightest. In this way, the doctor or the general practitioner will not be entrusted with unnecessary consultations just to obtain that prescription, while direct access for certain healthcare professionals in certain situations is perfectly possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-14-54-commissie-ic617x.u15	In the reform, and in particular the health practice aspect, the aim is to provide a better and more coherent legal framework, in particular for the extra-mural relations with regard to the supply and storage of medicinal products and health products, not least including implants. The first principle is that the professional for the supply of these products should use a recognised official. The second principle is that any practitioner who prescribes medicinal products or health products can have a depot containing medicinal products and health products and that this depot is, of course, kept in a secure manner. The third principle, with regard to the depot, is that there must be a cooperation agreement with a holder of an official open to the public or with a holder of a hospital pharmacy. The depot itself is treated as an official who is not open to the public. An important principle is also that the pharmacist-titularis with whom a cooperation agreement is concluded over the depot has a final responsibility, in other words that he is responsible for monitoring the quality of the products, the conditions under which the products are kept and the traceability and vigilance of the products when they are used. In addition to the general quality rules in the legislation on healthcare practices, which we have already addressed, we provide for a second layer of a number of supplementary conditions specific to surgical practices. In the first instance, it seems obvious to us that when medical treatment is carried out in an extra-mural practice, there is a structured and formalised cooperation with a general hospital which has rooms where patients can be admitted for observation and receive adequate treatments. This cooperation agreement therefore provides for agreements on continuity and permanence for patients treated extramurally. In other words, if a patient has a smaller or greater complication, the provider must provide him with adequate information so that he is able to have proper access to adequate care in a hospital. The second important element in surgical benefits in kind is that there must be a basic quality framework. By this we mean that the care provider must be able to demonstrate for a number of routine services that he works according to a structured care path. It defines a number of key interventions to be followed when providing care to the patient. In other words, he basically has a quality manual for his practice. The third condition for medical benefits in kind is that there must be a form of quality control. On the one hand, there must be some form of self-checking. The provider may keep the results of his treatments in a register. There must also be a register of complications, from which the provider learns. In addition to this system of auto-checking, it looks at how the Federal Health Inspectorate can play a better role. I will go into this in more detail when we talk about the Council for Quality Practice. More specifically, it is possible to look at a form of accreditation for providers in general. The fourth condition for surgical practice is that it looks at a form of registration of these practices wherever they are located, both in hospitals and outside hospitals. Let us then go into one of the reforms that we provide for the advisory structures of the FPS, in particular the installation of a board for quality practice in healthcare. This quality council or quality council would break up into two chambers. A first chamber has advisory powers, where there is also a link with advisory bodies that decide on the development of healthcare professions. In this advisory room working groups can be set up to develop guidelines, make recommendations, propose implementation pathways for evidence-based medicine, and also identify indicators related to quality structure, process and outcome. Thus, on the one hand, an advisory chamber, on the other hand, an enforcement and monitoring chamber, which falls apart in a Dutch and French-speaking chamber, whereby the federal health inspectors can find a sounding board for the findings they make on checks, ad hoc checks or random checks, in such a way that conclusions can be drawn from them in a systematic manner and, where appropriate, interventions can also be made. Those interventions may take the form of a recommendation to improve practice, but may also take the form of withdrawal of a visa or subject to conditions. In other words, they can restrict or even completely withdraw access to the health profession. On this slide you will see more of a colorful summary of how that quality board will bring together a number of existing organs. It concerns the existing medical committees which have now been developed at provincial level. It's about the existing medical lectures within the FPS Health Department. Those medical colleges are currently finding their legal basis in the hospital law and are merely expressing their opinion on the quality of medical practice in hospitals. It is intended that such lectures should take a more general view of the quality of medicine, including the quality of medicine in extramural facilities. An important point is also that we provide for the Federal Committee on Patient Rights to be incorporated into the Quality Council. We believe that this is an important plus, because this Committee on Patients' Rights has a better view of what is happening in practice in general. The Federal Council for the Quality of Nursing Activity is also included in the Quality Board. In the scheme you can see that the quality council falls apart in an advisory room and an enforcement and monitoring room. It should also be clear that this quality council not only operates, is active, but that there should be links with the quality institutes established by the federated entities, that there should be a link with the recognition committees, with the Health Care Professionals Board, that there should be a link with the Knowledge Centre, with the Health and Research System, and that there should also be a link with the RIZIV, in particular with bodies within the RIZIV that are involved in effectiveness, with the Department of Medicine Evolution and Control of the RIZIV, because there is a wealth of information available there that can be used in assessing quality of care.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-14-54-commissie-ic617x.u16	The other law is the framework law on the exercise of health professions. By creating the quality law to an important extent, we will be able to limit ourselves in that framework law to the essence, the effective exercise of the various health professions. As mentioned in the introduction, it is intended that, in the context of this exercise, this definition of the health professions should highlight the equivalence of the various professions as essential links of the patient's health care circuit. Hierarchy will therefore continue to exist, but only in the form of a functional hierarchy. To emphasise this equivalence, we want to start with a general professional and competence profile in this new framework law on the exercise of health professions. This general professional and competence profile of the health care professional is of course not something that comes out of the blue. In doing so, we have based ourselves on the scientifically long accepted Canadian model of the Canwet. This is a model that allows a checklist to verify whether a specific healthcare provider has the necessary skills to actively exercise health care. It concerns seven competences, namely cooperation, communication, knowledge and science, social action, professionalism, organisation and competence. The principle is that every healthcare provider must be able to meet these seven competences in a sense so that he or she can provide health care as a careful and quality care provider. On the slides you will find the CanMeds model as proposed by the Canadians. We have transformed the general professional and competence profile into seven specific rules. Within the framework of professional competence, the healthcare professional will have an obligation to provide a quality and safe provision of the healthcare within the limits of professional and factual competence. The healthcare professional collects and interprets the information necessary for making decisions. The healthcare professional makes patient-oriented decisions and acts on them in a way that is scientifically based and socially responsible and motivated by current good practices. In doing so, he shall conduct interdisciplinary consultations with other healthcare professionals. In the context of communication, the principle is that the healthcare professional respects the rights of the patient. He places the patient at the centre and builds a relationship of trust with the patient. He actively listens to the opinion and experiences of the patient regarding the provision of healthcare and respects it. It is also important that the healthcare professional, together with the patient, develops the pilot co-pilot concept already referred to, including a plan to address his or her medical problems and achieve health goals, taking into account the needs, values and wishes of the patient. It is quite clear that the patient is very central to this concept. The healthcare professional integrates his knowledge, including the context in which the patient is located, the socio-economic status of the patient and other relevant psychological and social aspects. The healthcare professional also consults with the patient's relatives at the request of the patient. Finally, in the context of communication, the healthcare professional uses information technology for optimal patient care. As far as cooperation is concerned, the healthcare professional works complementaryly with other healthcare providers to offer quality benefits. In doing so, he recognises the competences of the other healthcare professionals within the spectrum of health care. He contributes to effective interdisciplinary cooperation and integrated health care and refers to another competent healthcare professional when the health problems requiring intervention exceed the limits of his/her own area of competence. As Professor Vandewoude has just mentioned, the Royal Decree No. 78 and the law of 10 May 2013 states that Article 31/1 since 1 September of last year. Knowledge and science. The healthcare professional commits to a lifelong learning process through a personal continuing training plan to continuously promote the quality of health care benefits and to improve patient safety. He is critical and engages in dialogue with other healthcare professionals, patients and other healthcare stakeholders. Organization. The health care professional organises health care benefits in a way that ensures the continuity of the patient's care, if necessary together with other health care professionals. He organizes the work so that a good relationship between work and private life arises. We also stress the problem of burn-out and related problems and want to create an opening to organise the balance between work and private life properly. The healthcare professional contributes to an organisation of healthcare at patient level, either individually or as part of an inter- and multidisciplinary team at local, regional, national and global level. Professionalism. The healthcare professional provides high-quality patient care in an honest, sincere and involved manner. He exhibits adequate, personal and interprofessional professional behaviour. He knows the limits of his own competence and acts accordingly and exercises health care according to the usual ethical standards of the profession. Finally, social action. The healthcare professional promotes, through prevention and health promotion, the health of patients and the community, without distinction on any ground. He uses his knowledge to draw attention to the important health problems at the level of the individual patient, patient populations and the community, and he acts adequately in the event of health care incidents, in the sense that some kind of reporting system is an interesting fact. Of course, with a general definition of the professional and competence profile, we are still not many. We have then given a general approach, but within the framework law on the exercise of health care professions, a separate definition will also be made for the various health care professions. We will try to do this in a more integrated way than is currently the case in the Royal Decree 78, namely at the moment the distinction between the medical professions and the other professions. We are going to look more closely at what they are doing effectively and how they can work together in practice and thus bring together certain professions in a number of healthcare domains as presented here on the flower model in the different petals. Of course, it is not because one petal describes health professions in the framework law that one cannot cooperate with other health professionals, it is a division to create a certain coherence. It is very important that patients and quality healthcare are at the heart of this process and that the various petals are all brought together as essential parts of health care in this way. We are also going to describe these health professions in a more open, dynamic and positive way than is currently included in the Royal Decree 78. This open, dynamic and positive definition will be based on what is already stated in the Royal Decree 78 on the exercise of health care professions, but also on what is defined at European level, as well as on what has already been referred to, in particular on the professional and competence profiles drawn up by the federal advisory bodies. These different documents together will enable us to describe these professions in an open and dynamic way. We have tried, as part of the reform of the Royal Decree 78, to create a uniform path for the various health care professionals, because since the Royal Decree 78 has been amended many times over the last 50 years, each profession has its own course of action in order to achieve the effective exercise of the profession. Through a uniform system in which we start from a diploma after basic training and possibly a professional internship one will be able to obtain a visa. That visa is therefore linked to the portfolio to which I have already referred. Depending on the appeal, registration with the Order will be necessary. Then, again depending on the profession, an additional specialisation will be possible. As Professor Vandewoude pointed out earlier in the introduction, we want to try to increase the employability of the various health professionals. It is interesting to put forward the idea of a specialization column in which we want to reduce the different specialisations and bring them together in larger specialization columns, in order to highlight the multi-useability of the different healthcare professionals who are specialised. The special professional skills system will be enclosed in the portfolio. The portfolio will thus be able to reflect the special professional skills. In the context of the illegal exercise, this will also change. The principle remains, of course, that health care is exercised by healthcare professionals. However, the crime of unlawful practice of medicine or nursing will be substantially modified. What's gonna be illegal? This is also something that has been modified under the impetus of the various reactions we received on kb78.be. It is illegal when the provision of health care is provided within the exercise of the profession, without the person concerned being a health care practitioner himself. Another illegality is when a person receives financial compensation directly for the provision of healthcare. Those who believe to provide health care, but do not, are also subject to the unlawful practice of medicine or nursing. That way the charlatans can be caught. I'd like to give you a schematic description. What do you think that tweaking the crime is gonna do? We start from the principle that healthcare is provided by healthcare professionals. Where a non-health care professional provides health care but does so outside the exercise of a profession and without any financial benefit, such as, for example, a care provider in the vicinity of a patient, he or she will not be covered by the offence of unlawful pursuit. At present, the caretaker is in Royal Decree No. 78 as an exception to the unlawful exercise of nursing. The fact that we will now be writing that only if we do so professionally will carers in themselves no longer be covered by the offence of unlawful practice and should therefore no longer be described as an exception to that crime. As a result, the caregiver will no longer be included in the framework law implementing health professions. However, this does not mean that the social status, which was also created under the impetus of the 2014 law, will also disappear. This will, of course, continue to apply in full. The carers. The patient's environment. This is outside the scope of the illegal exercise of health care. If, however, this is done within the course of the profession, or with a financial advantage, we have then created a new division, i.e. when it is done within the course of the profession in the vicinity of the patient. Typical example: a child care provider, who is to administer antibiotics to a baby within a nursery, provides health care. This should not, in principle, be allowed to happen, but since this is in the patient's vicinity, we are going to create the status of the competent helper. On the other hand, when it comes not so much to the patient's environment but to the health care provider's environment, for example, when someone is going to perform a very technical task in the context of a surgical provision, although he or she is not a health care practitioner, this will not become a competent helper, but a technician. The exceptions to the unlawful exercise are limited, within the framework law, to the competent helper, on the one hand, in the context of the patient's environment, and the technician, on the other, in the context of the health care provider's environment. The conditions for the competent helper are the following. The tasks shall be delegated to: non-health care professionals within a controlled quality framework. The conditions are that it still takes place under the responsibility of a healthcare professional, possibly after a health care professional who has given a training course, under a clearly defined procedure or treatment plan, when the patient, or for example in the context of a crèche, has given consent to the parents together with the health care professional, and that the healthcare professional nevertheless draws up a document describing, inter alia, the identity of the patient. Important among the competent helper is that we no longer put the identity of the competent helper as a condition, so that it is possible, for example in disability care, that there is a set-up without any specific indication of who will effectively implement that plan. For this technician we are going to impose even stricter conditions, and it is necessary to indicate the identity of the technician and therefore to define in a very specific way what delivery he will be able to make when.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-14-54-commissie-ic617x.u17	Finally, in the operative part of the healthcare professions, we include a database on healthcare professions. It is also important to note that we now also provide for effective title protection for each title. It is also important to note that a European data exchange system already exists in the framework of the European Directive 2005/36 and 2013/55, which has been transposed recently as mentioned above. This gives each Member State access to the status of each healthcare professional. A permanent database is being set up in our country, which is also accessible to the general public, so that it can be verified whether a doctor or a doctor who poses as a doctor actually has a doctor's visa. The information will be more detailed. It will be possible to determine whether a visa holder is subject to conditions or whether certain deontological or disciplinary sanctions have been imposed for a certain period of time. To conclude, we provide for a reform of the advisory bodies in the framework law on health professions. As you know, there are currently numerous advisory bodies within the Public Health Office. These advisory bodies have grown historically. There's one for doctors, nurses, midwifes, dentists, and so on. For all healthcare professions, including paramedical professions, we have a board, except for pharmacists who do not have an advisory body. It's strange that this never happened. We want to reform these councils and bring them closer together, in the sense that a umbrella board for health professions will be set up. We think this is very important because we are creating a structure where doctors, nurses, midwiferys, dentists and pharmacists together in an interdisciplinary way think about the development of health professions in a transversal way. We also want to retain a number of chambers, which are operating under the umbrella, in which advice can be given earlier specifically to the various professions, such as doctors, nurses and pharmacists, who will be dealt with, dentals, mental care professions, you know that that law entered into force on 1 September 2016, the midwifery and rehabilitation professions, which will include a number of paramedical professions. There are also the mid-term and rehabilitation professions, which regroup a number of paramedical professions. The slide clearly shows that we do not provide for a specific board for each profession. This would give rise to an enormous hypertrophy in the advisory councils. That is not desirable and not manageable for our public service. What we do want to focus on is regular calls from experts from the academic world and from the field of work. These experts can then be identified on the basis of their curriculum and on the basis of their expertise. Those experts may be involved in ad hoc working groups carrying out thematic work or in permanent working groups dealing with healthcare professions or certain aspects of healthcare professions. This scheme also includes the Planning Committee. We believe it is important that the Planning Committee, which is now very isolated in the law on the exercise of health professions, should be in Article 92, which provides an isolated place and becomes closer to the Health Occupations Board, so that it can become acquainted with the evolution of health professions and with the impact of that evolution on the planning of medical supply and the planning of the provision of other healthcare professions. Finally, we also provide for a deontological chamber in this scheme. It is a long-standing desire in the legislative chamber to take transversal initiatives on deontology across the various health professions. We want to respond to this by creating such a transversal body, which has the task of thinking about a professional title and care domain cross-domain deontology. That Chamber may also reflect on certain cases or deontological themes and make recommendations. However, I would like to point out on this occasion that there is no intention of developing disciplinary bodies or disciplinary law in that deontological chamber. Then we come to the final slide to the conclusion. It was in fact mentioned at the beginning in the objectives of the reform. We want to move towards a health-related framework for healthcare, interdisciplinary care, based on competent and competent healthcare professionals whose objective is to provide high-quality care to the patient, and in which the patient is central. Care is cut especially in collaboration with the patient to suit the patient according to the health objectives that the patient formulates for himself.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-14-54-commissie-ic617x.u18	(...) a detailed review of the reform of the Royal Decree No. 78 is. Other legislative work is underway, such as the Framework Act and the Quality of Care Act. Then there is a remnant of the law of May 10, 2015, when all the rest is taken out in those other two. So that's a big bite for this committee. We will come here one by one with these laws. I hope that the necessary explanations will also be given in the field. After all, this is a very important major recast, including within our services, of all kinds of advisory committees, which are now in existence. At the same time, it must also give greater transparency and involvement to all professions, so that one discipline knows what the other disciplines are doing and vice versa.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-14-54-commissie-ic617x.u19	Thank you all three for this presentation. This means that, in terms of schedule, deadlines or milestones, nothing has been set?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-14-54-commissie-ic617x.u20	Madam President, we are proceeding in a phased manner for the timeline. First, we want to address the framework law on healthcare practice. They are quite advanced in this respect. A number of concrete projects are still being described, which will then give rise to legality and will take the classic course of consultation with the sector. The healthcare practice law will involve consultation with providers and not least, of course, with doctors, on the one hand, and with hospitals, on the other. The framework law quality care practice creates an equal level playing field of quality for hospitals and for extramural practices. It is, of course, important that we also hear the relevant actors. In any case, it was an excellent idea of our Minister to organise a public consultation. In this way, we have received enormous input from the sector, both from organisations and individuals. We have inventoried, repertorated these comments, and we have already had a great deal of benefit from them at the moment. This has led to moving insight. You have also noticed that the presentation we have given here together on a number of pieces is different from the presentation given last year on 28 September. Secondly, we want to address health professions legislation. As far as care practice is concerned, we would try to go to the Council of Ministers before the summer so that under your presidency the draft legislation in this committee can be dealt with in the autumn. For the care professions, we are rather aiming at a timeline starting in the autumn as far as the Council of Ministers is concerned.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-14-54-commissie-ic617x.u21	This is for practice.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-14-54-commissie-ic617x.u22	For the practice of care, our aim is to create a dossier that is ready for the Council of Ministers before the summer holidays, so that the Council of State can deliver its opinion before this deadline. For the framework law on health professionals, we want to introduce a dossier to the Council of Ministers certainly between the summer and the New Year.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-14-54-commissie-ic617x.u23	Do any members wish to speak after this very dense presentation?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-14-54-commissie-ic617x.u24	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for the great work and the explanatory statement. I have a few general remarks, things I'm missing, but maybe it's gone too fast, or they might have died on the way through the evolution you've been through. Furthermore, I have a number of punctual points on things you have said. I'm going to start with the reaction to the things you said. I think it is very positive that you set out the intention to implement more concretely the quality of services, building on Article 5 of the law on patients' rights. On Monday, my colleague Gerkens and I attended the very interesting round table "15 years of Patient Rights," a moment of reflection "with a very interesting panel and a very interesting audience." There was one observation that this is a very important article but a very vague article in the law on patients' rights and that it must therefore be made concrete. In addition, there is the definition of what a patient file is and what should be in it. During the round table we also had a lot of discussion about this, especially because the complaints there are, the access to the file and so on, show that there are still a lot of problems. So you need to look very carefully at what you put in there. I have heard you say a few times that it will contain the minimum that should be in a file. In view of all that we have heard, it is very important to define this very concretely and carefully, because in practice there are still a lot of problems with this. I hope I understand that you intend to do so, because you have said that a few times at different times. You talked about the obligation of a portfolio and the function differentiation. Do I understand that what we now call reference nurse and such is included? Does a midwife who is also lactating fall under the functional differentiation and is this part of the mandatory portfolio? What am I supposed to imagine? You also mentioned Article 82 of the Hospital Act. Is there not a danger that this will become very static and that you will exclude the dynamic evolution, the technological evolution in which more and more things can happen at home or in the middle of nowhere? That would be a shame. I am pleased that the ban on advertising will be made more concrete, because that is really a problem in the sector. I have many examples of this. Do you also provide for sanctions in this area? How are you going to do that, because without sanctions, it will not be remedied. You also spoke about the quality board, on the basis of a complicated slide. I didn't get much of that. You will have to explain that more clearly to me. That was rather complicated, so I wonder if everyone will find their way into it. Maybe it's me. With regard to what you said about unlawful practice, I have a few questions. The examples you give, child caregiver and technician, all fine. I'm still in the head with the unexecutable Colla Act. Those alternative healthcare professions, are they, as I understand it here, all subject to unlawful practice? How do you see that? Indeed, we are still concerned about that. What you said in that context about the caregiver, I fully support it, as you know. That's a good thing. You say that we should not worry because the status of the caregiver remains. I must repeat here that this is still an empty box, that there is nothing in it and that I have great expectations of the Minister who made a number of promises there when my book was launched. The first time the Minister proposed it, I understand that the principles of subsidiarity and interdisciplinarity are very important. As far as subsidiarity is concerned, I have heard nothing more about the healthcare professional, the HBO5 nurse, bringing them closer together. The health care assistant, is that dead or is that gonna happen at another time? In the reform of the health professions, I have always understood that it was the intention to seize this opportunity for the reform of the nomenclature. This would be made easier and would include the gap between large and small producers or the re-evaluation of the nomenclature. Is there anything else you can say about that? Are those still the plans? What you said about direct access is also very interesting. I see a form of echelon ring in practice there, not in theory but in practice because you described direct access in that way. This seems to me to be an opportunity to do something already to tackle overconsumption. For the rest, I have not heard any more about this, while it was intended to do something about overconsumption in the review of the Royal Decree No. 78. Then I have one small observation. You said indirectly that communication is also provided for. In view of what we heard at the round table on patients' rights last Monday, I would like to draw particular attention to this. The communication between care provider and patient is still a major problem, and this must certainly be a prominent condition of the mandatory portfolio.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-14-54-commissie-ic617x.u25	Thanks for the explanation. I find it rather brutal of the previous speaker to speak of an empty box. I very much appreciate that the general principles in the new legislative texts are aligned and that the Chamber is given the opportunity to identify any shortcomings. Hopefully these can be remedied in the draft law. The reform of Royal Decree No. 78 is one of the major anchor points, together with the reform of hospital funding and of the nomenclature, which were explicitly included in the government agreement to implement what we are talking about very often, in particular a more efficient organisation of our health care. In this sense, we are very much looking forward to the reform, not only in order to achieve savings, but also, and above all, and often in a coherent way, in order to achieve a better quality of care. Today we see that patients often do not get the quality of care that is possible, because implementation is not optimally regulated. For example, nurses lose a great deal of time to certain tasks for which they have not been trained. The discharge of those tasks through the upcoming CBAs or laws will certainly ensure that the care staff are better deployed as the cornerstone of our healthcare service. In this way, we can also improve the quality of care provision, as well as the use of resources, which go largely to the care staff. We therefore support the general principles. It is, of course, awaiting the concrete texts before we can really go into detail. I have already asked a number of questions about this in the past. I am thinking, for example, of direct access or the certificate of competent helper. Those questions are also being asked in the field. The same applies to the group rule. I assume that this will be clarified in the concrete texts, so that the discussion can be conducted much more on the basis of the texts or on the basis of the general directives. As far as the coordination with the people on the ground is concerned, we in our group would like to think of this with a flower. They are fully involved in the implementation of the law which will regulate their care professions and the performance of their tasks. For us this is positive and we are waiting for the concrete texts, which implement the directives, to begin the discussion on the substance.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-14-54-commissie-ic617x.u26	Minister, thank you and your services for making an extremely explicit statement. The questions that I am going to ask you, with one or the other thought, are rather general in nature. What is certain is that the reform of Article 78 is part of the government agreement. It was therefore good to come with an extremely precise proposal. It is clear that this reform is extremely ambitious. The evidence is that the presentation lasted, but it was necessary to show the extent of this reform. The first question I wanted to ask is the following. What about the consultation with the various organisations that have been asked for? You have already answered in part, saying that this consultation had taken place or that it was still under way. What is important, as the previous speaker has just said, is your willingness to systematically coordinate the sector at all levels. Reform as such is quite delicate because, as has been clearly said, the "hierarchical" model is abandoned as such. This probably also means that all of this will have to be integrated into the mindset, which is probably not easy. We must therefore expect to have, in any case at the beginning, an interpretation that will not be exactly the one you want to give. I think we just need to be aware of that. It is very significant that once again, in what we discussed earlier in the Clinical Trials Bill, we find that it is really the patient that remains at the centre of the debate. I know it's your work pattern, but I don't think we're going to call it back enough. Reforms are under way, they do not please everyone, but at least they always have the patient as their priority. Aside from that, questions arise. The Royal Academy of Medicine has positioned itself on reform and has raised a number of concerns. The fact that we are going to be able to satisfy everyone in the context of a reform is a bit utopian, but at least take into account the opinion given and explain why we are not on the same wavelength seems to me to be a positive approach. Equivalence between the different occupational groups was discussed. There, on the part of the Royal Academy of Medicine, there is some questioning. According to her, there are very wide differences between occupations in terms of each axis of qualification. It is therefore legitimate to speak of "equivalences between the lines of competence, the level of qualification being highly variable according to the occupation in question". What is your view of this concern? Is it justified or, on the contrary, has everything been provided for in the scheme as you present it? How will self-assessment of skills take place in practice? It is a complex and delicate area. When it comes to self-assessment, of course, one must be able to identify the context in which one finds oneself. Do you have any additional information on this subject? I am also concerned, because the Royal Academy of Medicine asked the question, about the version of the King's jurisdiction to list medical acts that cannot be entrusted to non-physicians. That's a little tricky. If we push the interpretation to the extreme, this inversion could present a danger. Indeed, the principle would be that anything that is not prohibited is allowed. This is a small problem. Based on this principle, this means that anything not provided for in the law is acceptable, which, in some cases, and certainly in the context of medicine, could be a problem. Has this element been taken into account? In the context of visa control, is the envisaged control a peer-review? I guess you had to think about that. More generally, unless I am mistaken, the presentation lacks a chapter that refers to non-conventional practices. There may be a reason for that, of course. Do you confirm the will not to target non-conventional practices?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-14-54-commissie-ic617x.u27	Mr President, Minister, Members of the Cabinet, thank you for this speech. I have a question, a remark, and perhaps an open question. The first concerns patient characterisation. I understand this would be included in the patient file. It goes without saying that this will have consequences. The patient will gain access to his patient file, possibly from his computer, at least that's how I see it. That may be a shock to some patients, but on the other hand we must weigh that up and say that the patient is entitled to information. It is a difficult exercise and I would like to know how the Minister sees it. A second question concerns the continuity of care. I understand that it is the duty of the care professional to transfer all useful information to another treating healthcare professional in order to continue the treatment or, on cessation of practice, to a healthcare professional designated by the patient. How does this patient file relate to the electronic medical file? To what extent can the contents of the patient file be found in the electronic medical file? If the latter is the case, it seems logical to me that the obligation to transfer makes little sense. Then it seems to me that the patient who would go to another doctor should simply have access to the contents of his electronic file. Then I have a third, rather open question. Additional requirements are laid down for surgical benefits in non-hospital settings for the safety of the patient. I think this is entirely justified. Now hospitals often see how these surgical interventions go to day hospitals. This is considered cherry picking. However, one of the conditions is the conclusion of a cooperation agreement with a hospital. I think this system stands or falls with that. Does the Minister consider it realistic that hospitals will be prepared to conclude cooperation agreements with day hospitals?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-14-54-commissie-ic617x.u28	As my colleague Anne Dedry said, it is indeed important to improve the provisions in the Patient Rights Act concerning the contents of the file, etc. It is also interesting to have a system that regulates the quality of care and services, beyond the recognition and characteristics of professionals. Having said that, I would have liked to have a little more details on those famous grouping requirements that you have mentioned again. I understood that it was possible to prescribe to a patient several services performed by several claimants according to the diagnosis made. Thus, the patient could, for example, use a nutritionist, a physiotherapist, etc. That's what I understand when you talk about bundled prescriptions, but maybe I'm wrong. I would therefore be interested in an explanation that would allow me to distinguish between the group prescription and the multidisciplinary teams, which could also be located in the same place and perhaps form a particular entity - a medical home or a group of people acting in a complementary way on the same patient. I would like to know what is in the same register and what belongs to different fields. I would not like to see any confusion between the statutes and the roles. Since your timing is relatively fast, I would like to know how this will be organized. I understood that there would be proposals for new health professions. Is it in technical aids? On 28 September, some examples of these new professions were cited. You didn't mention it here. The first time we talked about it, there was the question of whether the so-called non-conventional practices would be integrated into these new professions. There is also training. You cited the Communities. If roles are changed, if skills are defined more precisely, it will necessarily influence the basic training of health professionals. How is consultation with communities planned? You will already have the laws passed by the end of 2017 or the beginning of 2018, if I understand your agenda. The same question applies to consultation with the Regions. Are all areas of confusion, the possible intersections between an aid relationship and a care relationship clearly defined for some providers? Or are there any elements to be considered? I would like further clarification. I understand, from what I have seen and noted, that it may be possible to take into account pensioners' doctors in the organization of guards or permanent care in areas that depend on the circles. Do I understand correctly? They would therefore be counted in the available forces to ensure this continuity. I have also seen with astonishment that, when you mentioned special provisions in surgery, you have specified that the surgeon is responsible for the actions he poses and their consequences; but you have also specified "the surgeon and the candidate specialist in surgery". Does this mean that the specialist candidate would have full responsibility when he or she is only a trainee specialist candidate? For the rest, it deserves to be read in depth because it is not possible to understand everything in a presentation.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-03-14-54-commissie-ic617x.u29	Mrs Dedry, we know that the law on patients' rights deserved to be there, but it can indeed be made even more clear. This was the opportunity to give Article 5 more content and to focus more on the patient himself. With regard to the content of the dossier, it is very important what will be available to the patient. The law on patients' rights also states that the patient's file is property. Then the portfolio. That is an objective question: what have I done? What am I capable of? What extra training did I take? What extra skill do I have? When we talk about competence, we immediately arrive at the function differentiation. That is an important instrument, which can be carried along throughout the career and which also reflects what the additional education has been, what one's ability is, and in which branches he or she and the route, after obtaining the diploma, has been competent. As regards the exclusion, Professor Vandewoude has made it very clear that these are only high-risk patients, i.e. those for whom, given their comorbidity and the difficulties they have, it would be dangerous to undergo certain interventions or treatments outside a hospital setting, because the risk of cardiac insufficiency and respiratory arrest is real. Advertising is now a problem. We have based ourselves on what was previously approved in the Senate and in the Chamber in the then draft by Mrs Tilmans, a former colleague of ours, belonging to Mr Thiéry's group. We have based ourselves on this legislation. Several Members have asked what will happen to alternative medicine and to alternative therapies. They shall not be included in the said legislation. They are also a separate part of the coalition agreement. Nevertheless, the pedestal law also applies to them. The law on patients' rights is also always applicable. There were several questions about the development of nursing care areas, and so on. This will be discussed later. There are still a lot of implementing decisions to be taken. This framework law is the start. After that, the necessary work has to be done on each individual appeal. As regards education, training and competences, such as HBO5, this must of course be discussed at the Inter-Ministerial Conference because education is a Community competence. Communication is very important. We've known this for a long time. In the field of communication between care providers and patients, there is a lot going on. This is also in the CanMEDS and also in the portfolio it will be necessary to determine how communication with the patient has gone. Mrs Van Camp, this is indeed an important draft, but I would stress that this is not a saving. The resources remain the same, only the way they work is much more transparent. There's a discharge of the duties. The aim is to improve the quality of care. The aim of referrals and referrals is to make normal action, which is often too slow or not. It is also something that we hear from patients in the field, that one person could not help them anymore but also did not refer them to anyone else who could help. There were also questions about the implementation. Mrs Van Camp asked what a certificate of competent helper is and what about group regulations and direct access. Mr Thiéry, as far as consultation is concerned, it is true that there is a list of three pages in the presentation. Some were met several times because this proved necessary along the way. In addition, the website in question offered the associations not only to react but also to individual providers. Some of them did. Everything has been taken into account and we continue to do so. With respect to the concerns of the Royal Academy, I do not understand the reasons why they fear equivalence between the various occupational groups. I have to review their opinions and remarks. Each claimant knows what his area is. It is only necessary to know who is competent for the other functions. It is obvious that there is a need for a subsidiary system. I've been out of the circuit for five years, but when I was practicing medicine, I saw colleagues performing tasks that didn't come back to them. It is not doctors who, for example, have to make the injections. It is up to them to prescribe the latter and it is up to the nurses to do them. I am thinking, for example, of oral care, an area of excellence in which the experts in nursing are trained. Excuse me, but experience has shown that sometimes they know better than at the time the patient goes on consultation, because there is a whole evolution in that. Everyone's competences will be respected there. The Académie Royale held on to the pyramidal structure, with the doctor above it as a sort of pharaoh, although it lay in the middle of the pyramid. Now we are going to the flower structure, the marguerite, as Mrs Fonck put it, in which the patient is central and, so to speak, the vedette. We will take into account the concerns of the Académie Royale. Since they have been around for a long time, that is a shock to them; I understand that. I have come to speak for the honored members of the Royal Academy and they regard this change as a revolution. After all, they have come a long way. We will certainly take that into account and, if necessary, explain to them what it means. With regard to the negative list by royal decree, as Koen Vandewoude specified, there was section 81 and we were never able to make the positive list. Who's gonna do what? And that is about not being allowed to delegate powers. That is to say, delegate powers to people who cannot cope with that power because they do not have the right education. And this is very important! One cannot delegate a task to someone who is not trained to do so. That is no longer subsidiarity, but that is the delegation of things which would certainly have a negative impact on quality. This must also be seen in conjunction with what is meant by the obligation to refer and the feedback. That needs to be read together. I am thinking of the job description of a midwife who works well in practice and who does gynecologist in childbirth and patient guidance. There it is well defined and delineated. But if, for example, a sectio has to happen, it is obvious that the gynecologist will not say: do it yourself. That's out of line. Then that will not work properly either. That's not just delegation. That's giving a delegation for something the midwife hasn't been trained for. Mr Janssens, as regards the electronic medical record and the patient file, we are already at 5.3 million electronic medical records for which an informed consent has been obtained. So there are others for which there is a consent. In the long term, there will be an integration of those patient files and the electronic files. What the quality requirements for outpatient hospitals are, we do indeed notice a proliferation of them in some disciplines, but we must be sure that the quality of care given there is the same as in a hospital. This must also be monitored, otherwise it will be dangerous for patients to turn to such hospitals. Some of those outpatient hospitals work very well, but there are others. Some of these outpatient hospitals come and go within a few years, sometimes a patient doesn't know where the care provider who operated on him when he disappeared with the northern sun. I know that certain outpatient hospitals already have cooperation agreements with hospitals or guards in cases of complications or similar. If it is found that a patient is not recovering or if the patient develops a complication or bleeding, the patient may be referred. In the context of a proper follow-up of patients, I think that is necessary. Mrs Gerkens, the law of patients is, in fact, still in our laws. We are very careful about this. Everything is done in the interest of patients with concern for the quality of care provided. The requirements grouped with medical homes should not be confused. But within the framework of the integrated care pilot projects for chronic patients, it is indeed possible to have a multidisciplinary team in which independents can find themselves to look after a patient. There is a multidisciplinary team based on the needs of patients. It can be different for each patient as needed. In medical homes, it is a flat-rate system to really organize all the necessary care, but in a flat-rate system. Is it still possible to add new professions, in the flower, in the new model? As you can see, the leaves take over the areas of care. The professions are added by field. If new professions are still taken in the law... If new professions are included in the WUG, the Law on the Exercise of the Health professions, with the necessary qualifications, they can be added to the magazines, and then there is no problem. They will be added in the sheets, in the domains. An occupation in the field of revalidation, for example, will be added to the sheet "revalidation". You have the leaves but inside there there are also subdivisions. For the time being, this is not the case for alternative professions, as the government agreement included an evaluation of the Colla Act. We are busy working on another project, which is the subject of broad consultation. The decision to include older physicians in the care system is in the hands of the doctors' circles. That is the competence of the doctors, of the general practitioners, where that has to be decided. Depending on the circle, there are exemptions for age, pregnancy and childbirth and probably for other matters, but it remains a competence at the level of the circle. Moreover, the organisation of watchkeeping services in first-line aid is no longer our competence, because since the sixth state reform, everything relating to first-line aid has been a competence of the Communities. The financing of circles also means that care provision must be continuous. So there must be someone on guard; if they are not elderly, then young people. For the candidate specialists everything remains as it already exists. Candidate specialists are always the responsibility of the intern at the service where the candidate specialist is at that time. If he's an anesthesiologist in training, he's under supervision. If anything happens, he'll have to call for help. If there's a complication, it's the internship master's responsibility. We're not gonna change that. That's the way it is in the hospitals now. There is already enough substance for changes aimed at providing more adequate care and quality care, knowing that it was also said during the introduction patients are getting older, are increasingly experiencing multiple diseases and comorbidities and should therefore, consecutively or at the same time, address multiple care providers. It has therefore been made with a view to the patient, but subsidiarity is of course also in the interests of the care providers. After all, we know that some people are also asked what they are not really trained for. There are some problems with that. These are, of course, laws that will require many implementing decisions. I would like to stress that the Council has a very important advisory and executive role to play. The Council will have to help for each of these care professions to put this into royal decrees over the next few years. The Chair: Unless there is still one intervention, I propose that we close our discussions here. Depending on the evolution, we will be able to set other appointments, either through bills or through significant steps.
