ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-19-54-commissie-ic724x.u1	Minister, welcome to your first presentation in committee. Even if there are not so many Members present, we will start with the questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-19-54-commissie-ic724x.u2	Minister, what a pleasure to see you in this position. I would like to congratulate you and wish you all to continue to work on the important tasks that your predecessor has undertaken, particularly with regard to the subject of concern to me. On 30 June, new rules for the award of public contracts came into force. They will provide more opportunities for SMEs and local artisans to submit an offer for a public procurement. A result of a dual European logic aimed at favouring SMEs and extending the framework beyond price considerations alone, the new rules require that large yards be divided into lots and add social, environmental, material quality and sustainability clauses as possible criteria to improve and expand the allocation system. Minister, my questions about this are as follows. What economic returns can we expect for our Belgian SMEs? Have any studies already been carried out by your department in this respect? Some argue that these new rules could lead to an administrative burden and increase the risk of bankruptcy for some small SMEs. I was able to read this idea in a few articles a few months ago. It would be good if you could give us some clarification on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-19-54-commissie-ic724x.u3	Mrs Jadin, thank you for your question. Let me also congratulate you on your new committee chair. This is an important and interesting committee that you will have to chair. In general, this new regulation on public procurement results, on the contrary, from a very concrete desire to promote SMEs' access to public procurement and to reduce a number of administrative burdens, which are sometimes insurmountable for some small SMEs. I am convinced that these measures should have a positive impact on SMEs. In order to measure this impact, the future charter on SMEs' access to public procurement, which you know, provides for a monitoring by the SPF Economy. This new tool will enable us to assess ex post the impact of the new regulation on this specific point. The Charter also sets out a set of objectives in administrative contracts with a view to promoting SMEs' access to public procurement. This charter will be applied to all SMEs. This means that for these administrations, for these SMEs, the markets will be more open than they were before. These two measures will therefore allow us, in the future, to have a clear picture of the effects of the new regulation. In addition, it should be borne in mind that the entire legislative arsenal adopted under this legislature on public procurement contributes to facilitating and even encouraging access to public procurement by TPEs, SMEs and independents through a number of mechanisms. Let's take one. The allocation on the basis of the principle of divid or explain reinforces competition and broadens the possibility for specialised SMEs and TPEs to access markets which, failing that, would remain the guarded hunt of large companies. In concrete terms, this means that we are going to ask these administrations to proceed through the setting up of lots. When public procurement, sometimes extremely important, is published, a small SME, a TPE or independents do not have the logistics necessary to cope with the administrative burden inherent in this type of public procurement. By doing so, by informing, by communicating sufficiently in advance the intention of opening up a public procurement, we will be able to give small SMEs additional time to prepare themselves, but also to prepare a work that will not be insurmountable, since it will be a matter of working not on the whole public procurement, but on a public procurement divided by lots. I can also mention the increase in the threshold of accepted invoices to EUR 30 000 or the use of the electronic system which reduces the administrative burden for SMEs wishing to participate in this public procurement. I would like to reassure those who, doubtless, inadvertently wrote in a particular article that this could lead to an additional administrative burden. Indeed, this will represent a much lower administrative burden than was previously the case with large public contracts. I have confidence in this system, which, finally, gives all small companies an opportunity to compete more fairly than was the case with large companies, which often, in view of the administrative burden, were, in a way, hunting public contracts, even though these terms are somewhat excessive. In any case, from now on, the door will be more open to SMEs and TPEs.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-19-54-commissie-ic724x.u4	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your very detailed answers. As you have said, the measures in question are part of an arsenal of legislative measures that have been taken since the beginning of this Parliament to make large public procurement more accessible to small and medium-sized enterprises and to encourage them to participate by making it more attractive to take part in them. This is a measure full of common sense. So I can only congratulate you, Minister. When we know that the economic fabric is made up of 90% of small and medium-sized enterprises, it is obviously a system that needs to be promoted. I look forward to the evaluation. Minister, I wish you every success.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-19-54-commissie-ic724x.u5	Mrs Jadin, I will make the assessment available to you as soon as it is in my possession. You're one of the MR parliamentarians who controls the executive most. Now that I am no longer here, you will certainly become the first parliamentarian at MR level in terms of questions to ministers.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-19-54-commissie-ic724x.u6	Debates of the European Parliament President. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: Mrs Gantois 19777 has been converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-19-54-commissie-ic724x.u7	Mr Minister, the introduction of the right of bridging for self-employed workers through the Law of 22 December 2016 was a major step in developing a favourable business environment in Belgium in general and in supporting self-employed people in financial difficulties in particular. In order to enjoy the right of bridging, the self-employed person must fulfil a number of conditions. In this way, he must stop his activity and find himself in economic difficulties. In this case, economic difficulties are demonstrated on the basis of one of the three ways described in Article 6 (2) of the Royal Decree implementing the Law of 22 December 2016. One of these three ways is to have a living wage at the time of cessation. We know from practice that there is a problem with these conditions. Before granting a living wage to the self-employed person, OCMW's would require him or her to stop as a self-employed person. In this way, the selfemployed cannot have a living wage at the time of cessation and can not demonstrate his economic difficulties in order to be taken into account for a right of bridging. This practice of OCMW's impedes the protection of the self-employed and the exercise of its right of bridging, which undermines the purpose of the legal framework established by the Government.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-19-54-commissie-ic724x.u8	My questions are as follows. Do you have any knowledge of this problem? What initiatives will you take to address this problem? Do you have figures on the number of awards of the bridging right in the first six months of the year following its introduction?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-19-54-commissie-ic724x.u9	Minister, since we have not seen each other since your appointment, I would like first of all to congratulate you on our new functions and wish you well for those skills that are obviously important to our economy. The Ecolo-Groen Group pays particular attention to this, particularly with regard to SMEs and self-employed people. We will therefore have pleasure in discussing and exchanging these issues that are dear to us. That will change us from the Committee on the Fight against Terrorism. We have also discussed a great deal, sometimes issues that are a little away from the issues discussed here. It'll be interesting anyway. Madam Chair, Minister, I, in turn, would like to ask you about bridge law. As you know, an independent person is not entitled to unemployment benefits when he or she is unemployed, even if an individual resigns to become self-employed. However, there is a system of continued insurance, i.e. voluntary insurance, which makes it possible to link the social security system of the self-employed with that of the employed. In some cases, self-employed persons benefit from the bridge right which allows them to retain their rights to health care and allowances insurance for four quarters and to obtain a temporary allowance for 12 months - 1,169 euros per month for an isolated person and 1,460 euros per month for dependants. These are new measures since 1 January 2017 that are supported by my group. Since its creation in 1997 and its adaptation by the Act of 16 December 2015 on various provisions on the social status of self-employed persons, its scope has been expanded. It now covers several difficulties that an independent person can face: in the event of bankruptcy, collective settlement of debts, forced interruption (non-voluntary) and official cessation due to economic difficulties (non-voluntary and which must be proved). Minister, do you intend to adapt this measure by the end of the legislature, whether it is at the level of the conditions required to have access to the anticipated allowance or its possible enlargement? Could you also give me the figures on the number of self-employed persons who received the allowance in 2016? Do you also have figures for the first six months of 2017? Is it possible to obtain these figures by type of difficulty invoked (bankruptcy, collective settlement of debts, forced interruption, etc.)( )?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-19-54-commissie-ic724x.u10	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your comments. Mr Vanden Burre, as you know, as well as Mr Janssen, the bridge law came into force on 1 January 2017 only. I understand that as parliamentarians you asked the question and that you wanted to take stock quickly. However, based on the information provided to me at this stage, I believe that we do not yet have the necessary step back to assess this important reform for the self-employed who have to cease their activities as a result of bankruptcy, financial difficulties or other difficult events (fire, collective settlement of debts). I'm sorry, but I'm referring to the lack of data in our possession. It is premature to decide on adjustments or possible adjustments to the scheme. We do not have sufficient statistics on the use of this new tool. It will be necessary to wait for these data before claiming to adapt this provision. You asked me for some encrypted items. I can give the following figures: 471 independents benefited from the previous mechanism - social insurance in the event of bankruptcy - in 2016; 458 because of bankruptcy and 13 for cases of force majeure (fire, destruction, natural calamity). Mr Janssen, my cabinet has no knowledge of the practice you are referring to in relation to the OCMWs. Moreover, the award of a living wage is not linked to a professional activity but to a means test. It is clear from the first available figures for the halting of the face for economic reasons that the right of bridging is granted when the applicant has a living wage at the time of discontinuation. However, as I said, these statistics are incomplete at this stage and therefore need to be handled with caution. My Social Integration Policy Cell has taken the initiative to inform the OCMWs through the Social Integration PPS about and specifically to make them aware of the existence of this new right of bridging and its conditions of granting, as of last July. With regard to the number of grants of the bridge right, especially for the "cessation for economic reasons" component, it is still too early to be able to have the figures for the beneficiaries in 2017. The statistics we have today are too fragmented and do not currently allow us to have a sufficiently precise perception. I commit to come back to you as soon as the administration has more refined figures.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-19-54-commissie-ic724x.u11	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I fully understand that there are still too few data to draw a real conclusion on the problem. In any case, it is already a good step forward to contact the OCMWFs in order to clarify a number of issues further. We are, of course, looking forward to the credible data that will be released in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-19-54-commissie-ic724x.u12	Minister, thank you for your answer. I also understand that you do not have all the information at this stage. I would obviously have liked to have obtained the figures for the period prior to the extension of the right, which took place on 1 January 2017. In this way, I could have had a clear idea of the frequency of the use of this mechanism by the self-employed in difficulty. In addition, I would like to know your intentions with regard to the continuation of the case. I will therefore come back to ask you about this.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-19-54-commissie-ic724x.u13	Minister, a study by a British insurance company shows that the direct economic damage resulting from a cyber attack is higher than that of a natural disaster of the size of Hurricane Katrina in 2005. For example, the hacking of a cloud service could cause damage to companies between $4.6 billion and $50 billion. In the most extreme scenarios, the damage could amount to 120 billion dollars. The dangers of cybercrime have been known for a long time. In recent months, businesses, hospitals and public institutions across Europe have been confronted with targeted cyber attacks. Our SMEs must also be protected. In a press release dated 14 July, we read that you are working within your competence on measures to improve cyber security in SMEs. What measures are you working on to improve cyber security within our SMEs? Which partners are working with to shape these measures? What timeline do you propose to implement these measures?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-19-54-commissie-ic724x.u14	Mr Minister, I am asking you my first question today. I'm sure there'll be more. I wish you a good start to the new parliamentary year and good luck. Cyber safety is an important issue today. I am glad that Mr Janssen has also asked a question about this. In De Tijd today, a whole article was devoted to European policies against cyberattacks and the increased use of the European Commission against cyberattacks. The European Commission intends to transform the European Commission's Internet Security Network into an ENISA agency. A lot of additional resources would be invested for cyber security research. Those are new elements. It is a good development that Europe too now wants to take much more decisive action against cyber attacks and to focus on cyber security. Cybersecurity and cyber-attacks should also be given more attention to SMEs. Indeed, 45% of all cyber attacks take place on SMEs. SMEs are often unaware of the risks. Often they don't think they're interesting enough for the cyber criminal. However, cybercriminals find SMEs attractive. For example, they seek to directly detach bank or commercial data or intellectual property or indirectly use SME debt instruments as a gateway to larger companies with which they are in contact. Cyber safety in SMEs is therefore of great importance. In May, the Digital Agenda Minister rightly announced a series of measures to mitigate the consequences of a large-scale cyber attack. For example, targeted information and awareness campaigns would inform businesses about cyber security capabilities and develop a warning system to alert companies about a possible cyber threat. Your predecessor also announced measures for the benefit of cybersecurity in SMEs on 14 July. I would like to ask you the following questions. What is the state of play of the measures announced for the benefit of cybersecurity? What measures are still in the pipeline to be rolled out in the long term? What's the timing? Our country still needs to transpose the European NIS Directive of 6 July 2016 into its internal legislation. This will enable a higher common level of cybersecurity to be achieved in EU Member States. The Directive includes reporting obligations in the event of incidents and new obligations for providers of essential services and for digital service providers. What is the state of transposition? Is your cabinet involved in this? When do you expect the European NIS Directive to be transposed? Are business organisations involved in this? Especially in the light of cybersecurity in SMEs, it is important to include business organisations for advice in the transposition of the Directive. To what extent will the Directive and the measures announced have a positive impact on our SMEs?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-19-54-commissie-ic724x.u15	Madam President, Mrs Smaers, Mr Janssen, the SME plan launched by my predecessor provides for a series of measures to strengthen the cyber security of our SME debt holders. In addition, within the framework of the May thematic Council of Ministers, the government adopted a series of measures which reflect the same dynamics. The aim is to develop actions in the field of information, awareness raising and training of SMEs on the threat posed by cybercrime. While 73 percent of large companies protect themselves from cyber attacks, only 28% of SMEs do so, which is dramatically low. There's another disturbing fact. While one surfer in three has already been the victim of a cyberattack, this figure amounts to 54% for SMEs. It is therefore essential to be able to integrate them into the strengthening of cyber security in our country, especially since these could be no less than 330 000 shops, to which some 300 000 liberal professions should be added. Several measures are foreseen or included in the scaffolding, both in the area of communication for SMEs and in the area of SME representation within the bodies fighting cybercrime. Consequently, my administration has drawn up a communication plan. That plan provides for a first point in the creation of a page on the website of the FPS Economy where companies can find good advice about cybersecurity. Secondly, it concerns the subsequent publication of a brochure on that online page on cyber security challenges for businesses. Thirdly, there is the creation of a graphic design for the information campaign. Fourthly, there will be an information campaign via the social media and the external newsletter of the FPS Economy to highlight the new page and the brochure for the benefit of the companies on the website of the FPS Economy. Fifthly, there will be a press release to draw attention to the various resources made available to SMEs to arm themselves in cyber security and invite them to read this. Finally, it is very important that an event is organised in collaboration with my cabinet with the aim of informing the public, the interprofessional organisations, the professional organisations, the Chamber of Commerce and SMEs about the need for each SME to arm itself against cyber attacks, to explain the reasons for this and the basic rules to be respected, as well as to inform SMEs about all the resources made available to them by the FPS Economy, the Cybersecurity Belgium Centre (CCB), the Cyber Security Coalition and the VBO. Moreover, my cabinet and my administration also ensure that representatives of the SME debt instruments are integrated into the Cyber Security Coalition Belgium group, where the public service meets the big companies and the academic world at the moment. Therefore, in February 2017, a meeting took place in my cabinet on the situation of SMEs in relation to the cybersecurity issue. The Cyber Security Coalition's predecessors were present. At that meeting, a first working meeting, organised by my administration, followed on 13 July, in which the Cyber Security Coalition and representatives of the SMEs and of my cabinet participated. The integration of SMEs into the Cyber Security Coalition is still ongoing. In terms of timing, all the above measures should have been implemented in the coming months. In response to the question on the transposition of the European directive, the Council of Ministers took note in July 2017 of a framework paper on the transposition of the NIS directives. The framework paper sets out the directives to facilitate transposition. The Centre for Cybersecurity Belgium, together with the Prime Minister's Office, is responsible for this transformation. Interkabinet meetings are planned with the ministers concerned. The CCB organises the technical working groups with experts appointed by the administration, who are involved in the transposition of the directives. The transposition limit, set by the Directive, is 9 May 2018. The transposition process is currently under way.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-19-54-commissie-ic724x.u16	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. The protection of SMEs on cyber security is dramatically poor, despite the existing dangers. You have highlighted a number of key points in the communication plan that you have drawn up and you have already sat around the table with the partners concerned, which is positive. You are also looking at the further development of the rules that Europe is imposing on us. We're looking forward to it. You will undoubtedly have a number of questions on this subject in the coming months.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-19-54-commissie-ic724x.u17	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I note that you will focus on communication, information provision, information campaigns and awareness raising for SMEs in the context of increased cyber security and that you insist that the SME sector be represented in consultation rounds on the implementation of rules and measures on increased cyber security. That's definitely a good thing. I also note that a tight calendar will have to be used for the transposition of the European directive. I would ask you, by analogy with your other measures involving the SME sector in terms of increased cyber security, to involve this sector in the transposition of the directive into national Belgian law.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-19-54-commissie-ic724x.u18	Minister, in a press release dated 14 July 2017, you assessed the implementation of the SME plan and the 40 measures included in it. One of the measures is to evaluate the possible introduction of a co-entrepreneurship contract. In response to previous questions on this subject, you asked to receive a study this year from the General Management Committee for the Social Status of the Self-employed. Should you already receive the study of the General Management Committee for the Social Status of the Self-employed in relation to the co-entrepreneurship contract? What advice does it provide? What measures do you have in preparation for the co-entrepreneurship contract? Do you have a timeline for the roll-out of the measures?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-19-54-commissie-ic724x.u19	Mr Janssen, as registered in the coalition agreement, the General Management Committee for the Social Status of the Self-Employed was asked to consider the possibility of transforming the status of a co-entrepreneur into a co-entrepreneur contract. Consultations with the representatives of self-employed organisations have already been organised. However, the analysis is still ongoing. During the work of the ABC, it quickly became clear that, in addition to the social status of the cooperating wife, other dimensions were relevant, whether they were tax aspects, company law or the various aspects of civil law. In my opinion, such a proposal should include those elements. As soon as the ABC evaluation is completed on these points, I will look at the various slopes that make it possible to evolve that statute so that it meets today's needs.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-19-54-commissie-ic724x.u20	Minister, we can only look forward to what you are going to do with the subject. In any case, we will continue to follow the dossier.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-19-54-commissie-ic724x.u21	Debates of the European Parliament 20015 by Mr Janssen addressed to the Secretary of State for Combating Social Fraud will be answered by Minister Ducarme.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-19-54-commissie-ic724x.u22	That was actually the same question to the two ministers. Minister, the NSZ is launching a proposal that any self-employed person who becomes ill or wishes to receive training should receive a monthly budget of EUR 500 to cover his replacement. The measure would support, among other things, self-employed persons who are currently not receiving benefits in their first month of illness. According to the NSZ, no tax or social charges should be levied on the 500 euro budget. Similarly, the replacement should not pay its own social security contribution. In a press release, the NSZ states that it discussed the measure both with you and with competent Secretary of State De Backer. My questions are as follows. Do you have any knowledge of the NSZ's proposal to grant a budget of EUR 500 to self-employed persons affected by illness or undergoing training to cover their replacement? What is your position on the proposal? Will you develop initiatives in line with the proposal?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-19-54-commissie-ic724x.u23	Mr Janssen, at the beginning of July 2017, the NSZ contacted my cabinet. We have a lot of contact with the NSZ, even this morning. During that contact, the NSZ formulated a proposal to allocate a budget for the replacement of self-employed persons who become ill or wish to be absent from work, for example in order to receive training. My cabinet has taken note of this possible exercise of thought, but at this stage there has not yet been a concrete discussion on the most appropriate way of putting this proposal into practice. As Minister for Self-employed and SMEs, I am, of course, extremely attentive to any proposal that allows us to support our entrepreneurs. This proposal from the NSZ also seems interesting to me, and it certainly deserves to be examined further, taking account of the budgetary aspect. I therefore have no objection whatsoever to my cabinet reconnecting with the syndicate as soon as it develops this track. We will then examine the possibility of developing a possible policy initiative in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-19-54-commissie-ic724x.u24	Minister, I take note of the fact that, if possible, you will develop a policy initiative if this proves possible in budgetary terms. We shall continue to follow it closely.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-19-54-commissie-ic724x.u25	Mrs Gantois has her questions. have 19777, 20031 and 20032 converted into written questions. Mrs Gerkens is not here to put her question. 20377. Mrs Winckel is not here to ask her questions. 20495, 20496, 20497 and 20498.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-19-54-commissie-ic724x.u26	Congratulations on your new position, Minister. I wish you every success. I could have told you that at the recess meeting on the fipronil case, but you might have had other matters on your mind at the time. I would therefore like to wish you a good start in your new post at the beginning of the new parliamentary year. I have another question for you about the Order of Architects. I've questioned your predecessor many times about that. Mr Borsus replied in July to my question as to why the draft had not yet been submitted to the Chamber that it would be on the agenda of the Council of Ministers in a few days' time. In view of the unanimous agreement of the sector itself, both of the orders of architects and of professional associations, he hoped to be able to present that project to Parliament in September. It's September now. I understand that it has been submitted in the meantime, but that this dossier has not been finalised. In addition, the Order of Architects is organising elections at the end of this year to install the newly elected Council by January 2018. It is not unlikely that any new composition of the Architects' Order would not like the agreement that was on the table in February 2017. That would be a pity because the negotiations would then have to start again. I fully understand the somewhat less normal circumstances with regard to your succession, but I do have some questions on this dossier, Minister. In the meantime, has the Council of Ministers been able to examine this dossier? Can you tell us how the work is progressing? Do you think you can submit the draft to Parliament before the Architects have to organise their elections?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-19-54-commissie-ic724x.u27	My predecessor has indeed made good progress on the dossier. The proposal for the reform of the Architects Order is part of measure 37 of the federal SME plan which provides, inter alia, for an examination of the extent to which the existing structure could be modernised and adapted to the current context. That measure also provides for the examination of slopes which should allow further professionalisation of the profession concerned. As guardian minister of the Architects' Order, I would like to assure myself that all the actors involved are on the same wavelength. Given the impact of a reform of a public body on the sectors, an optimal balance between the different jurisdictional interests is essential. Under these circumstances and given the scope of the reform, I have asked for additional information.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-19-54-commissie-ic724x.u28	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. The last part of your answer offers little hope. Of course, it is to your credit that you are drawing that dossier up and studying it to the full, but I fear that it may be delayed as you have asked for further investigations. In our opinion, this reform is indeed far-reaching, but, as I have already said to your predecessor, it is requested from the sector and is supported by both language roles. You yourself say that this is a modernisation, an adaptation to the current situation, a professionalisation. Since all parties are calling for this reform, I do not think it is Community. I therefore hope that it will not be a Community debate either. After all, it is not. It is a question of all sectors, on which there was a unanimous position and an agreement. We will continue to monitor the matter and thank you for your efforts.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-19-54-commissie-ic724x.u29	I have a small point to add. I do not need time to study the dossier, but I must make sure that all the actors involved are on the same wavelength. That's important.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-19-54-commissie-ic724x.u30	Minister, on September 1st, the Council of Ministers approved the draft law amending the Economic Code to extend the benefit of the action for collective reparation – better known as class action – to the self-employed and SMEs. Since September 2014, this mechanism was mainly used by consumer associations, such as Test-Achats. As we have already mentioned on several occasions, the Ecolo-Groen Group supports the principle of this measure, which could prove useful in crises as we have experienced recently. We have spoken extensively about the Fipronil case, which has harmed many small producers. The possibility of resorting to class action was also discussed in the case of independents, such as ING banking agencies which were affected by announcements of collective redundancies. As a reminder, this collective arrangement consists of a legal action brought by a group of persons who have suffered the same harm and who are represented by one of their own. It is therefore a simple and inexpensive group solution. Action for collective redress by SMEs will have to be taken through a representative of an approved group. Mr Minister, is the extension of the class action concerned with all SMEs without conditions? What "accredited groups" are covered by the bill and how will the approval take place? When can the first appeals be brought?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-19-54-commissie-ic724x.u31	Mr Vanden Burre, I am pleased that Ecolo supports this measure, which I think our country can be quite proud of. If you have followed the reactions abroad about this extension of the action class to the self-employed and SMEs, you will have noticed that our country is presented as a pioneer in this field. This is a request from the sector about which we have long wanted to make progress. The extension of this mechanism already benefits the consumer. The extension of the scope of the collective redress mechanism concerns all SMEs without restriction. Indeed, we have chosen to follow the European Commission Recommendation 2003/361 EC of 6 May 2003 on the definition of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises. This recommendation defines SMEs as follows: "All enterprises employing less than 250 persons and whose annual turnover does not exceed EUR 50 million or whose annual balance sheet total does not exceed EUR 43 million." Self-employed persons will also be covered by this definition. The choice to follow this definition makes it possible to go further. As far as the representative of the group is concerned, you rightly point out that an action for collective reparation must be brought by a representative. Such a system of representation is provided for in Commission Recommendation 2013/396 EU of 11 June 2013 on common principles for collective redress mechanisms. Such a system has been set up as part of the collective redress action for consumers. In this case, the mechanism is based on the system of representation of consumer associations in the Consumer Council. A similar arrangement is provided for in the draft law on collective redress. You see that we have been careful to extend the system of class action for the right to consumption fairly strictly. In summary, representatives of the group may be: - an inter-branch organisation for the defence of the interests of SMEs, with legal personality, provided that it sits on the Higher Council of Independents and SMEs or that it is approved by the Minister on the basis of criteria to be determined by a royal decree which will be deliberate; - an association with legal personality, approved by the Minister, whose social purpose is in direct relation to the collective harm suffered by the group and which does not pursue a lasting economic purpose. This association must have legal personality for at least three years on the day on which it initiates the action for collective reparation. It must provide proof, through the presentation of its reports of activity or any other document, that its actual activity corresponds to its social object and that this activity is in relation to the collective interest for which it is intended to protect; - a representative entity authorised by a Member State of the Union or of the European Economic Area to act as a representative and meeting the requirements of Commission Recommendation 2013/396/EU of 11 June 2013 on common principles applicable to collective redress mechanisms. The latter is intended to comply with Constitutional Court decision 41/2016 of 17 March 2016. As you see – I repeat, because it is important – there is a perfect parallelism with the mechanism of collective redress currently applicable to consumer law as organized by Book XVII, Title 2, of the Code of Economic Law. I am finally answering one last question you asked. The first actions can be introduced as soon as the law is published in the Belgian Moniteur. The bill is currently before the Legislative Section of the Council of State. Its opinion is expected to be issued in mid-October. After possible adaptation of the draft to the opinion of the Council of State and second reading in the Council of Ministers, the draft will be tabled in Parliament. So, reasonably, it can be estimated that the law will come into force early next year with, I hope, support that, like what you have expressed today, will go beyond division. Of course, we will have more opportunity to look at the project as soon as we can table it and it can be analysed in committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-19-54-commissie-ic724x.u32	Minister, thank you for this detailed answer. I do believe that the best way to proceed is to move forward on the basis of what is being done for consumers. As I was telling you, at the time of ING's announcement of collective redundancies, we had already argued with Minister Peeters in favour of such a bill, as far as independent agencies are concerned, obviously by having the detailed text. This is something important which we also demand and which is very much expected in the sectors concerned.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-19-54-commissie-ic724x.u33	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Gerkens' 20377 was postponed.
