ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-12-54-commissie-ic779x.u1	Secretary of State, my question was tabled in July. At that time, the social partners unanimously rejected your proposal to extend the working period of seasonal workers to 100 days in the agricultural and horticultural sectors. Despite this categorical refusal, you continue to give substance to this project on the ground that you would have heard different bell sounds. In your view, it appears that the current regime would not be in line with reality. Mr Secretary of State, where exactly are we today? You made a commitment to the government to consult the interested parties, in accordance with the "Plan for Fair Competition in the Green Sectors", put on the table by the Boerenbond. What is the content of your new proposals? Will they be more favourable to the agricultural and horticultural sectors than the current provisions? Has a comparative analysis of the various measures been carried out? Finally, since water has sank under bridges since July, what about the consultation with the social partners?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-12-54-commissie-ic779x.u2	Mrs Fonck, I have good relations with the social partners. We were able to conclude a joint agreement in February in the agriculture and horticulture sectors. We have thus demonstrated our ambition to simplify and harmonize occasional work in these areas of activity. With the collection completed after sixty-five days, I believe it will be easier to accept 100 days of casual work and establish equal competition among all companies in the sector. On 15 July, within the broader framework of a wage agreement, the social partners unanimously called for nothing to be changed in the system of casual work. At that time, my former colleague, Mr Borsus, who was then in charge of agriculture, and I felt that this opinion was not in line with the ambitions of the 'Plan for fair competition in the green sectors'. We therefore submitted a proposal to the government – which was rejected and therefore not included in the summer agreement. Since then, I have no longer communicated about this file, because I wanted to try to solve the problem. In the meantime, the sector was also seeking to harmonize the 100 days for some companies. Last week, I received a letter from Walloon Minister-President Borsus, who is very much in favour of expanding casual work following requests from Walloon farmers. It will now be necessary to determine whether harmonization is possible, bearing in mind that I wish to stick to the agreement that was reached by the government this summer. As I have just said, after July, I have no longer communicated and, if discussions are still to take place, they will take place within the government.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-12-54-commissie-ic779x.u3	Mr Secretary of State, I take note of the fact that you have been blocked on this issue because of the summer agreement. This is in line with the position of the social partners. So it's not just bad. On the other hand, as far as the substance is concerned, I think it can be approached in different ways. There is a world of differences between simplification and harmonisation. Mr Secretary of State, you should take back your pilgrim stick to work with the social partners who may have smart proposals to make on the measures and who are different from the positions you took and who were blocked during the summer agreement. So we will see for the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-12-54-commissie-ic779x.u4	Secretary of State, I come back to you to discuss something that has already been discussed at the time of your policy brief. The least we can say, when I asked this question, is that the information you gave me was, at least, blurred. For some aspects, you obviously didn't even know about it. As a reminder, on July 1, 2017, the ONSS inspection service and the Social Inspectorate of the Social Security FPS were merged into a single inspection service attached to the ONSS. You know that on several occasions I have mentioned the many perverse effects of this reform on the ground, relayed by important actors such as the auditor of work, but there is worse. From the information that is now coming back to me on the ground, these fears are clearly well-founded. As part of the reform, a large part of the workforce responsible for combating social dumping has been reassigned to tasks other than the fight against social dumping, without being replaced. Among the staff of the former Social Inspectorate were the inspectors/supervisors responsible for verifying compliance with the legal conditions of secondment, in particular in order to determine the applicable social security system. For Belgium, there were 30 to 35 specialist inspectors and inspectors assigned to this subject. For many years, the Social Inspectorate's services have shown, in many cases, that the legal conditions for secondment have not been met, so that Belgian regulations should be applied. Thus, many regularisations have taken place for these companies employing apparently seconded staff, but which did not meet the applicable legal conditions – resulting in the payment of compensation supplements and social contributions. Thus, in many cases, the Social Inspectorate has been able to put an end to situations of social dumping. According to the information provided to me, in the past, there were five specialist inspectors and a team leader in charge of combating social dumping in the Brussels judicial district within the Social Security Social Inspectorate in Brussels. The Brussels office of the Social Inspectorate was composed of 30 inspectors and inspectors. At ONSS in Brussels, there were, before the merger, two controllers in charge of this matter, seven controllers and inspectors and a team leader, dedicated and specially trained in the fight against social dumping. As a result of the merger, the combination of the Brussels control staff of the former Social Inspectorate and the ONSS brings the control department to more or less 70 inspectors/controllers, including two or three administrative support officers. But, of course, only two inspectors/supervisors and one inspector team leader are still involved in the fight against social dumping. This is therefore a two-thirds decrease in the control capacity in the fight against social dumping compared to the pre-merger situation. Do you confirm this information about the judicial district of Brussels? What about Belgium as a whole? In this connection, I would like to ask you for a clear overview of the number of agents specifically dedicated to combating social dumping before and after the merger, on a national basis and by judicial district.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-12-54-commissie-ic779x.u5	Mr President, Mrs Fonck, we have already had the opportunity to discuss this issue in an exchange of views on my policy note. Since then, I have inquired from ONSS, which has informed me that at present there are fifty social dumping experts for the whole country, with five specifically active in Brussels. In addition, with the reform of the inspection services, we have also strengthened the INASTI, which has six social dumping experts for Belgium as a whole, three of whom are active in Brussels. In doing so, the number of inspectors working in Brussels on social dumping remains at eight. However, a continuous monitoring of the various priorities is carried out. In addition, as part of our action plan to combat social fraud, monitoring is also carried out in consultation with the various departments concerning the different priorities and needs, bearing in mind that it may be necessary to strengthen different teams. We will know at the beginning of next year whether or not we need to strengthen, taking into account the action plan. In my view, the fight against social dumping remains a priority. I hope that the figures will show that Brussels services have not been weakened.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-12-54-commissie-ic779x.u6	Mr Secretary of State, you said that there were fifty experts in social dumping for the whole of Belgium. How many were there before the merger? That was, in fact, my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-12-54-commissie-ic779x.u7	Madam, I can just confirm that the services have not been weakened. An increase of 3 per cent is recorded, taking into account the different inspections. I would remind you that social dumping has always been one of the priorities of the action plans and this will still be the case in the 2018 action plan. Data mining services, inspectors, are not weakened.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-12-54-commissie-ic779x.u8	Mr Secretary of State, you keep saying that there is no problem, that the Social Inspectorate has been strengthened. As far as I am concerned, although there are many social inspectors, if they are not trained to be much more effective in the field of social dumping, we are going straight into the wall. That is what is at stake! Without training, the fight against social dumping is weakened. Experts dedicated solely to the fight against social dumping, including the recovery of social contributions, are now being reduced. You are unable to describe to me the general situation at the country level. I will therefore repeat what I have already said on many occasions: the government has chosen to weaken the famous tripod essential for an effective fight against social dumping. You have glorified the new system and yet there are fewer agents on the ground specifically trained to combat social dumping. It's a step backwards. I believe that this is the responsibility of the government. This is a serious political position which ultimately leads to increasing unfair competition which contributes to the destruction of jobs. As you know, every week jobs are destroyed because of social dumping, which is unacceptable. I therefore call on you to strengthen, as soon as possible, the social inspectors specifically trained to combat social dumping in each judicial district.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-12-54-commissie-ic779x.u9	Mr Secretary of State, at the beginning of October you started discussions with the social partners and representatives of the car wash sector in order to combat the too many offences committed in this sector. Indeed, the situation revealed by the checks carried out by your services is not bright. According to the press, no less than half of the checks lead to the finding of an infringement, in general as regards compliance with social laws. The finding is quite alarming, as we are also witnessing what could be described as trafficking in human beings. In addition, some enterprises move fairly quickly and, once dissolved, reappear under another name – in the same place or elsewhere – not to mention the multiple infringements of the rules relating to occupational safety, the environment or spatial planning. Secretary of State, is the sector open to your discussion initiative? Do you have any idea how many companies there would be in Belgium? Have you imagined a plan to identify potential fraudsters as best you can? You could use the data mining and data matching you just mentioned. I have found that you want to cooperate with the municipalities, which have many relevant information on what is happening in their territory. In this case, how will you proceed? Finally, do you intend to cooperate also with Myria on the aspect of trafficking in human beings?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-12-54-commissie-ic779x.u10	Madam, we have indeed concluded a competition agreement with the social partners in the car wash sector. At present, approximately 1,200 companies are registered. We carried out 72 checks last year. We found violations, sometimes very serious, in almost half of them. With the action plan, we are trying to tackle this problem. In the action plan to combat social fraud for next year, we have included more than 100 actions specifically targeting this sector. We have opened a point of contact for citizens. The collective labour agreement provides for a minimum gross hourly wage of 12 euros, so if you have your car washed for 5 euros, there is a problem. So we also asked the citizens to help us. Other infringements have been found, e.g. violations of environmental legislation or communal regulations. For this reason, our action plan provides for cooperation and exchange of information between the police, the judiciary, the inspection services and the municipal authorities in order to combat this type of fraud. I believe that this collaboration will lead to more than 200 checks on different types of establishments in large cities. This is also part of the agreement with the cars wash. This problem is very specific. The offences found are sometimes quite significant, in connection with a more serious crime. The fight against these cars, especially by hand, is part of the fight against major crime and money laundering.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-12-54-commissie-ic779x.u11	Mr Secretary of State, thank you. You answered my question completely. I am particularly concerned because I am confronted with this on the ground. Until now, we had the impression that there was little way to force these people to work properly. They compete unfairly with companies that respect our social laws. Thank you for the checks you're going to put in place next year.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-12-54-commissie-ic779x.u12	Mr President, I have two questions on the agenda. Would you mind if I put them in a row?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-12-54-commissie-ic779x.u13	If your fellow Members, Mrs Jadin, Mrs Fonck and Mr Daerden, agree, I can allow that. Mrs Jadin, Mrs Fonck, do you see a problem with Mrs Lanjri successively asking her two questions?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-12-54-commissie-ic779x.u14	Mr President, I only have to be present at the Bureau at noon. I think I have time.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-12-54-commissie-ic779x.u15	Mrs Lanjri, ask both of your questions. Look how accommodating your colleagues are.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-12-54-commissie-ic779x.u16	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, we all know that it is important to tackle fraud, both social and fiscal. In some cases, social fraud also affects living wages. In principle, people have to report assets abroad to the OMCW. This can sometimes lead to a severely reduced living wage or to no living wage. After all, those who have sufficient resources should not, of course, receive support from social assistance. However, it has recently been announced that the OCMW of Antwerp will appoint private companies to detect such fraudsters. According to the OCMW president of Antwerp in the Netherlands, this information had proved successful. However, research and reporting show that Dutch municipalities have been banned from this practice since 2015, as this is also prohibited by law. The same prohibition can also be found in our Belgian legislation, for example in the Law on Social Inclusion, which is the RMI Law of 26 May 2002, which provides that social workers are to carry out social research. In addition, the Royal Decree of 11 July explicitly confirms that these social workers must hold a recognised diploma of social assistant. So only they are allowed to conduct that social research. Moreover, social workers are also subject to professional secrecy and take the oath. The professional secrecy of the OMCW staff is regulated by a decree of 2008 as well as by the Social Criminal Code, in Article 458. Questions can therefore be asked in the proposed methodology of using private researchers to obtain information on applicants' state of power. Of course, neither you nor we are asking questions about the need to tackle fraud. Everyone, from any party, agrees on that. Abuse, including social fraud, must be tackled. Every living wage paid to a person who is not entitled to it is, after all, at the expense of the community and thus at the expense of others. Nevertheless, I would like to ask you the following. Firstly, is it legally possible, in your view, to spend part of the resources research on an external partner who may not meet the conditions of a recognised diploma, professional secrecy and swearing-in? Secondly, has the OMCW of Antwerp already contacted your services about this? What was the answer from your services? Thirdly, has the POD Social Integration requested additional advice from the experts and from the VVSG and the UVCW? If so, what was their advice? If not, are you prepared to do so, partly on the basis of that opinion, to come up with a legally binding proposal to obtain information on the foreign capital status of living wage applicants? I also put the question to Minister Van Overtveldt. He has pointed out that another legal option is the double taxation treaties that our country has already concluded with more than 113 countries. Administrative agreements must also be concluded for this purpose. Since you are responsible for combating social fraud, I have therefore repeated the question for you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-12-54-commissie-ic779x.u17	We must indeed step up the fight against benefit fraud. It is also a priority in our action plan in 2018. I am also pleased that OCMWFs are considering a means test not only for matters that we can check in Belgium, but also for business abroad. It is important that every euro we give through the living wage should reach those who really need it. I know poignant stories from Antwerpers who just didn't get the living wage, while others just got it. I think we should help them as a matter of priority. When the OCMW Antwerp launched the proposal, I did say that it must be clearly framed. This means that public sources must be available for consultation. That makes sense to me. To go further, a number of obligations, such as the law on privacy, must be taken into account. In addition, external partners should be subject to checks, and this should be clearly framed. That is why I asked Minister Jambon whether or not the external controllers should have a private investigator's license. That question is now pending with Minister Jambon and I hope to clarify whether or not inspectors of an external party should have the status of private investigator, so that there is a clear legal basis. However, it seems perfectly legitimate to me that the principle of 'as such', both at home and abroad, is whether or not a possible rightholder is able to qualify for a living wage.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-12-54-commissie-ic779x.u18	Mr Secretary of State, the main question is whether the involvement of private investigators is not contrary to our OCMW legislation. I don't think Minister Jambon is responsible for that. Did you perhaps discuss this with Minister Ducarme and the Association for Flemish Cities and Municipalities? Such a measure must be legally binding, on which we agree.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-12-54-commissie-ic779x.u19	I have another meeting with Minister Ducarme on this matter in the next week. That is one of the items on the agenda that we will be discussing, because, of course, he succeeds the OCMWFs under his authority. If I have any more news on that, I will let you know what his position is on this. We will see how together we can fight against social fraud, including from the OCMWFs.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-12-54-commissie-ic779x.u20	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, your predecessor, Mr Tommelein, had already started flash checks at the beginning of this parliamentary term, in addition to the regular inspections carried out by the inspection services. These flash checks are very sensitizing and, in our view, offer real added value in the fight against social fraud. Although flash checks are announced and therefore sensitise, it appears that not everyone complies with the legal provisions. Previous evaluations, for example in the cleaning sector, showed that, despite prior warnings for flash checks, one out of three companies were still in breach. It is therefore important that such checks should continue to be carried out and monitored. Three additional flash checks were carried out before the summer, namely in the cleaning sector, the electricity sector and the construction sector. You recently announced that one or two more social flash checks will be carried out in the car wash sector at the beginning of next year. Mr Secretary of State, to what extent can there be any improvement in the number of companies that are in breach of flash checks? In the cleaning sector, for example, several flash checks have already been carried out. Is the number of companies in breach in this sector now falling? On what scale and in which sectors do you want to use flash checks in the future? Which sectors will be the first to be covered and when will these checks be carried out? What lessons have you learned from previous social flash checks so that they can be used even more efficiently in the future? What action has already been taken on infringements detected during social flash checks? How many sanctions have been issued? What infringements are they mostly about?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-12-54-commissie-ic779x.u21	Flash checks have been new for a few years. The aim is to signal to the sectors, on the one hand, that they are controlled and, on the other hand, that there are a number of rules of the game and that they should be in order. The social partners have a very important role to play in ensuring that businesses are properly informed. For example, in the context of the flash check in the agricultural and horticultural sector, the social partners have given a lot of information sessions, spent a lot of time and effort to really inform the companies concerned. The results were very positive. We have seen a positive trend there. The effect is, of course, difficult to estimate, in the sense that flash checks are always announced and carried out by one or several services. In addition, regular checks are still carried out by the different services. It's hard to tell if those results are better or worse. I see that the number of infringements usually remains the same, but at that time there is an appreciation right of the inspector. Especially during the flash check-up, this is also done with the regular check-up.The explanation is also provided and efforts are also made to act somewhat coaching and accompanying. Since most sectors still feel it is important to maintain flash checks, we will also organise several flash checks in 2018. We have the moving sector in January, the metal and technology sector in March, the garages and car washes in May, the surveillance, especially around festivals, in July, agriculture and horticulture is again eligible in September, the taxi and transport sector will follow in November. The checks are always communicated in advance for two weeks, so that we still have time to put some things in order. Therefore, checklists are made available by the SIOD, so that everyone knows what to do. We also see that the social partners are taking part in action and are taking part on the ground. The evaluation of flash checks is therefore generally good. I have a slightly more detailed overview of the infringements during the checks, but I would like to give you this digitally, if that's okay with you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-12-54-commissie-ic779x.u22	Mr Secretary of State, please do not hesitate to email me those figures.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-12-54-commissie-ic779x.u23	On 23 October, Mr Secretary of State, you signed agreements with Slovakia and Portugal to combat social fraud, particularly in terms of posted workers. This agreement aims to put an end to the social dumping through which Slovak and Portuguese workers come to work in Belgium at low prices. The Belgian State has also signed agreements with Bulgaria. You hope to do the same with Poland. Mr Secretary of State, what are the main points of the agreements with Slovakia and Portugal? What is the status of the negotiations with Poland? Are these agreements complementary to the agreement reached on the reform of the European Posting of Workers Directive or are they pursuing another goal?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-12-54-commissie-ic779x.u24	Mrs Jadin, the agreements we have concluded with Slovakia and Portugal, and in the meantime also with Poland, mainly include clauses on the exchange of data between inspection services, on the joint analysis of fraud phenomena with a view to implementing a common approach to fraud and on joint control on the ground. In this way, we are trying to harmonise the tasks of the various inspection services of our respective countries, which are responsible for the fight against dumping and social fraud. In this context, we have already held meetings. For example, for Poland and Bulgaria, in March we organised a seminar in Brussels, with the various labour law and social security inspectorates of our three countries. We also met in Warsaw with the Polish officials. For Bulgaria, the inspection services have already met and were consulted in November with a view to implementing the cooperation agreements. The exchange of information is therefore in the process of being established. Earlier this month, delegates from ONSS and INASTI visited Polish institutions. More specifically in Slovakia, it was realized that there were a lot of mailboxes, especially in the transport sector. Therefore, the fight against this type of enterprise is very clearly reflected in this agreement. These are key elements in the fight against social dumping at European level. I still hope that a European database can be created. In the meantime, it is preferable to bring together the different services around the table and create an operational framework that will allow for better data exchange.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-12-54-commissie-ic779x.u25	Mr Secretary of State, thank you. I share with you the wish for a common European platform. In the meantime, I congratulate you on the agreements reached. I imagine that we will have the opportunity, in a year or a year and a half, to assess the effectiveness of the agreements put in place. I'll come back to you to take stock at that time.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-12-54-commissie-ic779x.u26	Secretary of State, we were talking about the state of the Social Inspectorate after the reform. I would also like to ask you another question concerning the fight against social dumping. In a very concrete way, in the end, how many cases of A1 withdrawals have you recorded for the years 2014 to 2017 for services performed on Belgian soil? Do the competent Belgian institutions – ONSS or INASTI – apply the recovery of cross-border claims on social security contributions? This is Regulation No 987/09, Articles 75 et seq. Could you give me the numbers of these recoveries for the same years?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-12-54-commissie-ic779x.u27	Mrs Fonck, in 2014, the figures were not yet available, because the procedure started only in July. For ONSS, the figure is 796 in 2015, 1,016 in 2016 and 408 in the first half of 2017. For INASTI, since the introduction of the procedure and until 15 December 2017, 158 A1 have been withdrawn in phase 1 of the European challenge procedure. 16 A1 should be added in Phase 2 and 1 in Phase 3. You know very well that this is a rather complicated procedure. I have already argued, together with Commissioner Thyssen, for a reduction in this procedure, which is quite cumbersome and does not often lead to concrete results. I answer your second question. Between 2014 and today, the Litigation Directorate of ONSS provided assistance to the other Member States in 311 cases, for a total amount of EUR 6 500 000. Applications came from nine different Member States. As regards the cases for which the ONSS requested assistance from another Member State in the recovery of Belgian claims for social security contributions, no figures are available. This was one of the cases before the Court of Auditors. This is why, in the reform of the inspection services, a "traject" was created which led, as part of the monitoring of the recovery, to a KPI (key performance indicator) for the services of the Social Inspectorate. For 2018, we will have figures because we are developing internal procedures with the various inspection services to be able to answer these questions. I would like to be able to answer, but I do not have the numbers at the moment. I therefore clearly requested a KPI from the various inspection services. I also requested follow-up to the Court of Auditors' report received the previous year.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-12-54-commissie-ic779x.u28	Mr. Secretary of State, you gave the figures. I'm not going to repeat them. I understand that, in a number of cases, the A1s are withdrawn. Then I note that you are lending assistance to nine Member States to enable them to recover a budget of more than EUR 6 million. However, I must also note that in fine, while Belgium has withdrawn a little more than 2 000 A1 since 2014, even though you are demanding from the institutions and competent authorities of the other Member States that they withdraw portable A1 documents, what is the point, if not to claim the payment of social security contributions in Belgium? I find this particularly challenging. It's 2017. You tell me that in 2014, there have already been 796 withdrawals from the ONSS side and you are still wondering why, in the end, this does not work in relation to the recovery of social contributions. This is really leaving the field open for social dumping. It seems to me that we really need to change our strategy. Cross-border claims of social security contributions must be recovered. Otherwise, it's no use. Then you have a sort of impotent virtual gendarme! If we do not recover the contributions at some point, we are obviously not up to the level of the fight against social dumping.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-12-54-commissie-ic779x.u29	Just a little answer. We're recovering them. They are just part of the regular and general management of the various files. So I can't answer specifically about the files we've been asking for. Contributions are being recovered. That's very clear! Procedures exist. I would like to be able to answer your question more specifically and to know with certainty what the recovery is for the A1s that are withdrawn. At the moment, I don't have the details because that figure is included in the general figure. It's an element on which we're having a fine tuning. These claims are recovered. There is no question of having no recovery. The services are doing their duty in an exemplary manner, but as the Court of Auditors pointed out the previous year, we must create, as we are doing now, the KPI for the monitoring of recoveries, more specifically in this type of case. On that, we agree.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-12-54-commissie-ic779x.u30	Mr President, I do not want to argue for two hours, but let me reply anyway. Secretary of State, I want to hear anything you want, but you're trying to tell a story. As far as I am concerned, I note that since 2014, you have been unable to give me any figures concerning the amounts that have been recovered while you have cited the figures for A1 withdrawals. As far as social security is concerned, there is a three-year limitation on the recovery of contributions. We are in 2017, which means that the statute of limitations for 2014 files is already exceeded. I would like to reiterate once again that there is an urgent need to know why things are not working on recovery. Indeed, if we do not recover, we find ourselves with gendarmes whose function is no longer even frightening. Finally, it is a system that does not allow for a strong and effective fight against social dumping. As I said earlier on another question, every week jobs are destroyed in Belgium.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-12-54-commissie-ic779x.u31	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, your predecessor introduced flexi-jobs. Last week, we discussed this with your colleagues as part of the review of the program bill. The extension is planned for retail trade and pensioners. I had the opportunity to tell your colleagues my feeling, which is that in this case, we put the plough before the ox. Indeed, we do not have an evaluation of the introduction of flexi-jobs in the horeca sector which would go beyond the quantitative study of the SPF Employment. Qualitative analysis of why, how and actual effects is needed. Mr Secretary of State, what is the status of this measure for the horeca sector? Do you have any results to share with us? If not, when will you be able to communicate them to us? Do you intend to adjust the system if the evaluation reveals problems? Last week, during the discussion with your colleague, Minister De Block, the latter made it clear to us that it was thanks to flexi-jobs that we fought against undeclared work in the horeca sector. Isn't it a bit reductive to pretend that everything is settled? The programme law states that the extension of flexi-jobs will bring about 31.5 million social security. Can you explain how you get to these numbers? Your colleague has not answered this question. Finally, I have just mentioned the first study carried out by the SPF Emploi last March. It was mentioned that the social partners would decide on this study. Can you give us their opinion?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-12-54-commissie-ic779x.u32	Mr. Daerden, in February, I presented a qualitative and quantitative assessment of government policy on Horeca. We found that flexi-jobs were successful, that motivated overtime would be a problem, and that the ONSS horeca reduction was not used sufficiently. In the meantime, after discussion in the government and on the basis of the various data we have obtained, flexi-jobs have been expanded and the regulation on overtime has been relaxed. At the macroeconomic level, over the past two years, more than 2,800 fixed jobs have been created. 4,000 full-time jobs were added as well as 2,000 full-time flexi-job jobs. The official payroll also increased by 152 million euros in 2016 and 34 million euros in the first quarter of 2017. Horeca's turnover increased by 3.8% and the number of customers increased by 5%. At the moment, in the horeca sector, there are almost 30,000 flexi-jobs active, which corresponds to an additional ONSS recipe of 18 million each year. With more than 130,000 fixed jobs, Horeca remains an important sector, which means that we must remain vigilant about the impact of our measures. The study of the Employment, Labour and Social Concertation SPF, presented to the social partners in March, was carried out at the request of my colleague Peeters. Employers were more favourable than trade unions. Meanwhile, the Constitutional Court has issued a ruling in favour of the government's flexi-jobs policy.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-12-54-commissie-ic779x.u33	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for the few figures I would like to have in writing, if possible. I note that the wage bill is increasing. I hear there's an increase in turnover in the sector. I'd be tempted to say I'm happy about it. I am pleased that the activity is expanding. Nevertheless, I am not sure that turnover is growing thanks to flexi-jobs. I have the feeling that it may be increasing because there is a general economic recovery but also because of the white box. This is what contributes to this apparent increase in turnover in the sector and, therefore, in a induced way, there is an increase in the "wage bill" aspect. I think there are links between these elements and a number of Horeca operators have resorted to flexi-jobs because it is an interesting system for them and the sector. However, as I told your colleague when flexi-jobs were set up, my fear, since there are no markers for either the employer or the flexi-jober, is that this will be done at the expense of other jobs, which are more traditional, better regulated in terms of labour law and which contribute more to social security. I fear that there will be a sliding effect or, in any case, that the increase will be more about flexi-jobs than it could have been about conventional jobs. It is not an obsession with the measure but against an unmarked measure that risks causing this slide. I conclude by saying that it is not because the Constitutional Court did not break the system that the system is good. It may be good legally, but it does not mean that it is good in all its facets.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-12-54-commissie-ic779x.u34	Mr President, Secretary of State, last Friday, the government approved your annual action plan to combat social fraud. The government statement outlines the five strategic objectives in the fight against social fraud and social dumping in 2018. It was also announced that the plan had been agreed by all stakeholders. I will make a few remarks and ask a few questions. We note that the first objective mentioned is the reduction of employer social contributions. This element had already been mentioned in the parliamentary debate, in a resolution by the majority of this committee. The argument was that if we cut social contributions, we paid everything, and if we set them to zero, it would be even better. It's a little reductive and it's like calling our whole system into question. To claim that social security contributions must be reduced to zero in order to eliminate social dumping is a purely ideological objective. It will not solve the problem on the ground. I wanted to repeat these considerations. Mr Secretary of State, who are we talking about by referring to "all the actors concerned" with whom we would have been working together? Secondly, I would like to elaborate on the subject of your agreement with Poland. You talked about it in a question from Mrs Jadin. What is this agreement? You mentioned an increase in collaboration, data exchange, seminars bringing together the services of the two countries. In concrete terms, which sectors are involved? Is it the whole of the sectors or some in particular? What will be the contribution of this agreement on the ground? What are your objectives in this regard? Finally, what are the steps that your 2018 action plan must take before it is presented to us and we can have an exchange on it in committee?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-12-54-commissie-ic779x.u35	Mr Daerden, you know that at the beginning of the year the Court of Auditors published a very critical report on the motivation and monitoring of the annual action plan in the fight against social fraud and on the coordination of this mission in previous years. I replied that I shared much of this analysis. In this regard, I have also tried to strengthen the coordination of the fight against social fraud, not only by reforming the social inspection services, but also by drawing up a more in-depth reform plan for certain measures. Last Friday, in the Council of Ministers, I had the action plan to combat social fraud approved for 2018. For the first time in history, such a program was approved before January 1. When I took office, it seemed to me very strange to find that an action plan had been approved in April for the current year. It therefore seemed essential to me that an agreement be concluded before 1 January. In my view, it is better motivated on the basis of five strategic objectives. In addition, the social inspection services, the ministers concerned, but also the labour auditors and the judiciary were consulted. The plan is based on input from the Information and Social Research Service (SIRS) and the various inspection services. Since I took office, discussions have taken place with inspection services and labour auditors on a biannual basis. We have regular discussions with the Council of Labour Auditors on the fight against social fraud. These views were endorsed by the Strategic Committee of SIRS, which includes the Attorney General De Valkeneer and the liaison magistrate Franquinet. The same was true with the social inspection services and the competent offices. As always, we have made an effort to hear all the stakeholders and to take their views and requests into account. The plan was finally approved this Friday in the Council of Ministers. It contains seventy-three specific actions that will be deployed nationally and internationally. You can find it on my website as well as in the government statement. If your committee feels the need to obtain more information and to hold a debate, I will respond to it because I am very open. I leave it to the House and the chairman of your committee to organise this exchange of views.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-12-54-commissie-ic779x.u36	Thank you, Secretary of State. I agree with you on the importance of approving the plan before the beginning of the year, whatever its content. You have therefore done well to present it before the end of December and to have it approved by the Council of Ministers. As for its content, given the importance of the topic, it will certainly require an exchange in committee. I therefore ask the President to include this in the agenda for the coming weeks. We could devote even two hours to a good exchange between us to see the details of these 73 actions programmed. At the level of consultation, you mentioned a number of actors, but were the social partners also involved? Have they had an opportunity to express their views on the subject?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-12-54-commissie-ic779x.u37	There is an exchange of views and consultation with the National Labour Council every three months. All actions undertaken are indicated and the various demands of the social partners are taken into account. It also concludes various action plans. Therefore, these elements are included in the action plan for next year.
