ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-06-54-plenair-ip178x.u1	The meeting is open. The meeting was opened.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-06-54-plenair-ip178x.u2	Mr President, Prime Minister, the news shows us every week that the terrorist threat remains significant in our territory. Fifteen days ago, an attack was foiled at Central Station. These new arrests followed, on the night of Tuesday to Wednesday, brothers Saouti and a man arrested in the north of France. They are charged with belonging to a terrorist group. An important arsenal has been discovered. Disquietingly too, uniforms and a gyrophare were found in the garage they rented. I would like to pay tribute to the quality of Franco-Belgian cooperation, to this netting and to the efficiency of our services. Statements from the Federal Public Prosecutor's Office raised concerns about an imminent terrorist attack. These comments were subsequently nuanced, but there was still a fear of a 22 March scenario. What do we know about these charges? Was there an imminent threat there? What kind was it of? The uniforms discovered give rise to fear of a specific attack on the law enforcement forces or a way of concealing themselves in order to better attack the population. OCAM maintains the level of threat and police forces at a level 2+. Is this not a paradox with regard to what could be a specific threat to our security forces? With regard to the statement by the Federal Prosecutor's Office, I can understand the fears of an imminent attack. This was known in the past when Abdeslam was arrested. At the same time, however, this statement may be a source of concern to the population. Is it not appropriate to frame this statement, possibly to qualify it or to communicate on the specific measures taken by the government to protect the population and prevent it from being attacked?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-06-54-plenair-ip178x.u3	Mr President, Prime Minister, I did indeed take note of the searches, resulting in good results. I welcome this and, also on behalf of my group, thank the detectives for their good work and the services for their efforts. However, Prime Minister, this makes us think about a few things. First of all, uniforms were found again. Whether they were real police uniforms, counterfeit uniforms or discarded uniforms, there is no conclusion yet. Maybe you know something about that. Anyway, it can't be that uniforms fall into the hands of people with wrong intentions. And then there's all sorts of things. In the past, I've asked a lot of questions about fake cops with criminal intentions. This concerns the citizens, and that needs to be addressed. In this respect, I refer to the recommendations of the P Committee, which drew attention in several annual reports to the obligation to collect and even destroy police uniforms in incinerators. The second aspect that concerns me is the problem of the weapons to be destroyed. A number of kalashnikovs and riotguns have been found. That's good, but these weapons need to be destroyed. We know the problem and have discussed it on a regular basis. These weapons have to be destroyed, but they don't go as they should. Where will the weapons that have now been found end up after seizure? I fear that they will end up in the basements of some courthouse, but will not be destroyed as it should be. The courthouses have thousands of weapons waiting for destruction, but that can't last. Police and registry services are therefore in difficulty because they do not want to bear these costs. Prime Minister, first of all, are the uniforms found genuine uniforms, fake uniforms or discarded uniforms? How will you deal with this problem? Secondly, what steps will you take with regard to the weapons to be destroyed?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-06-54-plenair-ip178x.u4	Mr President, Prime Minister, as we speak, the military coalition against Daesh has been successful. Mosul collapsed, Raqqa is ceding. We can commend the work done and the decisions taken by this government to attack Islamist terrorism also on the ground in Daesh. Unfortunately, the murderous ideology of Islamist terrorists continues to spread and to lead people to radicalize through a process that we are studying very seriously in the committee of inquiry into the attacks, chaired by our colleague Mr Dewael. Yesterday, in the night, following an agreement between the Belgian and French security forces, interventions took place. This happened during the night, so the majority's decision to allow searches 24 hours a day was a good decision. People were arrested, the Saouti brothers. Prime Minister, you have never hidden the fact that it was impossible to guarantee full security, but the work of the intelligence, security and investigative forces every day is to be welcomed in order to dismantle the possible risks of terrorist acts. I think what happened today really goes in that direction. Weapons have been found. Uniforms have been found, and our colleague has just highlighted the concern about finding police equipment and uniforms. We share this concern. Prime Minister, it was suggested that a threat was imminent. It will be recalled that on 22 March there was also a reaction from the terrorists. What is your analysis of the situation? Has the MACO reassessed the level of threat? What are the latest developments?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-06-54-plenair-ip178x.u5	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I too would like, as Members of Parliament have done, to welcome the extremely committed work of all our security forces, in this case in partnership with the French services, which, in the course of several searches carried out during a joint operation, has enabled us to discover equipment, weapons and thus continue to make progress in this battle against terrorism. It is an important signal that shows the effectiveness and determination of our security forces, but it also shows, after the various serious events in Europe, including Belgium, that we must remain extremely vigilant, extremely alert. It is the responsibility of all actors – the government, of course, with the security services – to remain extremely attentive and determined to act. That's a first point. Secondly, an investigation is under way. I should even say that investigations are under way in the context of the fight against terrorism. You understand that I cannot reveal here the factual details of these ongoing investigations. However, I can tell you that all means are mobilised from the various investigators, the federal prosecutor's office, the security services to continue to make progress in these various investigations. Thirdly, in Belgium there is independence from evaluation of the threat. That evaluation is the responsibility of the OCAD. This is not the first time we have had this discussion in plenary. I think that is a good and pertinent choice and I can tell you that the OCAD has decided not to make a new adjustment to the threat level. That's not a government decision. So, according to the decision of the OCAD, we remain at level 3. Level 3 is not an ordinary level of threat. Unfortunately, we have been living below level 3 in Belgium for a long time. Level 3 means that the threat is possible and likely. With regard to the communication of the public prosecutor, I would like to say very clearly that it was an answer to a question from journalists. What was the answer of the public prosecutor in this context? That is the same answer I have given a few times, namely that there is no zero risk. There's no zero risk. Unfortunately, two weeks ago we saw this again, with a threat that did not materialise, since the attack could be avoided in the heart of Brussels at the Central Station. And in the last few months, everyone has witnessed the attacks in Britain, Germany, France and Belgium a little over a year ago. Finally, two important points. I share the reasoning about the uniforms and the weapons. There is certainly a task and a responsibility for the authorities to work even more actively and harder on this. As far as weapons are concerned, we have taken a number of initiatives. Let me give you a few examples. We have adopted a draft law on the reform of the legislation on arms. In concrete terms, we have also taken an initiative with regard to the loaders. We want to change regulation and put an end to the over-the-counter sale of certain shippers. I should not remind you that we have taken decisions very quickly to strengthen legal means in the fight against arms trafficking. You mentioned the issue of judicial buildings. This is indeed a problem on which we must continue to work. You probably know that weapons that circulate illegally in countries like Belgium and France often come from the Balkans. We must, together with our intelligence services and investigators, be fully mobilized against the arms trafficking of this part of Europe; and we are. In a word, you understand, we are vigilant, we are attentive, we are at the side of the security services, whose work we welcome. I must not remind you that in just over two years, more than 200 convictions for terrorism have been handed down, which shows the intense work that is being done. Over the next few hours, the government will regularly monitor the situation, as we do consistently. At every moment, the OCAM, based on its information, is likely to reassess the level of threat. At all times, together with the Crisis Centre, we are adapting the measures that need to be taken. We're vigilant. We're alert. We're determined. There is no zero risk. The current level 3 is not an ordinary level. We will continue to mobilize to try, as far as possible, to ensure the safety of our citizens.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-06-54-plenair-ip178x.u6	Prime Minister, thank you for this explanation. Suspects are apparently still on the run. Weapons have still not been found, as there appears to be no link between the weapons that were discovered and the weapons sought after March 22, 2016. This shows how much we must all remain focused on the fight against terrorism. In this regard, I invite you to implement as soon as possible the recommendations of the Committee of Inquiry into Terrorist Attacks. You said, OCAM is an independent body. That's right, and that's so much better. That must remain the case. Nevertheless, the paradox between the level 2+ applied to the police forces, which seem to be targeted, and the level 3 applied to the population cannot be saved. That is an inquiring element for the parliamentarian that I am. Finally, with regard to the communication from the Public Prosecutor's Office, I believe that a communication which evokes fears of an imminent attack should have been followed by a communication, in particular from the Crisis Centre, to enable it to be contextualised or even nuanced, in order to avoid excessive fears among the population.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-06-54-plenair-ip178x.u7	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your reply. I see you're working on the matter. Of course, that makes me happy. I'd still like to give you a few tips. I would urge that the Committee P's recommendations on uniforms be fully implemented. I would also like to urge that more controls should be introduced when purchasing new uniforms. I'd definitely look into this. More specifically with regard to the destruction of weapons, I understand that the recognised arms dealers are willing to help find solutions to the problem. I certainly wouldn't refuse that outstretched hand. The destruction of weapons involves a great deal of expense. Normally the destruction is done at the expense of the sentenced person, but the costs cannot be recovered because they are not included in the list of court fees. Please work, together with the Minister of Justice, on adjusting that list of court fees. This will make the government a lot of money. Finally, Prime Minister, this relates to the status of the Trial Bank. I have put many questions to Minister Peeters, written and oral. There is a lot to change, because that institute is the only company in Belgium to put it so that it is not covered by the tax laws. All companies in Flanders, Wallonia and Brussels pay taxes. The Trial Bank doesn't pay taxes. That statute must be changed in order to ensure fair taxation.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-06-54-plenair-ip178x.u8	Prime Minister, thank you for your answer. We have all said it and you have also insisted: it is important to thank the security forces for the work they have done. Mr President, I come back to a point to close my reply. I welcome the operations that took place yesterday and the failure of the attack at the Central Station. Indeed, ladies and gentlemen, we must welcome the work being done by each of the democratic groups in this House to try to find legislative, legal and effective responses, but also to respect the rights of our fellow citizens and of individuals in general. The real response to the threat and terrorist crimes is here that it is organized, thanks to the democracy that is ours.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-06-54-plenair-ip178x.u9	Chers collégues, you regrette de devoir interromre les questions orales but I forgot to make a report.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-06-54-plenair-ip178x.u10	I have received amendments to the draft law providing for compensation for the staff of the Federal Public Service for Foreign Affairs, Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation and the persons treated as such who are victims of damage caused by exceptional risks abroad, Nos 2498/1 to 3. I have received amendments on the bill to provide compensation for staff of the Federal Public Service, Foreign Affairs, Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation and for persons treated as victims of damage caused by exceptional risks abroad, Nos. 2498/1 to 3. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 5 July 2017, I propose that the draft law be sent back to the External Relations Committee in order to discuss those amendments. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 5 July 2017, I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on External Relations for consideration of these amendments. The draft law will be debated in plenary today after the committee has discussed the amendments. Discussion of the bill will continue in plenary, after consideration of the amendments in committee. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-06-54-plenair-ip178x.u11	Mr President, at what time and in what room will the committee be held?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-06-54-plenair-ip178x.u12	It will be held in the Jacques Brel room. As far as the time is concerned, a text message will be sent to the members of the committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-06-54-plenair-ip178x.u13	Mr President, Minister, following on from the German Chancellor, Angela Merkel, yesterday you announced your enthusiasm for full employment in Belgium by 2025. This is a very honourable ambition that we as N-VA fully support. In my view, it is also an ambition that is largely based on the excellent results that the government can present so far in terms of job creation. The full feasibility of this objective can be discussed. It is clear that in Flanders we are a little further than Wallonia or Brussels. In any case, we think it is very good that this government does not want to rest on its laurels, but that there remains a healthy ambition to create additional jobs. We must be very aware that this will not happen on its own. We still need a lot of policy measures, and we believe that they are around three axes. Firstly, the further strengthening of the competitiveness of our companies, including the further roll-out of the tax shift and the much-needed corporate tax reform. Secondly, modernising our labour market with the key words flexibility and tailor-made approaches. Both employees and employers must be able to benefit from this. Very recent figures show once again that certain sectors, e.g. e-commerce, or a vulnerable group such as young people without qualifications urgently need to remove a number of barriers in the labour market. Finally, a reform of our social security system which breaks the strict separation between benefits on the one hand and the labour market on the other. Creating jobs is one thing, filling out those jobs is definitely so important. We must therefore have the courage to look beyond just the unemployed, but also at wage-earners, long-term sick people, and so on. I shall then come to my question. I believe that the forthcoming special Council of Ministers on employment and poverty will be an important moment in the process. Do you agree that around the three axes I mentioned can be worked? Do you have any indication of any specific measures on the agenda or on the pipeline? I look forward to your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-06-54-plenair-ip178x.u14	Mr President, Minister, we have heard through the newspaper that you have set yourself a noble ambition, a noble objective, in particular every Belgian by 2025. Of course, we Socialists will support this objective. I would just like to say, Minister, that there is still a great deal of work to be done to achieve this objective. As you know, the Flemish Government has abolished the target discount for young people and the long-term unemployed. We see that the economy is growing, but the jobs added are not jobs for low-skilled people. We have low-skilled jobseekers, but we don't have jobs for those people. We have highly skilled jobs, but we can't get them filled out. This means that there is a huge challenge on the labour market. Mr Minister, I also see that, and I have already questioned you about this last week, if we want everyone to have a job, then everyone must have equal access to the labour market. Today it isn't. There are several investigations that prove that. Young people, women, 55 pluses and people with a migration background do not have equal access to the labour market. So you can create as many jobs as you want, if you don't get equal opportunities, you won't be able to help every Belgian get a job. My questions are therefore very simple. It's a good goal. Sp. a. will support you. But how will you ensure that jobs are also created for low-skilled people? And how will you ensure that everyone gets equal opportunities? I read in the newspaper that you will conduct practical tests. When can we expect these texts here in Parliament?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-06-54-plenair-ip178x.u15	Minister, yesterday you announced full employment for 2025. Finally, good news from your government! Our group can only support this ambition. Employment is the most important factor for social integration in our Western world. However, there are only two methods of doing so. The first is destructive of social cohesion, a source of poverty. In short, the German or American method: precarious jobs, forced partial jobs, monthly wages at 400 euros, multiplication of mini-jobs to try to get a decent wage and I move on. While employment growth is strong in Germany, inequality has increased and 22.5 per cent of wage-earners have incomes below the poverty line. Is that what we want? The second method respects workers, wage conditions, cohesion and social consultation. I agree with you, it is not the easiest one to follow and it demands political courage. These are, of course, collective reductions in working time, reductions in social security contributions rather than corporate taxes, which favour only shareholders; elimination of tax niches and tax advantages such as corporate cars. I know, minister, the choice is not simple, but do you want to improve the statistics to the detriment of the workers and their working conditions or do you want people to have a real prospect of the future with a real job, a real salary and, above all, a real life? Therefore, you have the ambition to create an employment plan, but what will be the way you will follow? What will be your government's choice for workers' well-being? Will you choose the German method and the social regression or the development of the citizens?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-06-54-plenair-ip178x.u16	Mr President, Mr Vice-President, yesterday, as my fellow Members have already said, you set out a very ambitious objective, namely to help everyone get to work by 2025. Of course, we can only support this, together with all the other groups. If we had the employment rate in our country up to the level of the Netherlands, which is not yet full employment, we would have a surplus of EUR 4 billion in our budget, as Mr Van Mechelen said last week during the budget debate. If we succeed, this is not only a good personal matter for the workers, but it would also be a wonderful thing for the state finances. So we can only support you in that. I would like to refer to two interesting texts which offer a great deal of inspiration in this area. Firstly, two weeks ago we received the report from the High Council for Employment, a very high-quality report, in which the government also gets points about the policy pursued. These are positive points, because congratulations for the tax shift and a number of other measures will follow. The federal government agreement also contains a number of measures which have not yet been implemented, but which may lead to a higher employment rate in our country, leading to better state finances. Think of wage formation on the basis of several criteria rather than mere seniority. We have had a number of exchanges of views on this subject in committee. I also mention night work and e-commerce, discussions you do know. I also mention the extension of flexi-jobs to other sectors and lower labour costs, which will undoubtedly lead to jobs. In our labour market people between 25 and 55 years old, at least in Flanders, find a job very easily, but work for older people, young people, people with a migration background and people with disabilities remains an important objective. For the time being, for example, we do not have an employment rate of 45% for older people, which is 10% higher in Europe. Minister, you have the reports and the coalition agreement. There are several measures on the table. What are you planning in the coming weeks, months and years, until the end of this legislature, to achieve this ambitious objective effectively by 2025? We will support you, but we encourage you to step up your efforts to implement the coalition agreement.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-06-54-plenair-ip178x.u17	Minister, full employment in 2025. Wow, great, I'll sign right away. However, let us take a look at a previous promise. Let's take the coalition agreement for a moment. By 2019, this government would increase its activity rate to 73.2 %. Minister, in this government you are Minister of Work. What are the facts, however? Let us put these promises aside and look at reality. Three years later Kris Peeters, three years later, the indicators give the nude figures. For a long time we have been raving on the spot with an efficacy level of about 68 %. By the way , we come from 67.4 %. So that's barely half a percent more. Chapeau Good work, Mr. Secretary. We're with the worst students of the class in Europe. Europe is now at 71%. Three years ago, that was 68 percent. So Europe is doing six times better than you, Minister of Labour. The Planning Bureau, I do not think the least body, predicts a rate of effectiveness of not more than 70% by 2020. Then you promise, Minister Merkel... by 2025... full employment. How are you going to do that, Minister Peeters? The recipes for the last three years haven't worked. Half a percent and I'll still be generous. There is no prospect of much improvement if we can believe the Planning Bureau. We are lagging behind the rest of Europe. All we get is a minister who promises heaven without concrete measures. We've seen that. Ten years ago, your great example, your predecessor, your colleague Yves Leterme, would increase the benefits to the poverty line. Ten years later, that gap is still the same. So stop the campaign talk, just stop it. Stop flapping each other's balls. Start with a realistic target of 73 %. Then I'm going to applaud in 2019. How will you get that 73 percent, Minister? How will you make sure that vulnerable group finally gets to jail in this country? How will you bridge the gap between the low-skilled and the highly skilled, which is increasing?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-06-54-plenair-ip178x.u18	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I welcome the fact that the majority on opposition supports this ambition to achieve full employment by 2025, which technically means that we are moving towards an unemployment rate of 3%. I regret that Greens do not share this ambition to achieve this by 2025 and end up with the level of effectiveness, which is another dynamic and on which I am going to say something, but of which I take note. I hope many people know that Green does not share that ambition. (Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats) The question is also whether this ambition is realistic? Did we go over it? The answer is no. Of course, actions still need to be taken. We started from an unemployment rate of 8.6 % in 2014. In 2016, we are at 7.2 %, which is 1.4%. The Federal Planning Office predicts that we will go to 6,6 %. That is the realization of this government. That means that, if we continue this trend after 2019, we can still make it to 2025. We are also convinced of this if further measures are taken. In hard figures, this means that, in addition to the 216 000 jobs that we will achieve in the current legislature, there are 240 000 jobs to be added. With the same dynamic, that is feasible. Then the question is how do we get there? We get there by playing together, the federal government, the regional governments and the social partners. It is important that not only the federal level, but also the other competent governments take a step forward. I regret that some call it an unachievable ambition. They say we'll land on Mars faster than we'll make it. By the way, we've already landed on Mars, but that professor didn't understand. The pertinent question is, of course, how we will achieve this. What additional measures should be taken? (...): (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-06-54-plenair-ip178x.u19	Then she should have rephrased it. I would like to make it quite clear that in the next few weeks a number of measures will be proposed by myself at the Council of Ministers. The Council of Ministers will, of course, decide on this. I will give a brief overview of what I have prepared and propose to the Council of Ministers: one, a reduction in the burden on the construction, e-commerce, transport and inland waterway transport, two, the fight against social dumping, three, the creation of a special framework for e-commerce, the trial period and employment of young people, mystery calls and the strengthening of diversity, the promotion of dual learning and the possibility of student labour, catering overtime, workable work and the fight against burn-out and work pay by further implementing the tax shift. These proposals will be submitted to my fellow Members in the next few days and weeks with a view to making progress. I've been waiting for the social partners in certain cases. Time is up, and I will now take responsibility for myself. (Applause)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-06-54-plenair-ip178x.u20	Minister, I am very pleased that you also think there is much work to be done and that you will be discussing a list of concrete proposals in the near future. You will find a good partner in the N-VA, perhaps also a creative partner, in order to achieve the objective of higher employment. However, I would like to stress once again that this must be a coherent package of measures in different areas of competence, with some fear of cold water from time to time. Everyone will have to be prepared to leave the trails that have already been walked. After all, we will not make any progress if the reduction in unemployment rates in a system of communicating vessels is offset by an increase in, for example, wage-earners, bridge-retired people and long-term sick people. The increased employment should therefore also lead to a higher level of effectiveness. You were right to do so, but it seems that not everyone realizes that difference. Overall, more people need to work longer. If we succeed, it will not only lead to a healthier economy and more prosperity, it will also guarantee the sustainability of our social security.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-06-54-plenair-ip178x.u21	Thank you for your reply, Minister. I have already told you that the sp.a will support you in achieving your great objective. In your list, you also quoted the mystery calls. I read in the newspaper what the other parties say about it. Certain parties have already mentioned this. So you make a promise in the paper before you have an agreement within your own government. Minister, I very much hope that you will succeed, because if we consider it important to have a job and if we all agree that a job is the first step to help people out of poverty, then we will have to succeed in giving everyone equal opportunities. However, we must also succeed in giving everyone a full job. You made your mustard in Germany. Well, one in ten Germans is working below the poverty line today. I heard several of your fellow Members say that we need to introduce more flexi-jobs. I would argue, Minister, that you should also call for genuinely full-fledged jobs, with equal opportunities for all. Then you will have the sp.a at your side.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-06-54-plenair-ip178x.u22	Mr President, Minister, every political party has that ambition. But this is not a problem of majority and opposition, as you claim! It's a choice of society. You make the choice of flexi-job, of precarious employment, and this is also evident in the fight against social dumping. You missed a wonderful opportunity to really do something. You've been told! We have tabled amendments, we have been constructive and you have completely missed them. I believe that you will not be able, with slogans, to make the public believe that you are working for their well-being, for a safety job, for a job that allows them to have an objective in life. You are, here, purely and simply in the slogan. We'll see you again on the content of your actions!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-06-54-plenair-ip178x.u23	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your answer, which I think is very good. You refute the things that have been said. As the Minister of Information in Iraq said at the time, There are no Americans in Baghdad, some here claim that there are no additional jobs in our country. We must be able to say that nothing improves after the Planning Bureau has calculated that 200 000 jobs will be added. I think that's punishment. I am therefore pleased that you are taking some of our recipes with you to the Council of Ministers in a balanced way. Mr Van Quickenborne and I have presented today 12 works that can inspire you. We will continue to do so and we are pleased that you are proposing a balanced framework. As you said, you will need the regions. That's exactly right. When we look at the labour market in our country, we see enormous regional differences. I would like to add one more, in addition to the package you mentioned, which is to make an interesting package for those who live in regions with a lot of unemployment, to attract them to regions that need labour. In South-West Flanders and other provinces there is a need for labour. We will not be able to achieve our growth unless these people join us, so put together an interesting package with the regional ministers. Continue with the law in force, continue with the social partners if possible and without it if not possible. We will support you to boost the employment rate.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-06-54-plenair-ip178x.u24	Mr President, Minister, I find it a little faint. I have just begun by saying that we consider this ambition to be so important that we regard it as an incredibly important objective. That's why I got so angry, because it doesn't look good. That efficiency rate doesn't look good. We're gonna stick around on the spot. The question is whether all these measures are not just promises again. It is only a question of whether the government will be able to implement all these measures effectively. It's just a question of whether that's gonna work. For the past three years, that hasn't been so great. It's just a question of whether you'll get that percent. I suggest that you only start dreaming of 2025 when you make it to 73.2% in 2019.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-06-54-plenair-ip178x.u25	Minister, I will link directly to the previous question. If jobs are created, what kind of jobs are they? The ONSS statistics for the past two years show that full-time jobs have increased by 1.1% and temporary jobs and limited benefits by 16.7%! The PTB recently conducted a study on the abuse of temporary workers in companies with more than 250 workers. While temporary work is normally limited by specific criteria laid down by law, in the top 100 companies that employ the most temporary workers, more or less one in four workers is a temporary worker. In the top 20, we're 40% temporary! The number one in our ranking, B-Connected, is a Brussels call center. In this company, 75 fixed workers worked 100,000 hours and 207 temporary workers worked 400,000 hours, or four times more. The percentage is 80% of temporary workers in this company. It is no wonder that there was a strike last May to complain about working conditions and in particular that workers are desperately waiting for an indefinite contract that never happens. Minister, I am pleased to note that you have responded to our study. I quote the dispatch Belga: "The Minister instructed the SPF Emploi to examine in depth the use of the acting contract." The bullet is in the SPF Economy camp. Minister, can you tell me the content of this mission? What do the terms "consider in depth" mean? What exactly will the FPS Economy have to do? In general, what measures do you intend to take to stem this abuse of temporary work?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-06-54-plenair-ip178x.u26	Mr Van Hees, I shall be brief, but I also hope very clearly. Temporary work is temporary work and cannot be used to replace permanent employment. In this context, the Collective Labour Agreement (CCT) No. 108, concerning temporary and temporary work, concluded on 16 July 2013 within the National Labour Council is very important. I can inform you that I have summoned the social partners in order to obtain more clarity on the application of CTC No 108. It has been agreed that the discussions will begin before the parliamentary holidays this summer and that they will lead to a clear report by the end of this year. In addition, for some time now, I have commissioned the Directorate of Social Law Control to conduct an in-depth investigation into the use of temporary workers. I hope that, by the end of 2017, I will have the report of the social partners and the results of the Monitoring of Social Laws. I will then react if necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-06-54-plenair-ip178x.u27	Minister, thank you for your encouraging answers. It is not often that we have the opportunity to say it! I hope, of course, that this will not only be a study and discussion, but that concrete measures will be implemented. The PTB drafted an anti-abuse plan. It contains six measures: 1. Strengthening control. You're saying it's going to happen. 2. A strengthening of the sanctions because I believe they are necessary. 3. A maximum limit on successive daily contracts; this is also important. 4. The abolition of acting as a trial period. 5. A maximum percentage of temporary workers in enterprises, which should be negotiated by sector. If the social partners discuss the issue, this proposal could be taken into account. 6. Make the temporary replacement of a registered worker, to know precisely which temporary worker replaces which fixed worker for a limited period of time.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-06-54-plenair-ip178x.u28	Minister, you indicated in the media, and today in the Chamber, that you will introduce mystery calls, giving social inspectors the power to pretend to be an employee. You refer to a resolution adopted here in 2015. I too voted in favour of this resolution because, according to this resolution, self-regulation is first used. I believe that no one in this semi-round is in favour of discrimination in the labour market. I regret, however, that you, as a man of the social dialogue, did not listen to the social partners who asked for some more time. After all, self-regulation has been proven to work. Look at the Flemish service cheque sector. There are also practical tests, with the difference that these are organized by the sector itself. Self-regulation by the sector. I took note of the resolution on the mystery calls. The resolution states that targeted checks can, as a final step in a process, be carried out in the context of a judicial investigation. When one speaks of a judicial investigation, I assume that this is being conducted under the direction of an investigative judge. In the French version, however, there is something different and so there is something for everyone. That is where the word "instruction" is used, which is a very broad term and simply refers to an investigation. Mr. Secretary, what exactly are you trying to achieve with the mystery calls? Do you want them to lead to legal proceedings? What does the Council of State say? The Council of State says this can be done, but there must be no temptation. But I'm afraid you'll get stuck. After all, the European Court of Human Rights says quite clearly that there is entrapment when inspectors do more than merely passively observe. I come to my specific questions. What resolution do you follow, the French language or the Dutch language? What interpretation do you follow? Do you want self-regulation? Do you want tests carried out by social inspectors? Or do you want those mystery calls to take place as part of a judicial investigation?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-06-54-plenair-ip178x.u29	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Wouters, should there be any discussion about the resolution, please address those who negotiated and signed the resolution. I was not aware of any difference between the French text and the Dutch text, but that may be secondary. Indeed, I will continue to be firmly committed to self-regulation. There is no ambiguity about this either in the resolution or in my head. We need to focus on self-regulation, we need to tackle matters at sectoral level. The resolution gives two years to organise this. I have made a great deal of efforts to reach an agreement in the service cheque sector. I have written to all the other sectors several times to follow that example, but unfortunately without much result. I do not blame you for not knowing the proposal I have formulated, but I can assure you that it contains very clear conditions and frameworks. Let me give you some examples. The call must be carried out by a social inspector who is bound by professional secrecy; there is evidence of it in the file; there must be no entrapment; there must be no proactive detectives; and the inspector must not respect Article 20 of the Social Criminal Code. In the meantime, a number of opinions have come in. Firstly, the opinion of the National Labour Council, to which you referred. You say it takes more time. I understand that, and I find it very touching that you are asking me to give more time to the social partners, that they might get out of it. Even more important is the opinion of the experts on social criminal law, on the draft law. In addition, an evaluation committee has examined federal legislation to combat discrimination. I quote that committee: "The Committee recommends in particular that consideration be given to the granting of the Labour Inspectorate the explicit legal power to carry out self-targeted checks, by means of practical tests, where appropriate, on the basis of mysterycalls." That's the committee's advice. Finally, and this is very important, this morning the Brussels Government approved an order which states exactly what is included in our proposal. So the Brussels Government has taken the lead here and has introduced the mystery call, for which I will also argue in the government. The conditions and discussions will be further clarified there.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-06-54-plenair-ip178x.u30	Thank you, Minister, for your detailed reply. Of course, nothing must be avoided in this case. I am thinking, for example, of the case-law relating to the European Convention on Human Rights, which warns against such measures because there is no right to provoke them. You yourself mentioned self-regulation in the sector. I insist that we should focus more on self-regulation because I believe that this is the most efficient way. With this legislation, you might run into a wall. I therefore hope that this majority will examine the opinions in detail and ensure that no law is passed here that does not require implementing decisions. You may be able to say that you wanted to solve the problem, but the problem will be far from solved. Therefore, continue to focus on self-regulation.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-06-54-plenair-ip178x.u31	Mr President, last week in Birmingham, England, the Borgerhout imam Tarik Ibn Ali, Tarik Chadlioui was arrested at the request of the Spanish Government following an international arrest warrant. Strange, not the arrest, which I find entirely justified. I have been calling for this for ten years in my own country, which has never happened. It is remarkable that the person concerned has been able to preach in our country during the Ramadan period without any reservations from our government. He could have done that in Verviers. He could have done that in Hofstade. He has been able to do this twice in my own city of Antwerp, in Borgerhout and Antwerp-Noord in various mosques. This has been pointed out by the government, among other things by my party. There was no response. Now there is a firm action, albeit not by our government, but by the British and Spanish authorities on the basis of a rather heavy case: involvement in ISIS, inciting terror, leading a terrorist cell in Spain, in Mallorca. A long laundry list of all kinds of jihadist, salafistic facts, which are known. They've been repeated many times in the media. My question to you is simple. Why didn't we do this? Why has he been able to do his thing in our country undisturbed, for many years, until a few weeks, coming from Birmingham, to come here and preach and cause unrest? Why has our country never acted on this matter? How long has this international arrest warrant been around? Did Spain also ask our country to extradite the man when he would be on our territory? In short, why have we not done what the Spanish and British authorities can and want to do?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-06-54-plenair-ip178x.u32	Mr President, Mr Dewinter, it is of course not that we did not know the person concerned and did not follow them. Since 2008, he has been included in the joint information box, the joint database of our security services, a mixed database for hate preachers. His file was discussed in the framework of the Plan R working group. He was actively followed by the intelligence services but in our country his discourse, his salafistic discourse, according to the services so far did not give rise to criminal offences. That said, he was wanted by the Spanish services and moved to Birmingham a while ago. He did indeed return to our country on an irregular basis. You will understand that I cannot provide information within the framework of this Parliament on the reasons why the Spaniards requested his arrest in Birmingham. It should convince you of the seriousness of our services that they have had him on the radar since 2008. Recently, we have also made a letter about Hatepropagandists and at the moment we have a KB in the pipeline for perfecting the database. However, the Spanish services had reasons which we apparently did not have and which led to his arrest. May I point out, however, that there has been very good cooperation between the various services? I have a full report from the services, but I cannot, of course, tell you that.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-06-54-plenair-ip178x.u33	Minister, it's a well-known story, we had him on radar but we had no reason to intervene. Apparently, other countries do. Yet he has lived here until 2010 and has frequently engaged in his jihadist, salafistic activities, including in Borgerhout, of which I personally know him. Minister, that reminds me of a similar dossier, that of the leader of Sharia4Belgium, who was able to move freely for many years and carry out his activities in our country. There was no action against that either. They had him on the radar, too, and he must have been on a lot of lists. He must have been followed in everything he did. However, it was only when it was already far too late and at that time it was irretrievably suffering to so many people, as a result of attacks that the person was recruited and actively engaged in. There are indeed parallels between the two dossiers. I'm not going into the technicality of the file, because I don't know it. A question that has not been answered, I would like to put again to you, namely the question since when the international arrest warrant was issued. Was that at the time when the man in our country preached in Verviers, in Hofstade, in Borgerhout and in Antwerp-North, or was it not there then?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-06-54-plenair-ip178x.u34	Mr President, Minister, 900 children and young people are treated every year in daily hospitals, children's psychiatry and general hospitals in our country. Unfortunately, this is a growing group of children and young people with very serious problems such as psychosis, trauma complications, self-injury and suicidal behaviour. For years now, it has been complained that these young people cannot receive treatment or are only far too late. The waiting period is on average 1 year. 365 days a child or a younger child with such problems must wait before treatment can begin! And what do you do, Madam Secretary? Firstly, you are gradually halving the therapeutic framework through new, adapted staff standards. Secondly, you are changing the rules of the game on the way, without consulting the sector and the state ministers. Thirdly, you are also suggesting that they would have double funding through the infamous evening performance, when they have been saying for years that they have been underfunded. Colleagues, what are the consequences of this? In Flanders this means 141 places that will not be realized, because the hospitals will not do it because of the reduced funding. Furthermore, waiting lists will become even longer, which will ultimately lead to more crisis relief, longer recovery and ultimately more expensive invoices. Madam Minister, there is a great need for good, adapted care for these vulnerable children and young people. This touches the core of our welfare state. While the majority in the Flemish Parliament apparently considers this issue less important and prefers to discuss how to prepare our Belgian fries, this is an absolute priority for me and my group. Are you prepared to listen to the sector and consult with it, which has not happened or at least not done enough? Are you prepared to keep the royal decision on hold for as long as it takes? Do you agree with me that children's psychiatry should receive transparent funding and clear criteria in the future?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-06-54-plenair-ip178x.u35	Mrs Dedry, thank you for the somewhat too long question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-06-54-plenair-ip178x.u36	Mr President, Minister, the needs are high; the interest of this government is low. Thus, the situation of youth psychiatry in our country could be described. On Monday we woke up with half the resources for day care for children and young people in mental distress and with the justified shock of parents and the sector in response to this measure. This morning we read in the newspaper that teenagers have to spend the night in prison because there is no room in psychiatric clinics or in youth care. That has happened 29 times in Antwerp alone in a year. That number is increasing compared to previous years. Madam Minister, there will be a half cut in resources for a system that works well and every day proves that it works well, but has very long waiting lists. I also know that its funding has grown historically. However, it has been proven that the system works. And you want to work evidence-based, don't you? I also know that a number of beds will now recover elsewhere. What are we going to do with that, however, if quality is reduced at the same time? Madam Minister, this is a sector that needs more resources to be able to work in an integrated way, in general hospitals, in psychiatric hospitals, in youth aid, in neighbourhood health centres and so on. However, there is no indication of this. When I heard on Tuesday evening you and your Flemish colleague in Terzoe, I knew that integrated aid and cooperation in this area are farther than ever. Madam Secretary, my question is actually a plea to reverse the decision. My question is a call to take psychological aid to young people seriously. They need this help in an increasingly complex society today. Please listen to me.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-06-54-plenair-ip178x.u37	Mr President, Madam Minister, absolute disaster, with the blunt axillary, axylene, axylene, axylene, axylene, axylene, axylene, axylene, axylene, axylene, axylene, axylene, axylene, axylene, axylene, axylene, axylene, axylene, axylene, axylene, axylene, axylene, axylene, axylene, axylene, axylene, axylene, axylene, axylene, axylene, axylene, axylene, axylene, axylene, axylene, axylene, axylene, axylene, axylene, axylene, axylene, axylene, axylene, axylene, axylene, axylene, axylene, axylene, axylene, axylene, axylene, axylene, axylene, axylene, axylene, axylene, axylene, axylene, axylene, axylene, axylene, axylene, axylene, axylene, axylene, ax, axylene, axylene, axylene, axylene, axylene, axylene, axylene, axylone, axylone, axylene, axylene, axylene, axylylene, axylene, axylene, axylene, axylene, axylyleneylone, axylone, We are not used to such words from the sector, a sector which has been very critical in recent months, including in the media, but which is doing a wonderful job on the ground every day. However, the daycare of vulnerable young people is one of the building blocks of your plan Children and Young People, which you roll out together with the Communities. Colleagues, 50% of all mental problems arise before the age of 14 and 75% before the age of 25. Evidence-based research shows that day care is successful in this case. Madam Secretary, a lot has been said in recent days. This is a very technical discussion, about small K, large K, day, night, over-financing, equalisation of funding, in short, about all kinds of things that vulnerable young people really have no message of. I have had a lot of contacts and it shows that the sector now feels that there is unilateral action and that they are not being listened to, which will lead to fewer people in the workplace. Madam Secretary, how do you feel about the KB that appeared last Friday? I understand that representatives of the sector came to see you this week. Are you willing to reroute the KB? It is reported that you would seek further advice from the Federal Council. However, it had already issued an opinion in February showing that funding for existing beds was best preserved and could be reduced for the new initiatives. Why didn't you take that advice then?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-06-54-plenair-ip178x.u38	Mr President, Mrs Jiroflée, first and foremost, no government before me has put so many people and resources into mental health care. From the outset, as Mrs Muylle says, through the Inter-Ministerial Conference, we have produced a guide aimed at children and adolescents, and we have invested heavily in people and resources. As early as 2015, huge steps were taken. We were then able to count on the enthusiasm of the field. About 250 full-time equivalents have been added thanks to the millions we have invested and also thanks to more cooperation, including between healthcare providers, liaison functions and crisis situations. You know the guide well enough. This is always done in conjunction with the Communities, which are indeed partly competent, although I would add immediately that the resources came from the federal level. Allow me to explain how the decision was taken to finance the small K-beds in a uniform manner. We all know that there are three different occupations of small K-beds. You will not even find this in one heading in the Budget Financial Resources, so that is not transparent at all. We believe that the same number of people should be able to be used in hospitals in all provinces in our country for the same care. That is an important element, and that is why we had to rationalise it. I can only conclude that a great framing has happened here, and also in the media. After all, what is the intention? No beds will be removed, on the contrary, there will be beds, 141 in Flanders. Wallonia can also fill out a piece of paper, even though Brussels is almost at the maximum. It could be a change of beds that haven't been paid for. Of the large surplus of around 7000 beds, some can be converted into day care hospitals. In Flanders there are 141 beds, only in general hospitals, because psychiatric hospitals are financed in a different way. The moratorium is also specifically lifted for this purpose, also at the request of Mr Vandeurzen, who said that the change in Flanders is necessary to remedy the waiting lists. By the way, the waiting lists have been in place for years, Mrs Jiroflée, who did not suddenly fall out of the sky. So we have actually allowed a shift within the budget. We set the price for just over 13 full-time equivalents. As a result, many more resources, several millions, can go to day care. I'm not changing the funding of the psychiatric hospitals either. I've read testimonials from psychiatric hospitals where no jota is changed. I'm gonna put all these testimonies next to me. I believe you know this as an expert. I would ask for an opinion from the National Council because it was not aware of the different rates either, because hospital funding is a real blur. This government is working on transparency in hospital funding so that everyone knows who gets what resources. Transparency, but also objectivity and equal treatment in funding. This is always done in consultation with the sector and with my fellow Members. I'm responsible for the funding. I need to find the money, and then they can work with it. I think we understand each other in that. For the sake of clarity, I would like to say that there are no problems between me and Mr Vandeurzen. The conversion continues to be interesting for hospitals, because now it is the unaccounted-for beds that will be paid in the future. Mr President, there is an extra place in Flanders for the care of 140 children. The waiting lists can finally go down. We are shifting more budget to children's psychiatry for that. However, the children concerned have no message to all political games and tweets.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-06-54-plenair-ip178x.u39	You say no political games. I totally agree with you. These children and young people are entitled to adapted care. You're clearly shooting into a defense cramp here today. Why ask for new advice? I've looked into the advice. If you had followed the advice, I wouldn't be here today because we wouldn't have had a problem. When you took part in the Red Neuzen Action, you said this, and I quote: "For young people with mental problems, I would very much like to make time available and do my bit. Madam Secretary, you will now have the opportunity to reverse this decision.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-06-54-plenair-ip178x.u40	Mr President, Minister, all this technical explanation is actually next to the issue. What this government needs to do is to invest and in this case invest in psychiatric care and psychiatric support for our young people. There's not enough psych support, she's expensive, and the waiting lists are long. Juvenile psychiatry doesn't need a shift of resources. She needs more resources, and you know it.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-06-54-plenair-ip178x.u41	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your reply. I follow what you said in your last sentence. This is not a file to play political games. I have asked you a number of times to create these additional beds for psychiatry, as previously in the framework of the moratorium decision. So that's a good thing. You are talking today about thirteen full-time equivalents in terms of funding. I read that in the press, too. The Royal Decree goes a little further and goes after three years to eight full-time equivalents. I therefore hope that an adjustment can be made there, after consultation with the sector in this area within the framework of the Royal Decree, and that this could be a new starting point for dialogue. All colleagues working in the sector are very concerned that the funds being shifted will once again benefit mental health and will remain in the sector. I also hope for a dialogue in the coming weeks, in full openness, so that we do not have to stand here again.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-06-54-plenair-ip178x.u42	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, I am asking you today about the supplementary pension for contract staff employed by local authorities. After imposing particularly unfair measures such as retirement at age 67 – which was not included in the program of any party, especially in the MR program – it is worth recalling – after stepping up efforts by not hesitantly resorting to a form of misinformation to conceal the reality of your actions, with the step you have just taken, you are definitely excelling in the art of deviousness. Indeed, you have decided to drastically reduce the pension of contract workers who have the misfortune of being appointed late to the public service. Let us be clear: this late appointment is not a matter of the worker's choice; there is nothing to do with it. But you have decided to punish him. To hide this new attack on pensions, you have found a new communication effect by promising a second pension pillar to public service contractors. Behind this beautiful promise is an intention to discourage the appointment of statutory agents. In doing so, you are attacking the rights of workers, as you weaken them. The protection due to them will thus be reduced, as will their pension, in so far as they cannot be statutoryised. The accountability contributions of the local authorities that have put in place a second pillar will be reduced. All right! However, the local authorities that contribute are those that have not appointed enough. So you're going to reward bad students and discourage appointments. This is obviously intolerable! Worse still, you will penalise the Walloon and Brussels regions to favour Flanders. Of the EUR 16.3 million that this financial incentive will represent in the future, the latter will earn 13 million, Wallonia only 2.4 million and Brussels just under one million. If we explore the numbers further,... Monsieur Bracke, vous me regardez...
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-06-54-plenair-ip178x.u43	Yes, because we have to conclude, Mr. Kir.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-06-54-plenair-ip178x.u44	Yes, Mr. President, I come to my questions. Is it because you knew I was going to talk about Antwerp? When we look more closely at the €13 million that will be allocated to Flanders, we find that 6.4 million are destined for Antwerp. It's huge! That's De Wever's measure here! It's a little awkward. It is clear that this measure is of greater benefit to Flanders and is mainly financed by Wallonia and Brussels: EUR 8.5 million for Wallonia and EUR 2.7 million for Brussels out of EUR 16 million. Mr President, I come to the questions. Minister, how do you justify granting this incentive to local authorities that already have a second pillar and for which it is a boon, to the detriment of the less wealthy local authorities? Why don't you plan additional federal funding to take on your political choices?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-06-54-plenair-ip178x.u45	Mr President, Mr Kir, I hear your question very well. I would remind you that this draft law was approved in Committee A by the social partners, in particular by two of the three trade unions, the third one being not so much trade union but rather political, as you know. This preliminary draft law implements the mixed pension, which has been a demand of the Unions of Cities and Municipalities for many years. The trade unions did indeed request the addition of a supplementary pension component. I find this entirely legitimate because it is abnormal that contract workers who are the majority in the local authorities today are ultimately the only employees in this country who are never able to receive a supplementary pension, whereas they are engaged in the same occupation as statutory workers next to them who have pensions three times higher than their own. If that is the sense of fairness that you share, I would like to ask myself. An incentive has therefore been provided to ensure that the premiums paid for supplementary pensions can be partially deductible from the accountability contribution. Of course, this incentive is needed to boost the supplementary pension system. I am on the side of the workers, more than on the side of the institutions. I believe that women and men working in local authorities are entitled to correct pensions. But the solution you are proposing is that these institutions are rather machines for producing poor pensioners. That's not my vision of things! The figures you have quoted are purely virtual, as if no municipality in Wallonia and Brussels were going to create a supplementary pension plan for its contractual staff. It is true that today they are late. They have 18 months, until 1 January 2019, to implement supplementary pension plans. The figures you are announcing today do not correspond to any reality. They're purely fanciful. It seems to me that the analysis must be a little more objective. Mr Kir, our aim is for all employees in our country, whether they are employed by local authorities or by companies, to benefit from a supplementary pension plan. That is the purpose of the reform. It is important to defend the workers. In fact, the unions did not make a mistake. They have agreed to this measure, which, at present, is rare in terms of social consultation, and I agree with it. They agreed to this measure because they know it is a good measure for workers.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-06-54-plenair-ip178x.u46	Minister, you question the figures. You say they are incorrect, because they do not take into account the situation that you think will evolve in the next 18 months. You think they will evolve for the benefit of the Walloon and Brussels regions, but you refuse to present us simulations or give us leads. You cannot ignore the complicated situation of local authorities in Wallonia – you still know a little – and in Brussels. In Brussels, for example, most municipalities are under management plans. They will be unable to grant a supplementary pension to their contract workers. In Wallonia, most of the major cities (Liège, Namur or Mons) are in the same situation. There will certainly be a transfer from Wallonia and Brussels to Flanders, which did not need this incentive to set up this second pillar. According to the figures I have in my possession, 73% of local authorities in Flanders already grant this second pillar. You are creating a boon for the Flemish communes at the expense of Wallonia and Brussels. Pretending the opposite, minister, is a lie! In fact, you, Minister MR, do not defend the interests of the francophones of Wallonia and Brussels. You have again given in to the requirements of the N-VA and Mr. From Wever! )
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-06-54-plenair-ip178x.u47	Madam Minister, it is now full of summer, but it was a bit of a shock when we read in the newspaper this morning that we should be concerned because there may be energy scarcity again this winter. This reminds us of the winter 2014-2015. Then we all feared that there would be a blackout and that we would have to activate our shutdown plans. Colleagues, let us be honest, if there is a blackout, it is a disgrace for our whole country. It would not only be an embarrassment, but would also entail enormous social costs. If there is a one-hour power outage on a working day, this brings with it social and economic costs of as much as 120 million euros. We absolutely must avoid this. It was then Secretary of State Wathelet who came up with the system of the strategic reserve in 2014. This is a reserve that includes inactive gas plants that can be activated when there is an effective threat of scarcity. The problem is that this system of the strategic reserve was not submitted to the European Commission in 2014. It is only now that the European Commission wants to examine whether this kind of strategic reserve involves state aid or not. That investigation is now under way, and it appears that we cannot conclude contracts with gas plants during that investigation. That is why there is now a fear that we will have a problem in the coming winter which will allow the light to go out. This raises a number of questions for us, Madam Secretary. What is the state of the European Commission's investigation? When can we expect the results? We are not allowed to conclude contracts during the investigation. Can you tell us what the impact of this is on our security of supply? What alternatives will you investigate? Finally, if the European Commission decides that there is effective state aid and that we should no longer set up a strategic reserve, how should we deal with this? What impact does this decision have on our security of supply? What measures will you take, in the short term and in the long term, to keep the lamp on?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-06-54-plenair-ip178x.u48	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Dierick has just outlined the whole situation. A power blackout is not a novelty for us, but it does make us shudder in the well of summer. You all remember the intense discussions in 2014 which also led to the system of strategic reserves. We are now three years ahead and once again the question arises whether the lamp will light up next winter. Elia estimates that next winter we will need a strategic reserve of 900 megawatts. Therefore, contracts must now be concluded with the energy producers who supply these reserves. They will receive financial support for this. But even now, Europe is investigating whether this state aid is legal. As long as Europe's research is under way, contracts must not be concluded. So there is the standstill principle. So the question is whether the lamp will go out next winter. Madam Minister, how is it that for three years the notification has not been made to the European Commission? Why didn't that happen at a time when there was much less time pressure? Today's key question, however, is the following. How will you solve this problem?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-06-54-plenair-ip178x.u49	Mr President, Madam Minister, since you took office, you have constantly tried to ensure a better energy supply for our country, the energy security of companies, consumers and public infrastructure. That is how you have taken a whole series of steps, including the extension of Doel 1 and Doel 2, an important point, the recasting of the relief plan that was put in place by your predecessor, Secretary of State Wathelet, in order to create a new plan better suited to people and businesses, and also a whole series of other measures such as the project that we will have the opportunity to vote on earlier and which relates to enhancing the flexibility of our energy security. The press said this morning that Belgium would file with the European Commission the notification of the strategic reserve mechanism. This mechanism had been set up under the Di Rupo government by your predecessor whom I have just mentioned but had never been notified to the European Commission. The Commission asked Belgium to notify it of this mechanism so that it could monitor whether it was in line with competition standards at European level. Some mention the fact that this procedure is in progress, so a standstill obligation would be applied and therefore no signature could be applied and no contract could be signed with potential suppliers. Minister, what are the legal options currently on the table to ensure our country's security of supply? Could you also recall all the measures that you have taken since you took office to secure our supply? Can you tell us if further additional measures will be taken in the coming months?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-06-54-plenair-ip178x.u50	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I thank you for your questions which, at the beginning of the summer, are important, since the means necessary for the approach to winter must be foreseen long in advance. We've lived. Indeed, due to a lack of forecasts, we had fears in the winter of 2014-15 and this was recalled by Mrs Leen Dierick earlier, since we were faced with a risk of possible relief with the dramatic financial consequences that this could entail for Belgium. As Mr Friart points out, over the months that have passed, we have not only used the strategic reserve mechanism but also recast the relief plan. We have continued to develop interconnections and extended Doel 1 and Doel 2 nuclear power plants to ensure a robust base in Belgium in terms of electricity generation and supply. Here, we realized – and this is not the first time this has happened in energy cases since it was the case for nuclear energy, it was the case for degression, it was the case for offshore – that the mechanism of the strategic reserve devised by the previous government, while Mr Wathelet, my predecessor, was working at the same post, was not notified to the European Commission, which was therefore unable to examine whether or not this mechanism constituted State aid which would be contrary to the rules of European competition. For the time being, in the run-off of our annual strategic reserve forecasting operations, we launched a call for tenders in early February after Elia and my administration had expressed a need for 900 megawatts for next winter. We have received the offers since April 18. The CREG now checks whether the proposed prices are reasonable or not. It is quite obvious that from the moment I have the opinion of the CREG, I will be in a situation where, on one side with the European Commission and on the other, with the opinion of the CREG, facing the winter, I will have to take a position. I'll do it as soon as possible. I will, of course, allow discussions to continue with the European Commission. In the context of these, we have several legal means to point out that, first of all, it is not State aid or, if it is State aid, it is not contrary to competition rules. Moreover, since the time that this mechanism exists, there is no need to argue a standstill today to prevent us from concluding a strategic reserve for the winter. Indeed, we should have been prevented from doing so in previous years. Moreover, the examination of the founding Treaty of the European Union reminds us, in Article 4, that loyalty prevails between the various Member States and that we must strive, as much as we are, not to act to disrupt the situation of the neighbouring States. In this case, if we had supply concerns at home, it would also be at our borders and would lead to difficulties, both for us and for the neighbouring States. In short, all these elements will be discussed with the European Commission as soon as possible. In the meantime, in addition to all the means we have already devoted to increasing our security of supply and making it robust, we are now adding means of the future, namely the texts we are going to vote this afternoon on storage, flexibility, and therefore demand management, which are very important measures for the future. They can be implemented from 2018, but thanks to the exchange platform, they can already be implemented as early as July 2017. All these elements do not give you a guarantee for the coming months. I therefore invite you to reconsider when we approach October to see where we are with the discussions on possible state aid within the framework of the strategic reserve, which we have at the level of the European Commission.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-06-54-plenair-ip178x.u51	Madam Minister, thank you for the explanation. Unfortunately, I have not received any answers to all my questions, but we will undoubtedly continue the debate in committee. It is very unfortunate that the system of the strategic reserve has not been submitted to the European Commission before. If we had done that from the beginning, there would be no uncertainty now. Now there is still that uncertainty that the light will continue to burn in the coming winters. This uncertainty is not good, not for the investors, not for the families, not for the companies. It must therefore be removed as soon as possible. We urge you to prepare a solid dossier for the European Commission as soon as possible and to examine all possible alternatives. I am thinking, for example, of concluding contracts with a suspensive clause. All possible slopes need to be looked at, so that we do not have to pull our exit plans from under the dust this winter. It also brings us to the heart of our energy policy, and that is to guarantee our security of supply. It is always a difficulty, an uncertainty that prevails. A lot of measures have already been taken. It is not without reason that we are calling for an energy pact to be implemented in 2014. That pact must remove that uncertainty and uncertainty. We hope that you and your regional colleague will manage to have an energy pact by the end of 2017, so that not only the light will stay on in the summer but in all the coming winters.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-06-54-plenair-ip178x.u52	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your reply, although I remain somewhat hungry. It would be unacceptable for us to experience a power blackout in our country. You will reply that we will have to ask you again in October 2017. Madam Minister, you also replied that it was Mr Wathelet who provided the strategic reserves and that he should have made the notification. However, very important and what we want to point out on behalf of our groups is that you must accept your responsibility. We want results as soon as possible and will not wait until October 2017 to ask another question about the problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-06-54-plenair-ip178x.u53	Madam Minister, it should also be recalled that, when you took up your duties, you were faced with a difficult legacy. All we were talking about at that time was taking off and black out. All the measures you have taken on the short, medium, and long term have allowed to remove these spectra of discharge and black out. That's how it is! We can be certain that the further development of interconnections, the improvement of the functioning of the electricity market and the inter-federal energy pact will not fail to strengthen our security of supply, not to mention the forthcoming approval by Europe of our strategic reserve.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-06-54-plenair-ip178x.u54	Mr President, Minister, the Secretary of State said in the press this week that about 100 people who had been granted refugee status were defrauding the system by returning to their country of origin for vacations. I find this indecent, on the one hand, when we think of pensioners and the unemployed, or of low-income workers who cannot afford to go on vacation, and, on the other hand, because it is flagrant - proof is given here - that these people do not flee the war because they return to their country when the opportunity arises. As we said from the beginning, these are mainly economic refugees. We can understand their distress, but we cannot take care of all the misery of the world. The President of the French Republic, Emmanuel Macron, said the same thing last Monday. In addition, last week's budgetary adjustment shows it to us to be sufficient. Minister, do you think the filters applied to determine refugee status are effective? What are the reported cases of nationality?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-06-54-plenair-ip178x.u55	Mr President, dear colleague, in Belgium, the Office of the Commissioner-General for Refugees and Stateless Persons (CGRA), as an independent body, is responsible for the withdrawal and removal of the refugee status granted. The powers of the Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration are limited to reporting on possible cases. As the press has revealed in detail, the Secretary of State ensures that recognized refugees travelling voluntarily to their country of origin are reported. This obviously involves prosecution on the basis of their alleged exaggerated or even false statements. The Commissioner General is then given the opportunity to withdraw refugee status, which is done after an individual examination in which the person concerned is always heard. These are a total of 105 persons with international protection status who have travelled to their country of origin where, according to their asylum application, they fear persecution. These are 46 Afghans, 28 Iraqis, 5 Russians, 3 Somalis and 18 Guinean, Armenian, Ivorian, Iranian, Lebanese, Rwandan, Turkish, Central African and Cameroonian nationals. In particular, it appears from the files that refugees who wish to travel to their country of origin often use other European airports such as Schiphol, Düsseldorf, Charles De Gaulle and Rome. Closer cooperation is therefore required between the heads of the services of the Member States. In the meantime, a declaration of intent to collaborate has already been signed with the Netherlands, Germany, and discussions are under way with France. A delegation from the Office of Foreigners and the Airport Police will visit Germany on the occasion of the operational arrangements as part of the Memorandum of Intent signed with Germany.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-06-54-plenair-ip178x.u56	Minister, thank you. I take note that in the countries you mentioned, apart from Afghanistan of course, there are no countries at war. I haven't even heard of Syria. I ask the government whether it can intervene with the European authorities so that the hotspots are not located in the territory of the European Union, but outside. This would avoid many things: innocent drownings and deaths in the Mediterranean and, moreover, not enriching smugglers and mafias who carry out this type of transport. According to Frontex's statements, in 2015 this traffic brought back more than 5 billion euros.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-06-54-plenair-ip178x.u57	Mr President, Minister, the system of company cars in Belgium is reaching its limits. While it is beneficial to those who benefit from it, it has become a real problem. This is first of all a problem in terms of mobility. This system has an incentive effect for the use of the car and, objectively, it's not top! Everyone will agree. It has also become a real tax problem since the scheme is clearly discriminatory. Moreover, it is so discriminatory that it is now considered that half of the car fleet of company cars actually benefits the 10% of the highest incomes. Objectively, this system needs to be reformed. Some even propose to delete it. In any event, everyone agrees on the need for far-reaching reform. It was therefore a little surprised, if not interlocked, to see the announcement by the government that proposed a seemingly very simple change. But a simple idea is not necessarily a good idea, since it is proposed to replace the car with a cash amount. This is quite challenging because, obviously, it will have no impact on mobility. The analysis shows that the proposal is not attractive enough only to encourage employees to change plans, since the allowance is less than the actual cost of the vehicle. The system therefore benefits employers more than employees. Furthermore, this proposal does not include any element that has an incentive effect for the use of alternative mobility. The Plan Office has just confirmed that this would have no effect on road congestion. Secondly, this proposal is even more discriminatory than the current system, since there will now be additional discrimination between those who receive their income in a traditional way and those who receive a financial allowance, which is itself subject to a more advantageous tax system. The proposal therefore gives the impression of being next to the plate. Minister, is the government prepared to review its copy in light of the negative views expressed on all sides, including the Plan Office and all organizations, including employers' organizations and labour organizations?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-06-54-plenair-ip178x.u58	Minister, Belgium is literally suffocated by the company car system. It is asphyxiated from an economic point of view since company cars, too many on our roads, cause traffic jams that have an annual cost estimated at more than €8 billion by the FEB. There are too many cars on our roads! This system also has an impact on the financing of our social security since workers are paid not in wages with social contributions, but in "car" wages. This creates a deficit in our social security. Then, this system literally makes you sick. Fine particles in cities cause cardiovascular diseases that themselves have a very high economic cost, to treat sick people, beyond the human tragedies that this causes. Also, we have marked an interest, a positive curiosity about this government's plan to think about a mobility budget that could replace company cars. You have apparently reached an agreement on this on Friday, but this agreement does not stand up to analysis, Minister. In terms of impact on mobility, this net wage would not be spent on alternative means of transport to the company car. Unless we have been distracted, we have not seen any refinancing of public transport and SNCB. This advantage would be reserved only for company car holders, which has resulted in a further increase in their number. There have never been as many company cars as so far, the figures for the current year prove it. You are also going to create inequality among the workers, an inequality which one can wonder how it will resist the opinion of the Council of State. This mobility budget is a flop, an announcement effect! What do you have to say for its defence in terms of mobility, budgetary balance and equality between workers?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-06-54-plenair-ip178x.u59	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Minister of Finance has provided me with the following answers to your questions. First, the principles are as follows. Workers with a "salary car" will have the opportunity to exchange their vehicle for a sum of money. This measure will apply only to workers who already have a company vehicle. It is based on freedom of principle: there will be no obligation on employers to introduce the measure or an obligation on workers to accept it. A number of conditions and criteria are laid down in order to avoid misuse of the system. The mobility allowance is a sum of money whose social and tax status is similar to that of the company vehicle. The calculation of the amount is made on the basis of the catalogue value, of which 6/7th are taken into account, as for the rules on company vehicles. This result is then multiplied by 20%, i.e. the depreciation of one vehicle over five years. If, in addition, the driver has a fuel card, 20 per cent is added. The social partners will be asked to develop an indexation system within six months, which will be evaluated after one year. The draft law has yet to be placed on the agenda of the Council of Ministers and will then follow the parliamentary procedure. Clearly, some legal provisions are still being drafted and need to be further developed. It must be remembered that the tax advantages for corporate vehicles have grown historically due to too high a burden on work. With the introduction of a mobility allowance, we offer a wider choice for employers and workers in terms of transport arrangements. This allocation is an important first step towards greater freedom of choice and taxation that takes into account the impact on mobility and the environment. With respect to the analysis of the Plan Bureau, she shows that it is mainly workers who do not really need their company vehicle and who use it very little that can be sensitive to this measure. This means that one of the main objectives of the project would be achieved.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-06-54-plenair-ip178x.u60	Minister, thank you for coming to read the answer prepared by your colleague's office. However, objectively, you do not respond to any of the objections raised by our questions. Thus, you do not answer the real problem of discrimination that this project will aggravate. Above all, you do not relieve in any way the fear expressed – which is now a quasi-certainty – that this measure will have no positive effect on mobility. You claim that there will be more choice, but this greater number of possibilities is fictional. In reality, if the use of this mobility allowance can be more advantageous for employers, it will obviously harm employees – studies are there to show it. I think that this proposal really lacks ambition. I would like to invite you, to invite the government, before passing this bill, to draw on a proposal put forward by the cdH group, which is expanding the problem, which places the revision of the tax advantage in a real mobility policy. This implies an improved offer from SNCB. This would also make it possible to broaden the range of measures available to workers, whether in terms of mobility or quality of life. I think that if you stay there, if you refuse to review your copy, you may have made a communication call, but this will be a missed opportunity, both for mobility and for car taxation.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-06-54-plenair-ip178x.u61	Mr President, this is again the government caught in flagrante delicto of exercise of communication, lack of vision and political courage. The issue of company cars is, however, essential today, in budgetary and environmental terms, as well as in terms of the impact on the financing of social security. Minister, the solution is threefold. First, alternative financing of social security, which will reduce the cost of employment and give workers real wages. Secondly, a mobility budget for each worker, which does not simply offer him a car, but offers him a range of mobility possibilities (bicycle, shared car, public transport).Thirdly, a genuine strengthening of collective mobility and public transport. What you're doing here is turning a bad system into an even worse one. We signed the Paris agreements. We are pointed out to every assessment by the European Commission for our environmental policies, especially with the company car. It's really time to change course.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-06-54-plenair-ip178x.u62	Finally, we come to the question of Mr. Maingain to the Prime Minister on the call for Italy's help in the face of the influx of refugees (P2204).
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-06-54-plenair-ip178x.u63	Mr President, Minister, I am withdrawing my question because its purpose was to ascertain the position of the government in relation to Italy's appeal. However, I have just seen on the press sites that an agreement would have been reached in Rome between Foreign Ministers on the arrangements that would be made. I do not know their exact scope, the press information being quite laconic. It would seem that there has been a joint declaration between some European and some African States, and that Belgium is not mentioned in the list of States which have made this joint declaration. I do not know if the information is correct and I prefer to check my sources before returning to ask my question more precisely.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-06-54-plenair-ip178x.u64	Your question has therefore been withdrawn. Ladies and gentlemen, we have come to the end of the oral questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-06-54-plenair-ip178x.u65	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 5 July 2017, I propose to register on the agenda of this afternoon's plenary session the bill (of Mr Siegfried Bracke) amending the law of 2 March 1954 to prevent and curb attacks on the free exercise of sovereign powers established by the Constitution, Nos 2531/1 to 4. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 5 July 2017, I propose that you include in the agenda of this afternoon's plenary session the bill (Mr Siegfried Bracke) amending the Act of 2 March 1954 to prevent and punish violations of the free exercise of sovereign powers established by the Constitution, Nos. 2531/1 to 4. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-06-54-plenair-ip178x.u66	Without report Not related
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-06-54-plenair-ip178x.u67	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-06-54-plenair-ip178x.u68	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2480/1) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2480/1) The draft law has two articles. The bill has two articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-06-54-plenair-ip178x.u69	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-06-54-plenair-ip178x.u70	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-06-54-plenair-ip178x.u71	Mr President, I refer to the excellent written report by the administration.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-06-54-plenair-ip178x.u72	We have no doubt about that. The first speaker in the general discussion was Mr Wollants.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-06-54-plenair-ip178x.u73	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we urgently need to modernise our energy system. We have looked at the energy market as a one-way street for a long time. On the one hand, electricity was produced and on the other hand it was withdrawn. Depending on the decreased quantity, it had to be produced. That is the way in which the electricity market has worked for a very long time in us and in the rest of the world. However, we are increasingly seeing different working methods. We find that people are not going to consume in one direction, but that they are also putting power on the grid as well as consumption. They are aware of what brings their consumption and what causes it. The electricity market would be best adapted to this evolution. We also note that this evolution is becoming more and more responsive. Those who enter into a contract with a supplier today have the opportunity to obtain the necessary technology that provides insight into consumption. People are much more conscious about this, because in the future a price effect may also be associated with that insight. After all, we must realise that electricity production does not cost the same amount at all times. This has to do with the quantity demanded on the market, as well as with the plants we use for production. The fact that renewable energy is now increasingly being used, with no fuel costs, such as wind energy and solar energy, puts the price at times when there is a great deal of supply. After all, less expensive power stations are needed to deliver the last megawatt. It is wise for companies to do so today, in part, to respond to these price fluctuations and to use them when our energy is cheapest, as well as when we have the most power available.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-06-54-plenair-ip178x.u74	We then consume less when there is less power available. That's actually the logic itself. In the coalition agreement, we have proposed a whole series of measures to renew the energy market in order to transform it. We've already done a number of things about that. The draft law before us, on flexibility, is a very important draft. We ensure that companies can use this flexibility to the maximum in the interests of their production and in the interests of the electricity market so that it can function better. In this way, we will make the system cheaper. If one can ensure that the last power station to be deployed is not a super-expensive power station, it is good for all consumers and all businesses. We need to get there more and more. The draft law clearly lays the foundations for a number of steps in this direction. It provides a framework for others to respond to. There are important principles in it. Marketing flexibility must be the right of every consumer and every consumer. One should not pass through the supplier or intermediaries. We should be able to do that directly. We also see that storage facilities are becoming increasingly important. We have a number of large storage facilities in this country. Think of the Coo and La Plate Taille power stations. These are important installations. We must take measures to promote it. This draft law provides the necessary incentives for this. During the discussion it also emerged that there was some discussion about what electricity storage is now. A definition is provided in the draft law to take this into account. A number of colleagues asked whether this should not be extended. Today it is foreseen that the storage of electricity will only mean that which is removed from the grid, and that the deduction of efficiency losses and the like will be injected back into the grid. Of course there is more electricity storage than that, much more. But, of course, I believe that this definition should be limited in the context of this draft law. Why do we have to keep it limited? Because, of course, there is a price incentive. When one talks about adjusting the federal contribution to such installations, it cannot be the intention of a company to reduce electricity massively, to store and then to consume itself. If we do that and we are going to grant an exemption, that means that others will have to pay more. Then it actually becomes a channeling of power through an installation while that installation really doesn't matter anymore. It is then a purely method of paying less. Let's face it, we've already had a system like this. Remember that at the time we gave a discount on the federal contribution for green electricity, and as a result we went to buy massive guarantees of origin abroad. The most important example is repeated over and over again, but I cannot stress it enough. That is the example of Iceland. If those people unfold their bill, it says that part of their power is fossil and part nuclear. I can assure you that there is no cable between Iceland and the mainland. I can also assure you that there are no nuclear power stations. We have paid those people for years to call our electricity green, and that of course has a huge cost. Those pennies flow abroad. Is that necessary? In the meantime, I believe that everyone at Flemish level has looked at the VREG figures on the fuel mix that have recently been released. In 2012, more than half of our electricity was green and yet only 10% of green electricity was produced in this country. Pure greenwashing that doesn't really help us very much. So we have to avoid that sort of thing. I am therefore pleased that we are only allowing the system that is now being proposed to be limited, just to avoid giving discounts for things that are not intended for. Feel free to let people store electricity. It is absolutely important to adapt their consumption in this way and to respond to market prices. They can take great advantage of that. However, it would be a bad signal if, through the federal contribution, we gave people a discount that ultimately had to pay others, families or companies. We don't think that's a good idea. Madam Minister, you will have already noticed that we support this draft law. We think it is a very good step and, of course, eagerly look forward to further steps, because we also need to move forward in the field of energy standards and energy vision. However, let us take this step already, then we are a little further.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-06-54-plenair-ip178x.u75	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the evolution of the electrical system has been dominated in recent years by the increased integration of intermittent production units. This trend leads to increasing needs for flexibility. As with the increase in the flexibility of the conventional production package and the capacity available at borders, the development of demand management and the development of electricity storage enable these increased flexibility needs to be met. The bill before us today aims to achieve this goal by, among other things, defining tariff guidelines that reconcile three requirements. The first is to improve the competitiveness of our companies. The second is to keep the consumer's energy bill at a reasonable level. The third is to ensure the budgetary neutrality of the tariff changes. Participation in demand flexibility in electricity markets also contributes to the smooth functioning of these markets, network security and security of supply. It was therefore imperative that obstacles to its development be minimized. However, the current legislation so far reflects a view of the market that supply adapts to demand. Moreover, it does not recognise any right for the final customer to value its flexibility on its own or through an intermediary of its choice, regardless of its energy supplier. This bill will therefore allow the request to participate in all electricity markets, including day ahead market and intraday market. It will also promote storage in general and provide tariff incentives to encourage storage in accordance with the criteria of proportionality and non-discrimination. In addition to a general definition of storage, the project also defines the concept of storage for an installation connected to the transmission network or networks with a transport function. This is due to the fact that this is one of the tools chosen to provide, in the general interest, more flexibility and security to the network, thus helping to strengthen our security of supply. This bill, ladies and gentlemen, is an important building block for strengthening the legal framework for the storage of electricity. However, it should be borne in mind that these measures, in order to be fully effective, will have to be supported by measures falling within the competence of the Regions. Thus, as the minister pointed out, the bill can only address storage facilities connected to the high-voltage network, low- and medium-voltage networks under the jurisdiction of federated entities. The same applies to the taking into account of decentralised forms. I am thinking in this case of microgrids, these electrical networks developed on the scale of a building, a neighbourhood or a city. In the future, they will only be able to develop if the Regions adopt appropriate legal and technical criteria. Finally, it should be noted that the CREG, which indicated that there was no major obstacle to the bill, is expected to play a leading role. In particular, it will be responsible for avoiding conflicts and encouraging operators to agree on flexible transactions. This project contributes to our country's energy security by providing a more effective legal framework for both demand flexibility and electricity storage. It is an ambitious project for our energy policy, as evidenced by the unanimity with which it was adopted in committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-06-54-plenair-ip178x.u76	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, after all that has already been said by my fellow Members, I shall be brief. We will, of course, approve this draft, as in committee. In committee, however, there was a small discussion about the definition of flexibility and this as a result of what is still possible at regional level. The precise definition remains the subject of discussion. For the rest, we can support this draft. As electricity consumption in Belgium is often peaking and falling, flexibility and demand management can play an important role in reducing consumption peaks and increasing declines. This has a number of important consequences. This may reduce production capacity as demand peaks provide additional production capacity that cannot be optimally deployed. There are a number of solutions to this. This allows companies to temporarily reduce their electricity demand. For example, a company that has a large freezer system can switch it off for two hours to reduce the load on the net. By adjusting the activity to this, the temperature in the freezer rises temporarily, which is no problem, but one does not use electricity. Flexibility can be created and created by actors, which can be usefully used. Another way to catch these peaks is the storage. For example, the same freezer company on a trough moment can also lower its freezer system two degrees in temperature. This calls for additional electricity, which can be released later by increasing the temperature. Another example is batteries or Coo's water plant. This too is in some sense a form of flexibility and this draft law provides for a possible compensation mechanism. Flexibility is inextricably linked to the energy transition in which the energy and electricity network is located. The transition from large central units to decentralised units has been deployed. Moreover, renewable energy sources are intermittent: they produce on the basis of the weather and do not generate constant output. This only increases the demand for flexible solutions. It is therefore a commendable design, although it could have been further defined around storage. In accordance with the coalition agreement, it provides for market opening and storage in transmission networks. This is a first step towards energy policy 2.0. The intention of both the federal state and the regional entities to come forward with an energy pact by the end of the year must be a surplus to give it more strength. In addition, a number of measures are needed to further safeguard the competitiveness of companies, including energy prices, which are an important factor in the competitiveness of our companies in addition to the wage burden. In short, we can support the draft law and our group will vote in favour of it.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-06-54-plenair-ip178x.u77	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we are of course also satisfied with the two draft laws before us, which clearly choose to promote electricity storage and demand management, on the one hand, and to enable the construction and operation of the so-called offshore power outlet, on the other. Ladies and gentlemen, we all know that electricity storage is one of the most important challenges for our future, for our energy and for our security of supply. In addition to a new tariff directive, the draft law also provides for the exemption from federal contributions of electricity taken from the grid to feed an electricity storage facility. In committee, there was still some uncertainty as to which installations will be able to benefit from this. However, from the Minister's reply, I was able to conclude that these are large installations connected to the high-voltage grid, such as Coo, as the federal government is solely responsible for this. In addition to storage, the bill also stimulates demand. We can only welcome that, of course. The participation of demand in all electricity markets is made possible. It is also intended that in the future market players will be able to offer their flexibility through a platform of Elia. Finally, the draft law also makes it possible to build and operate a power outlet at sea, the so-called MOG. The three wind farms still to be built will have to be linked to the MOG. Compared to separate connections of the wind farms, a joint connection with the MOG has several advantages. For example, with the MOG there is a lower impact on the environment, as less kilometres of cable will be needed to land the electricity from the sea. Another advantage of the MOG is that there is greater certainty, as in the event of a cable incident, the renewable energy generated can still be disposed of via the remaining cables. Madam Minister, it is important that the transition to a new energy system is thoroughly prepared. The two draft laws proposed in this plenary are a step in the right direction, but of course we are not yet there. The government is currently negotiating a future support mechanism for offshore wind farms still to be built. I have already asked several questions about this. In committee, you stated that the government has chosen to negotiate with the operators concerned in order to reduce that aid. We hope that this can be done soon, so that we can look together with the operators to see how oversubsidisation can absolutely be avoided. We hope, however, that there will be a dialogue in order to avoid years of legal procedures and thus uncertainty. Madam Minister, we wish you every success in the negotiations. In addition to all these actions, we absolutely need an energy pact, as I said in my reply. We have already had a lot of debate on the Energy Pact, and we hope that you will work on it together with the regional ministers, so that there will be an energy pact by the end of 2017. In any case, our group will vote for both of these draft laws with great conviction.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-06-54-plenair-ip178x.u78	Mr. Chair, I thank the speakers for outlining the framework and important details of these two projects, which are no less so as they represent the official departure of the evolving federal state that is building the energy transition in our country. During the discussions we had in committee, I had the opportunity to clarify certain things, including, as has been pointed out, that the Regions should be able to have the same technical and regulatory framework, which would make it possible to make use of any possibility of flexibility in our country, up to the individual consumer. This is fundamental. As far as the future is concerned, I continue to work with the Regions to set up an inter-federal energy pact again this year. It is within the framework of this pact, which will be a wider instrument, that these projects come into being in a very appropriate way. Indeed, when we can value any energy production at the time it is produced or, when it is stored, reuse it at the time when we need it, we will have the possibility to probably reduce our consumption requirements and we will enter, as has been said, another era that will allow us to consider our energy situation at the level of demand and not necessarily at the level of production. I am also pleased that these two drafts have received the approval of all the members of the committee, the majority and the opposition, and I hope that this will be reflected in the votes that will take place earlier.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-06-54-plenair-ip178x.u79	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-06-54-plenair-ip178x.u80	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2528/4) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2528/4) The title was amended by the Commission in its draft law amending the Law of 29 April 1999 on the organisation of the electricity market with a view to improving demand flexibility and electricity storage." The title has been amended by the committee in draft law amending the Act of 29 April 1999 on the organisation of the electricity market, with a view to improving the flexibility of demand and the storage of electricity". The draft law has 9 articles. The bill has 9 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-06-54-plenair-ip178x.u81	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-06-54-plenair-ip178x.u82	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-06-54-plenair-ip178x.u83	Mr President, I am sticking to the report.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-06-54-plenair-ip178x.u84	I thank you for this and invite you to come and make your statement directly.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-06-54-plenair-ip178x.u85	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Belgium has set itself very ambitious renewable energy targets, fully in line with the momentum created by the Paris Agreement. In order to achieve these objectives, we need to develop our offshore wind farms by ensuring that electricity is produced at an affordable price for both consumers, businesses and public infrastructure. The bill before us creates a legal framework for the construction and operation of the Modular Offshore Grid (MOG). It is a facility that will link the three new offshore wind farms projected as well as Rentel to the terrestrial electricity grid. The MOG was preferred to a so-called "spaghetti" system, in which each park connects individually to the terrestrial network. MOG has many economic, technical and environmental benefits. To begin with, it will be a modular construction, which will allow future extensions. It is also a safer solution in terms of transmission continuity. Finally, among the environmental benefits, it will be noted that the MOG will reduce the number of kilometres of cable required, thereby limiting the impact on the marine environment. In choosing the MOG, the government also made the choice to facilitate connections for possible expansion of each of the four parks concerned, connections for additional concessions, connections for new renewable sources and future interconnection of wind fields in the North Sea riparian states. It is also an electrical node from which a link could be made to direct the energy produced at sea by a road other than Stevin. In addition to questions of expediency, legal questions were also raised during our committee work, particularly in the light of the opinion of the Council of State. The Court had held that the surcharge initially intended to finance the possible compensation of holdings should be fixed by the legislator and not by the King, since it was a tax. In doing so, the government chose to use the tariff method rather than the tax method. The Chamber's legal services confirmed that the objection of the Council of State was thus lifted. The project establishes as a basic principle that any delay in the commissioning of the MOG will have to give rise to compensation to the operators, either on account of the compensation mechanism established under the tariff methodology or on account of Elia's gross negligence. In particular, the Minister cited as an example during the trades in committee the failure to comply with all the safety conditions legally required to prevent damage caused by marine navigation. The allocation of GMO costs to network users takes into account the competitiveness of actors whose electricity consumption is a significant burden. This is a form of degressivity introduced in the tariff method, the aim of which will be to preserve the competitiveness of enterprises, while taking into account the impact of the cost of the GMO on the ordinary consumer's bill and on the State's finances. In order to remove any ambiguity as to the risk of State aid raised by the Council of State, the Government has already announced that the degression mechanism will be notified to the European Commission. Finally, it should be noted, for the remainder, that the CREG, whose opinion had been requested by our Committee on the Economy, sees no fundamental objection to this bill. That, ladies and gentlemen, is a project that provides a solid legal framework to encourage the deployment of an important tool for the development of renewable energy in our country. That is why we will support him. We hope that this support will be shared beyond the majority-opposition divide, as was the case in the Committee on the Economy, where this project, like the previous one, was adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-06-54-plenair-ip178x.u86	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have already discussed how the system works and how we have come to the MOG, the Modular Offshore Grid. In popular terms, this is better known as the power outlet in the North Sea. We have actually been talking about this for years. I have already come across it in the coalition agreement in 2008-2009. It was already discussed that the spaghetti of all the different cables needed to be solved more efficiently and that the network needed to be made more robust. This is now effectively being put right. It is almost 10 years later, but today we are taking the step towards breaking up this mess through the MOG. That is a good thing. So we are ready for the future. The MOG can also ensure that we move forward in terms of security of supply. We are therefore pleased that this point can be ticked off after 10 years. Our group will therefore support this bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-06-54-plenair-ip178x.u87	Mr President, I shall be brief, not wanting to abuse the time of your House. On this issue, we are moving resolutely towards the future, increasing our ability to use the energy generated by wind turbines in the North Sea, including by wind farms in the states bordering the North Sea, thanks to an efficient technical solution that is the MOG. It is a modular instrument that provides more security to the network and allows the link with these riparian states. The case was the subject of a very rich exchange in committee. We have had the opportunity to discuss the legal elements that will complement the scheme by means of a royal decree, concerning any compensation that should be provided in the event of delay in the implementation of the installation and, therefore, the impossibility for the holding parks to bring the electricity they produce to shore. This dossier also received, as the previous one, unanimity from the members of the committee. I hope that this unanimity will again be felt in the votes that will follow the debate that is closing in your House. Thank you for your support. Mr President, thank you for giving me a few moments.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-06-54-plenair-ip178x.u88	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-06-54-plenair-ip178x.u89	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2489/3) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2489/3) The title was amended by the Commission in its draft law amending the Law of 29 April 1999 on the organisation of the electricity market with a view to establishing a legal framework for the Modular Offshore Grid." The title has been amended by the committee in draft law amending the Act of 29 April 1999 on the organisation of the electricity market, with a view to establishing a legal framework for the Modular Offshore Grid". The draft law contains 8 articles. The bill has 8 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-06-54-plenair-ip178x.u90	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-06-54-plenair-ip178x.u91	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Georges Dallemagne, Benoît Lutgen, Catherine Fonck.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-06-54-plenair-ip178x.u92	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteurs are Mr Damien Thiéry and your servant. We refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-06-54-plenair-ip178x.u93	Mr President, I will be very brief. I believe that the tragic events of 22 March have left a disturbing impression on all my fellow Members. Meanwhile, we're a year ahead and our lives are moving on. Unfortunately, this is not the case for the victims and their families of those terrorist attacks in Zaventem and the station of Maalbeek. Their suffering is still there every day, and that is why we, as N-VA, can very much appreciate the fact that this bill is finally on the table here. I think it is very important that the victims of these attacks are finally granted a statute so that they can also be reimbursed their medical costs and benefit from a recovery pension. My fellow Members from the Committee on Health know that this bill had a little more to offer than planned. Together with the opposition, however, we have succeeded in adding a lot of refinements. I would also like to express my thanks to the opposition for that. This is such an important draft law that cooperation should be at the forefront, rather than political whining. We will, of course, be very supportive of this bill. The work on everything related to terror has not yet been completed. We look forward to seeing what is going to happen to fellow Members of the Committee on Justice.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-06-54-plenair-ip178x.u94	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the attacks of 22 March 2016 left a strong impression on Belgium. It's an indelible black page in the history of our country. At the same time, there is the impact on the direct and indirect victims of acts of terror. We have received the victims and their representatives several times in this House, in our Health Committee and in the Committee of Inquiry. The stories of the victims and the next of kin are engraved in our memories. As a Parliament, we have an important task to answer their concerns and questions. It is in that logic that Open Vld supports this bill. This is a draft law to create a new statute for victims of terrorism. This concerns not only the victims of 22 March but also the victims of other attacks. Such a special statute is justified. After all, terrorism is intended to disrupt our society, to weaken our society. It is therefore a sign of resilience and solidarity that, in response to these acts of terrorism, we show that we are not leaving anyone to their fate, but that we will take good care of the victims of that terrorism. It is a matter of national gratitude. This draft is therefore without prejudice to the consequences of other victims such as someone who becomes ill, someone who is involved in a road accident or an accident at work. Every suffering is important to Open Vld and deserves our attention. In our welfare state we therefore have rules and systems to compensate victims: insurance, social security, other specific funds, social assistance, etc. Every victim shall be entitled to recognition of his or her suffering or misfortune. Terrorist acts are so reprehensible and exceptional that a separate regime is forced upon itself. It makes it clear that, after an attack, we do not want to go into the order of the day, but if society wishes to express an act of solidarity towards the victims, both with regard to the statute and with regard to the actual support. This is similar to what we have done for victims of war, because in some sense terrorism is a new form of war. In this way, too, this is a continuation of an existing logic. This draft law has had an extensive discussion in committee and has also been the subject of discussions between all the groups in the corridors. We have done well to take into account the interim recommendations of the Committee of Inquiry. Their conclusions have been broadly supported in this House and are the result of lengthy hearings and the work of experts. These recommendations added value to the work already done by the Minister for Social Affairs in drawing up the draft law. This concerns both fundamental elements such as dispute settlement and punctual benefits such as the free use of public transport. The hearing with victims' associations and the experts of the Committee of Inquiry also provided us with sufficient insight into the difficult situation of the victims and the way in which we can remedy this through the law.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-06-54-plenair-ip178x.u95	Chairperson: Siegfried Bracke, Chair. It is positive that the scope is broad enough. A number of victims of terrorism suffer very serious consequences, both physically and mentally. The environment of the victims also lives every day with the fact that their close relatives were in the wrong place on a day in question. Today, of course, there are already ways of compensating for damage caused by terrorism. In particular, the insurance sector plays a role in this, alongside the Commission for Financial Aid to Victims of Intentional Violence. Those organisations and bodies have already made special efforts after the attacks to enable rapid assistance and compensation. Thus, certain ceilings were also raised and rules were adapted to meet this particular situation. The present draft law is therefore an additional form of support. It is good that we have a clear statute and a clear procedure for recognising the attacks and the victims. We must not end up in a situation where victims must make special efforts to prove that they have been the victims of a terrible event in order to obtain a certain legitimate advantage. Conversely, it must not be the case, however, that others rely on the status of victims without being involved. The procedure for recognising the attacks, some of which may also have taken place before 22 March 2016, also makes clear to the government what a terrorist attack is and what is not. As the Minister of Justice also stressed in the committee, the work on the victims is not yet complete. The interfederal task force set up is still working on the further implementation of recommendations, and there is still an important and complex part to be expected in this area, not only at federal but also at the partial level. These consultations are in full swing and must be given every opportunity to achieve the best possible result. It will also address difficult issues, such as the question of subrogation, which require consultation with the insurance sector. In the face of the indescribable suffering of the victims and their families, it is of course possible that what we are approving today, in the eyes of some, is not enough. We understand this criticism, which is probably based on a legitimate expectation that we, as a society, should act more quickly and generously towards the victims. However, our group believes that the present result can be seen and provides a real response to the main concerns of the victims. This is certainly not about charity. This Parliament will continue to work hard today and in the future to ensure that victims of terrorism are treated fairly. Finally, my group would like to mention a separate element, namely that this draft also puts an end to the many years of inequality between the military and civil victims of war. The distinction that also exists in the area of benefits is no longer present. For this we also received a unanimous opinion from the relevant Advisory Council. It seemed to us, in the context of this draft, that we were right to make an act of justice with regard to this discrimination. This adjustment also has a positive impact on the compensation that can be granted to the victims of terrorism. I therefore hope that this draft will receive the unanimous approval of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-06-54-plenair-ip178x.u96	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ministers, ladies and gentlemen, 32 dead and several hundred wounded, it is the sad record of the attacks of 22 March 2016 that shook our country like, unfortunately, others before and after. They were all victims and their loved ones who had to be taken care of, but the fact, for our country, was new, almost unreal. No comprehensive system was in place to help all these people bruised in their flesh. The difficulties they had encountered had been numerous, the complex approaches and the responses and compensations too slow, although, rightly, the work carried out by Mr Olivier Lauwers and his team within the Commission in providing financial assistance to victims of intentional acts of violence had always been welcomed by the victims. We had to fill this void, this failure, this lack of foresight, will say some. The text before us today is part of this framework by creating a status of national solidarity for victims of terrorist acts. In our view, this text is above all symbolic. We said so from the time it was tabled by the government, and we continued to say so during our committee work, as did some victim associations. Even if it is symbolic, this text has the merit of existing, proving to all the victims and their relatives that the State is thinking of them and that things are moving. But let us be very clear, and we have always been, these were not the answers that we intended to bring to the victims. Nor did the chairman of the commission of inquiry on the attacks advocate this; it was not the one that many victims themselves wanted to obtain. For this important reason, and beyond the problems of the text itself, we will not support the draft today, because what we are advocating, like the committee of inquiry, like Professor Paul Martens, like the victims, is - and we have repeated during this committee - the creation of a compensation fund as is done in France. This fund could allocate in a comprehensive and rapid manner, aid and compensation to the victims, and the State would be responsible for recovering what is owed by the insurance companies. This is another route that has been chosen by the government since the system in place provides, in addition to reimbursement of medical or psychological expenses, for the award of a compensation pension based on the compensation scheme for victims of war. This system is therefore modelled, ladies and gentlemen, on legislation dating back to 1954! In our view, there is a fundamental difference between a fund which grants quickly and at once a lump sum compensation and a social security system which periodically grants a compensation pension on the basis of the assessment of disability alone. In our view, this text is only a small part of the puzzle, only a small part of the overall architecture, but only a small part of the implementation of the recommendations on assistance to victims of our Committee of Inquiry, which, I would remind you, have been unanimously voted on by that Committee. In response to our insistent request, the Minister of Justice came to committee to report on progress in implementing these recommendations. We then learned that an inter-federal task force had finally been set up. If my information is correct, it met for the first time at the end of June. Colleagues, in addition to the non-establishment of an investment fund, a second reason why the bill seems to us to be below expectations relates to the one-stop-shop component. The victims tirelessly repeated it during the hearings, what they needed, what they missed, I quote, "is that we take them by the hand". They themselves have had to face a multiplicity of insurance companies and a great institutional complexity. However, they have all seen, as I have already said, the remarkable role played by the Commission in providing financial assistance to victims of intentional acts of violence. If an amendment to the draft has made it possible to take a step in the right direction by providing that the application for the status of national solidarity will be submitted to the Commission for financial assistance to victims, the recommendations of the Attentats Committee on the single window component are only partially taken into account by this project. We will therefore be careful to ensure that this window can be established and that it has sufficient means to function properly. Despite all the elements I have just mentioned, we have agreed to work constructively with the representatives of the various firms to improve the project that has been submitted to us. In fact, quickly, we realized that nothing else would be proposed at this stage and that it was therefore our duty to put ourselves around the table. I must also acknowledge, ladies and gentlemen, that progress has been made and must be made. I am thinking in particular of the inclusion of foreign victims who, to our great regret, were absent from the first version of the text. I am thinking of the treatment of all medical expenses, including travel expenses and fee supplements when they are essential to the recovery of the victim. Today, beyond the very different system that we had initially preferred - the creation of a compensation fund - we are convinced that there are still many gaps in the text. We are convinced of this, as are a number of victims, whom many of us have met recently. This text will not allow sufficient, objective and harmonised compensation for disability. Moreover, there is still a clear lack of transparency in the amounts of pensions that will be allocated to victims. On the other hand, we continue to believe that the treatment of psychological care should be considered elsewhere than in the text. Finally, unfortunately, in our view, the cost of legal aid is still lacking, although it is also the subject of a recommendation by the committee of inquiry. In fact, we have resubmitted amendments to these various elements. Today, despite the work done, it is clear that this text still does not meet the expectations of all victims. However, these expectations are legitimate, especially since the victims of 22 March, who speak today, speak not only on their behalf but on behalf of the victims of potential future attacks. The text that will be voted on today, ladies and gentlemen, does not concern them directly or will concern very few of them. The system put in place is, in fact, wasteful. The State will therefore not intervene when the damage is covered by insurance, as is the case with the victims of the Zaventem airport or the Maelbeek metro. These victims therefore speak for the future, for all our citizens who, one day or another, could in turn be affected. Some victims rightly denounce the risk of future discrimination between victims. Since 2007, insurers cannot exclude the "terrorism" risk from their insurance contract. Thus, if a victim is shot in the workplace, he/she will be covered by his/her "work injury" insurance and will be compensated for all his/her damage on the basis of ordinary law. If, on the other hand, a victim is shot in the street, he or she will not be covered by any insurance and will be granted a compensation pension, as provided for in that law. It goes without saying that the amounts will be substantially different in both cases. In conclusion, Mr. Chair, ladies and gentlemen, ministers, ladies and gentlemen, I have the impression that the government, in creating this system, wanted first and foremost to ensure that it would be able to cope financially with the potential compensation of victims in the future. But I have the impression above all that the government has sinned in haste. What you should have done is wait for the recommendations of the commission of inquiry and implement them in a coordinated, concerted manner, taking the time necessary for this task. If the victims felt that action needed to be taken, many agreed that they would have preferred us to take the time to provide that comprehensive response that they expected so much for them, but especially for others that we never hoped for. There is still much work to be done. The task force will have to operate at full speed. In order to do so, you will have to give it the means and ensure that each of the speakers can be heard. We will be attentive to this and will not fail to take the necessary legislative initiatives if progress is not made.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-06-54-plenair-ip178x.u97	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, the background has been described by previous speakers, mainly by Mrs Somers and Mr Frédéric; he is therefore well known. Nevertheless, the situation is dramatic, as is the situation. Instead, I would like to focus on the results of the work carried out by the committee of inquiry, which we have taken into account in the Committee on Public Health. Although everything is not yet perfect, we have been able to make considerable progress, of course in the interests of the victims. First of all, I would like to point out that at the end of the work on the first part, "Assistance and relief", the Commission of Inquiry into the Attacks highlighted the courageous attitude and effectiveness of our relief services and of the women and men who, on 22 March, assisted the victims of these unspeakable acts. On that occasion, a series of recommendations were also made in the interim report in order to improve assistance to victims. Moreover, the government and parliament have not remained inactive. A series of measures were taken after the attacks. I think we sometimes forget to recall the speed with which these measures were taken. Thus, the framework for the operation of the Fund to assist victims of intentional acts of violence has been adapted to the very specific needs of victims of terrorism. I will come back to the introduction of the one-stop shop, which has made a lot of talk. Although its work was not perfect, this one-stop shop was praised by the victims' associations themselves. A bill by the MR Group was unanimously passed by our Assembly on 19 May 2016. It is forgotten that this act, which became law, provided for the doubling of the intervention ceiling from 65 000 to 125 000 euros for the main aid and from 15 000 to 30 000 euros for emergency aid. It also provided for the King to recognize acts of violence as acts of terrorism, including attacks abroad. A third element was the text which provided for the extension of the intervention to indirect victims, to persons living in a lasting family relationship with the victim. Subsequently, several royal decrees made it possible to implement other measures. I'll mention three of them. The first is the removal of the obligation to have a sentencing judgement for the victims of terrorism, which allowed them to be compensated more quickly. However, it is known that the speed of compensation has been raised on several occasions by the victims' associations. The second is the removal of the principle of territoriality from the Victims Fund. Finally, there is an extension of the deadline for submitting applications for financial assistance. And then there was a kind of "alarm bell," that call that we can't ignore and that we haven't ignored. These are requests from victims' associations to be heard and to share the very concrete problems they had faced. Let us acknowledge that these associations of victims have been heard by the Attentats Committee, by the competent ministers, including the Prime Minister, by the Public Health Committee. There was a desire for communication and transparency between, on the one hand, the wishes of the associations of victims who have experienced these tragedies and, above all, the consequences, and, on the other hand, the political will to remedy a concern that we have all been confronted with. The Commission of Inquiry Attentats decided, after hearing the testimony of the victims, to deepen the aspect relating to the follow-up of the victims and to formulate quickly concrete and effective recommendations, so that the victims are better surrounded, better advised and better guided, certainly at the administrative level. This point was also noted as being weak by victim associations. For this reason, when the bill before us to give victims of terrorism a status of national solidarity arrived in the Health Committee, all the political groups of both the majority and the opposition – confirmed by Mr Frédéric – decided to wait for the commission of inquiry to complete the work on this aspect. Mr Frédéric, I am therefore somewhat surprised to hear you say that we did not wait for the recommendations of the commission of inquiry, because in the end we waited for them and took them into account in the bill defended in the health committee. Of course, at present, the fullness of the points could not be worked out in depth. On the other hand, Minister Geens came to explain specifically the willingness he had to work in the future through a task force and to remedy some contentious issues.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-06-54-plenair-ip178x.u98	I wish to intervene without entering into a controversy because what matters to us today is to work on this serious issue. We must not rewrite the story either. It was under our leadership that we set ourselves in order with regard to the agenda of the committee of inquiry, otherwise you wanted to go. It was under our leadership that we auditioned victims that you didn't want to audition at first. You're here to defend the majority, which I can understand. Everyone's job! Whatever you say, we can see the glass half empty or half full. I was objective in my speech: I said that there were a number of advances that I welcomed. Apart from this, there are fundamental recommendations of the commission of inquiry (such as the compensation fund) unanimously approved, which are not found anywhere. You're telling me that the Minister of Justice has come to say it. Yeah, he's here. That's the least I can do! He came because we insisted on him coming. He came to say, "I'm going, I'm preparing." We will be very attentive. He has a little time to prepare, but as early as September, we will question him, and if there is nothing concrete on the table, we will put forward a proposal ourselves. I am sure that, in the constructive spirit in which we are all, we will join forces to create, unanimously, this compensation fund that is far beyond what you are going to vote today. Because, ladies and gentlemen, what you are going to vote today does not and does not concern the victims of 22 March. Insurance was provided in both cases. We don't fix anything by that. And, in relation to the amounts, it is idem: one refers to a grid of the 1954 law which is still in Belgian francs and which is almost illegible. Since you're talking about it, the highly sympathetic Task Force is a February proposal of President Dewael taken over by the government and set up in March. It met at the end of June. The French-speaking victims present were not able to participate in the debates as it took place in Dutch and without translation. I did not say that in my speech, but you have led me to say this: if that is the consideration we have for the victims! There is something to be re-examined in the way it works, and we have a collective political responsibility in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-06-54-plenair-ip178x.u99	Mr. Frédéric, you said you wouldn't want to go to polemic. I think you're right. With this kind of subject, there is no controversy to have, there is action. You said that the majority in the Health Committee did not want to hear the victims' associations. I'm not gonna argue about that. I would just like to have a report on what has happened in committee, what has been said in committee and what has initially justified what you call refusal. Finally, and this is a question that I personally asked the victims' associations, do you want to move forward, as things stand, on the basis of a project which is not 100% finalised but which takes into account the recommendations of the Attentats commission or do you want to wait for a project which is 100% finalised, which means giving a vote in relation to a project which is already available to victims and associations? The associations have been extremely clear about this. They preferred to move forward as part of the project that was being presented to the Health Committee. Subsequently, Minister Geens himself said, there would be a number of adjustments, adaptations that fall within the purview of the Department of Justice. To this end, it has set up a task force which has already met on 28 June and which has given a number of elements or cells on which people will work to refine the project as presented. The Ministers for Social Affairs and Justice have confirmed in committee that beyond the status we are about to adopt, we should continue our efforts, which I have just said. In order to ensure a coherent approach, regardless of the institutional structure of our state, a task force has been set up. It is important to note that it is inter-federal because it is well known that there are competences both at the federal level and at the level of the federated entities. The fact that it has been set up and that it has already met is proof that there must be progress in the field. Where I join you, Mr. Frédéric, is that, of course, there must be guidelines. In the aftermath of the holiday, a number of elements must have advanced. I agree with you when you say that in the PS Group, you will come back together to the Minister of Justice to see the progress of work, to be able to fine-tune, as I said, the project that we are going to vote on today. It seems to me that we have shown a constructive spirit, particularly through working groups. Let us acknowledge that in committee we have had open and democratic discussions on the many amendments tabled, so that we have been able to reach a consensus on several occasions. As I always say, if you want a perfect bill before you even vote on it, it is the best way to never vote on it. The text presented today is the result of work carried out in consultation between the majority and the opposition. Of course, it will not be 100% acceptable to all parties. However, it was the subject of consensus. I understand that in the Committee on Public Health, two political groups abstained. I imagine, Mr Frédéric, that, as you said, your group will not support the project as it stands. I therefore assume that you will be camping on your positions, namely, abstention as defined in committee. We shall now see what will happen, especially since 22 amendments have been adopted. I insist that they were in perfect agreement. That is why I would regret that there is no unanimity on this important work, but I must respect everyone's choice. Of the 22 amendments, five receive particular attention from my political group. The first concerns litigation, which will now be referred to the Labour Court, with the aim of dealing more quickly with possible remedies. It should be noted, however, that the bill provides for the establishment of conciliation mechanisms to prevent this from happening. The second amendment concerns the grounds for exclusion, which have been clearly defined. Secondly, free public transport, even if originally planned, is now explicitly enshrined. A unique medical expertise is also planned. Finally, if, initially, the status of the victims were to be limited to persons having Belgian nationality or having their principal residence in our country, the aid will - as you also pointed out, Mr Frédéric - now be extended to persons who do not have a formal link with Belgium, through the Commission for financial aid to victims of intentional acts of violence. In the end, this is only justice. It was necessary to adapt the text to that effect. We will of course have to continue with the reforms in order to be able to respond to all the recommendations of the Committee of Inquiry, and I am thinking specifically of three aspects. This is the review of collective insurance as an objective liability - both insurers and ASBL TRIP stressed the need to change compulsory liability insurance - the evaluation of the TRIP mechanism and, more than anything else, we plead for the extremely rapid establishment of a reference person who will have to make proactive contact with the victims. That is what has been criticized so far. One-stop shopping was one thing, but the extremely rapid establishment of a person who will be able to make physical contact with the victims seems to me a very important demand, which responds to the will of the victims' associations. Finally, many victims were able to testify to the slow pace with which insurers paid their compensation. These testimonies must also encourage us to promote mechanisms that combine speed and efficiency. It is imperative to avoid the phenomenon of over-victimization as much as possible and to add unnecessary administrative hassles to the suffering of victims and their relatives. Administration and administrative hassles have been taken into account in this project. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as we have this debate, we know that Daesh is losing speed in certain cities such as Mosul and Raqqa. This does not mean that Daesh disappears from the map, and that is what is dramatic. We must continue to work at a high level of security, but the most important thing is that no attack is excluded in the future. That is why, perhaps, if new attacks occur and new loopholes also appear in the assistance provided to the victims, we will have to continually review our position to allow these victims to be treated in the most humane way possible. Above all, we will have to do our duty with regard to the assistance that the State must give to those who are victims of irresponsible terrorist attacks, but for whom it is not directly responsible either. On the other hand, the State must shoulder its responsibilities. I hear that some political groups will not support the work we have done together, but I can only regret it. We will wait for the proposals of the Minister of Justice, but in the future we will have to work in a united, majority and opposition manner to meet the expectations of the victims and the associations that represent them.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-06-54-plenair-ip178x.u100	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on 22 March 2016, our country was hit by attacks at Zaventem Airport and, later that day, at Maalbeek Metro Station. Blind violence caused 32 deaths, 17 Belgians and 15 foreigners. Those 32 loved ones were a mother, a father, a brother or a sister, a grandmother or a grandfather, a best friend or a colleague of many people. A lot of people suffered serious physical injuries. The psychological consequences also left very deep traces. Sometimes very heavy and specialized treatments were needed. Some of them remain necessary until today. Shortly after the attacks, we didn't get caught up. Something happened immediately. The Minister of Justice explained that. Think of the victims' fund and the doubling of the ceilings for financial contributions, for the main aid from EUR 65 000 to EUR 125 000 and for emergency aid from EUR 15 000 to EUR 30 000. Belgian victims of foreign attacks have also been added. Think also of the application periods, which have been extended to three years. The procedural costs were increased to EUR 6 000 and funeral costs were also increased. That happened pretty soon after the attacks. The unique window, to which there was rightly a great deal of demand, has proactively contacted victims. EUR 1.4 million was paid out. It is clear that there is still a need for refinement, especially in the context of the reference person. It's still in the plans. An agreement was also reached with the insurance sector on moral damage. For this purpose, the victims received benefits. Was the work done with that? No. There was a lot of discussion back and forth in the committee, but there too we quickly reached a consensus. It was said that we should wait for the recommendations of the Committee of Inquiry, whatever happened. Mrs De Block had already put forward a draft statute within her powers. We said that we would wait for the recommendations and see how we could optimise and make improvements. I was very pleasantly surprised at the rather exceptional way of working together, the consensus and commitment of many fellow Members, both from the majority and the opposition. We also agreed on the amendments. We discussed this in a positive way in working groups. Apart from the political game, we can present here a text that has been widely supported. I did not get the same impression today, but in committee we saw a completely different vote and a lot of support for a lot of amendments. It is true that we work in two stages. This is, of course, also due to the fact that the stage that is still to come, and which certainly falls within the competence of the Minister of Justice, requires a little more technicality and study work. It is also intended to await the task force which started on 28 June. However, there is already a very good piece of work for this today, a work on the establishment of the status of national solidarity and recovery pensions, which also looks at how medical and psychological care can be reimbursed. On the fringe, but also important, a harmonisation of pensions for military and civilian victims has been agreed. Following a very clear recommendation from the Committee of Inquiry, a solution has also been added to the draft for non-Belgen and for those who have no permanent residence in our country, to whom the benefits can be applied inherently to the statute. This is a first step, the result of a very nice cooperation. It is, of course, important that the second step should also be followed. The Minister of Justice has committed himself to taking that second step. This second step also has to do with many elements that need to be discussed inter-federally, as legal assistance and inheritance duties are also involved. Even only transport needs to be discussed on an inter-federal basis. In addition to the federal component, there is also the component of the Regions regarding other tax provisions. In this respect, it is necessary to establish agreements with the fellow Members of the Regions and the Communities. The Minister also committed himself to finding a solution throughout the discussion of subrogation. The intention is to present the texts on this issue to Parliament in September or October, so that the second important step in the Statute can be enshrined in the legislation as soon as possible. Madam Minister, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you for what is going on today, for constructive cooperation on majority and opposition. It is a statute with an important step, and we hope that people who are waiting for compensation can get it quickly. Of course, we hope that there will be no new victims in the future, so that the Statute will no longer be necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-06-54-plenair-ip178x.u101	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, 22 March is a date that none of us will ever forget in their lives. In January, 9 months after the attacks, the victims were heard in the investigation committee about the attacks. This was actually a painful event for all of us, because many witnesses came to tell us that they felt abandoned by us, by the government. They had to look for what help they were entitled to and were sent from the cabinet to the wall. They had to prove again and again that they were victims. They had to wait a long time for financial aid. And so on. It is, I believe, our duty as a society to care for the victims of terror. Such a hearing in a committee of inquiry in which the victims testify that they really feel abandoned must not be allowed to happen again in the future. The fact that they're victims of terror is bad enough. We must at all costs avoid them becoming victims for a second time. The Committee of Inquiry has immediately addressed this problem and has speeded up the preparation of an interim report. It listed the aid that already exists today and made a number of general recommendations. It also made a number of specific recommendations with regard to the draft before us today. Among other things: flexible, fast, free and non-conflict procedures, rather than the cumbersome dispute procedure. Better provisions on exclusions, on victims of another nationality, and on free public transport. The government has also immediately taken this issue into account. She immediately started a draft law and brought it to committee. There were a large number of good, clear measures. For example, reimbursement of all medical costs and the granting of a recovery pension. What I found very pleasurable was that, after submitting the draft on the limits of majority and opposition, we were able to work together on a number of amendments which transpose a series of recommendations from the Committee of Inquiry into legislation. It has been a very good and very good thing that we have been able to work on this together. Our group was somewhat disappointed that we cannot immediately adopt a package of measures here. However, we all know that there are often practical objections between dream and action. That is why I call on the government today to maintain the announced timing, which it has given very clearly for the implementation of the remaining recommendations, so that these measures can also be rapidly translated into reality. In any event, we shall be voting for the amended draft today with conviction.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-06-54-plenair-ip178x.u102	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, today, 16 months after the attacks on 22 March, we should have welcomed the adoption of provisions to recognise, compensate, pay the costs they have to bear and guarantee compensation for the damage suffered. This will not be the case because the victims' loud and repeated requests to us and to the government to put in place a rapid, efficient, automatic mechanism, with an interlocutor who intervenes, who finances, who reimburses, who arranges to manage the necessary interventions and the financial means, have not been met. How did we get there? According to my analysis – which will allow us to respond to Mr. Thiéry's intervention – when the government had to intervene in response to this disaster, it operated in a closed circle, as it does in most cases. He tried to find solutions and did not immediately open himself to meeting and listening to the victims. Moreover – and this is not the first time – this government has not benefited from the experiences of previous disasters. During the Ghislenghien disaster or during railway accidents, the victims experienced the same situation, they approached the government and the parliament to ask for the establishment of a single rapid response mechanism. Mrs Marghem was the bearer of such a project, following technological disasters, as it was called. The project began several years after the disaster. There was therefore experience, a search for solutions to put in place a system that allowed rapid intervention with each victim and then to address the various agencies and insurances that had to compensate for the interventions. The Government did not take advantage of this mechanism and did not realize that there was an acquis and provisions that could be extended to disasters caused by terrorism, as a result of which the victims experienced the same situations of abandonment. The meeting with the victims took place late and it was when they organized, when they asked, that the government finally heard them, as did the commission of inquiry. We were already in January 2017. The bill we are discussing today was already conceived earlier. This government has opted for a course of action prior to sufficient attention being given to the victims. When the victims intervened in the Committee of Inquiry, the Committee on Health and the Committee on Justice, we already knew that the project put on the table to pay for health care and to set up a national recognition status and a compensation pension would make it difficult to give up this path in order to move towards another, more efficient, compensation fund. We could only hope for an improvement in this mechanism and a mobilization of the government to present a second project. Thus, the members of the Public Health Commission, after requesting the hearing of the victims, asked Minister Geens to share his bill with us. These victims were remarkable during the hearings. They had the courage to explain to us the problems and sufferings they were experiencing, the anger felt. They were able to share with us the analyses and leads that they suggested to us while remaining worthy and without expressing their anger. Our request to Minister Geens was a condition for continuing to work on the Health bill. In the meantime, the Board of Inquiry had also incorporated into its recommendations a mechanism for the use of a single window, a person or reference system and a rapid, automatic and subrogatory response. This would have been possible with the creation of a fund. Minister Geens has come. I have taken the trouble of reading the report of our committee twice. I was wondering if I was the only one who found that Minister Geens had put a lot of energy into repeating that the subject was complex, that we should take into account the assurances, that he could not give us a deadline for tabling a bill in Parliament. It recognized the need for an automatic system, that of a one-stop shop, and a reference system. It also recognized the need to ensure rapid response. However, in the responses he put more energy into convincing us that it would take time, that he did not know how far he could go, and that the fund system would probably not be retained. I cannot therefore come to the conclusion that we will be able to obtain a fund. We will be able to rely on a mechanism – this is what is announced – which is not necessarily the one expected. He announced to us the establishment of an inter-federal task force and a technical task force, which must integrate the associations of victims. But if we integrate citizens, we must of course, during these meetings, ensure that these citizens understand what is happening there and have the capacity to work equally with representatives of ministers and administrations and insurance representatives, who are also involved in one of these task forces. Today, we do not have these guarantees of a final work, nor of a compensation fund that will operate in a rapid and subrogatory manner. The project guarantees the reimbursement of health care, the recognition of a victim status, the right to a compensation pension through structures which today apply to civilian victims of war and through administrations which assess and intervene in the face of disability or disability, such as the Auxiliary Fund for Sickness and Disability Insurance (CAAMI), the Medical and Legal Office (OML) and the DG War Victims. I have already said on several occasions, in this and in other cases, that if we use the OML to assess the rates of incapacity and invalidity with a view to granting compensation pensions, we will have to make sure that the functioning of this structure, which now has many operating deficits, is improved. But this is yet another problem, which we will necessarily deal with during the evaluation in the coming weeks. Amendments, worked by the majority and the opposition, have significantly improved the system, since they have allowed the appeals to be brought before the Labour Court (at the suggestion of my colleague Mr. Van Hecke); to reduce the categories of excluded persons and, in particular, to renounce the exclusion of non-Belgian and non-Belgian persons; to extend to two years the period during which a victim may apply; to abolish the condition of a 30-day incapacity for work in order to benefit from the arrangements, i.e. the reimbursement of travel costs for health care and the treatment of health costs not covered by the existing nomenclature. Nevertheless, some amendments were not accepted in committee. That is why we are either repositioning them with others, or we will support the amendments tabled in plenary on the disability rate, the psychotherapeutic choice that must be left to people, even if, of course, we must ensure that the best psychotherapeutic choices are offered to people, given the circumstances. I would say that the amendments that have been accepted so far make the bill too small within its scope, but also make it acceptable and acceptable. Minister, we will not vote for this bill, nor will we vote against it. We will abstain because it is incomplete, because it lacks what is essential and because we do not have confidence in obtaining and completing a compensation fund and an efficient, fast, single system. Our Ecolo-Groen group will therefore abstain from this bill because of what it does not contain, because it does not guarantee to get what it does not contain, but by recognizing, however, the improvements that have been made to the scheme and by recognizing the minimal but nonetheless extended scope of the bill that is on the Orders of the Day.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-06-54-plenair-ip178x.u103	Mrs Gerkens, thank you for your speech. It was agreed not to argue. I think it's true. I think there are some elements on which we will not agree, as you say. I have a question to ask you about this reversal. To my knowledge, in committee, you voted in favour and today you announce that you will abstain. It's a little surprising, isn't it?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-06-54-plenair-ip178x.u104	No, it is not surprising because I have just taken the time to explain to you that the bill introduced in committee has been amended, as a result of work, and as such, what is acceptable but in too small a field. Here, we are voting in a much more comprehensive way and our vote means that we must complete the mechanism with the project expected from Mr Geens. However, the way in which Minister Geens presented his scheme does not give us the guarantee that it will be completed. It is therefore a way of saying that the work must be put back on the job. I really hope that in the future, and that in September, we will not regret not having rejected this, not having the project announced by Minister Geens. It is a political position that says that this is not enough and that the rest needs to be done. Mr. Thiéry, the rest should have intervened at the same time. It's clear we had time. By hearing the victims, the government could have said: "We know that we have to function like this. We have a fund, a system that exists for disaster victims." It was possible to intervene and come with the two texts. Contrary to what you said, the victims did not say: "Let's adopt this text and then take the time to..." The victims asked us to come with a complete and suitable device rather than want to come quickly. You even intended to come with a device on March 22, 2017 on the occasion of the anniversary. They told us not to attach ourselves to a date but to come with provisions that are complete. Mr Thiéry, that is why our vote combines the recommendations of the commission of inquiry that are not fully recognized and the recognition of the work done on the project of Minister De Block.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-06-54-plenair-ip178x.u105	Mrs Gerkens, I hear your argument. However, I am very surprised to see this turnaround, since, between the vote in committee and today, there is not much more that has happened, except that on 28 June 2017, there was a kick off, that is to say, a first meeting of the task force in question, which was the subject of a press release in which we find the fullness of the points you have just raised and which would justify, as you say, the fact that you are changing your opinion between the committee and today. Also, I do not understand your position at all, as you have, through this task force, the answer to the concern you have just referred to. There was therefore no reason to change your voting position since the committee's work.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-06-54-plenair-ip178x.u106	So I will be even clearer! Where I lack confidence, it is in this government's commitment to act in practice. Your government has not used us to seeing it listen properly to citizens, to honour commitments and to realize all the measures. That is why we should abstain. I explained to you the content, why, and our demands and expectations. Why do you want me to give you a blank screen on what is essential to complete this bill?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-06-54-plenair-ip178x.u107	We are not going to argue endlessly. Why was trust present in committee and not now? Why were you giving a white-seing in committee and more now? I'm very surprised, but again, everyone will judge!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-06-54-plenair-ip178x.u108	I am not on the same register in relation to this work in committee and the vote in plenary, which represents the commitment of the group and of Parliament as a whole to a government on a full response. In this area, it is also our responsibility to have global visions from time to time.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-06-54-plenair-ip178x.u109	Mr. Speaker, ladies and gentlemen, the consideration of this bill must, first of all, be an opportunity for me to express once again our support for all the victims and also to say how poignant, responsible their testimony was, how much they reminded us of how much we had to live up to their legitimate demands. I thank the associations of victims as well as all those who, in the shadows, since these terrible attacks in Brussels, supported and cared for the victims and their loved ones, encouraged them to fight. In the aftermath of the attacks, we all stressed how remarkably the relief and care services had done their job. I would like to say here that the victims subsequently felt abandoned. They yelled at him in a commission of inquiry, yelled at the government. It was already months ago. Some have actually felt abandoned, some have really been mistreated. The State has not lived up to what it should have been able to do, all this time, for the victims. The demands of the victims were however simple and terribly legitimate: to take them by hand; to accompany them in this administrative maze; to allow the State to be their interlocutor and not to be left on account of the insurers; to receive financial compensation. Some of them found themselves with terrible physical and psychological suffering in the face of the loss of a relative, but also in the face of major economic difficulties because they lost their jobs and sometimes had to continue their activity (I am thinking in particular of this young hairdresser who had to maintain her activity when she was no longer in a position to do it). They were the victims of this horrific attack, but also of a bureaucracy, an institutional straitjacket and private insurers. The government made big statements about them, typing on the table and hammering that it was over. May I say to you, ladies and gentlemen, that the victims were again today in front of the insurers, who told them: "It is three hundred euros. Either you sign or it'll be nothing!"? Our responsibility is to be able to remedy this and to take the necessary action as soon as possible. This bill is a first step. I am, of course, not opposed to its content, but it is a first step which remains fundamentally inadequate, because it lacks the aspect which, for us, was truly part of what should have been immediately taken into account. I am referring to a single way of indemnification with a view to automatic and state-issued financial compensation, which would therefore turn to insurers - like the French model, which is not unique. Of course, with respect to this bill, I have not always been well seen by the government. It was a little difficult. At the same time, it was worth it. Indeed, the text could be improved. Progress has thus been made. First of all, I am thinking of considering the victims as such and not on the basis of their nationality. Second, reimbursements for medical and paramedical expenses will be more generous - including for situations that are not reimbursed today. Medical travel will also be covered. In addition, the project extends the status of victim to receive the compensation pension, which will be defied. In addition, it is envisaged that the time limits for submitting such applications will be extended. Long before recourse to the Labour Court in the event of refusal to recognize incapacity or to grant a compensation pension, the law provides for a conciliation procedure. I'm not going to quote them all. There are others. After a difficult start, let us recall, it is true that we were able to work together, majority and opposition. The majority have been able to consider common work, to listen to us. We were then able to table amendments that were either validated or reworked together to ensure that they were adequate from a legislative and technical point of view. However, we have not been able to obtain satisfaction on some points. I had tabled a series of amendments in committee; I am resubmitting them today. I am thinking in particular of the long-term psychological support that some victims need. I am also thinking of the victims admitted to a hospital that they had not chosen, or those who have to deal today with important fee supplements. You know that in this regard, I have undertaken an approach to hospital managers and medical specialists who all consider that surcharges can be prohibited in the event of attacks. However, this work must continue as part of the reform of hospital funding. We also wanted to resubmit an amendment on the definition of entitled persons. Victims are affected, but too often the direct and indirect consequences on their loved ones are forgotten. Of course, there has been progress and I recognize it. This is an important first step. However, ladies and gentlemen, we cannot be content with this project. Indeed, it remains prodigiously insufficient in relation to what we could have done and what we should have done. You know how much I regretted this too tiring and terribly late approach. A much earlier, more comprehensive, effective and humane approach would have been needed. We had tabled two bills with Georges Dallemagne many months ago. They dealt with the status of national solidarity, with all the stakes related to health care, paramedical care, the costs to be borne, but also with a single way of compensation via a guarantee fund financed by insurance, following the model of Ghislenghien and technological accidents, and with a unique reference person who could take each victim and his or her relatives by hand to accompany them in their efforts. This would prevent them from repeating over and over again the drama they have experienced, the steps they have taken. This bureaucracy, this institutional strain to which they have been subjected, is a real abuse that comes in addition to these attacks. Colleagues, you must be able to hear that the victims, who have shouted how much they have been abandoned in recent weeks, are disappointed. They themselves recognize the progress of this project. But understand that with the passing of time, with the absence of a text on a single way of compensation a year and a half later, how logical it is that they should express their disappointment. You must be able to hear that, at present, victims are still left on the edge of the road, since they have not been able to receive any financial assistance of any kind, since they have not had any significant physical or psychological damage. We abstained in committee. We will abstain in plenary session and I would like you to translate this abstention into the fact that we must be able to translate the decisions that are set out in this bill into concrete action, having been substantially revised. And you must also understand our forbearance as an urgent request for the government to honour the commitment we have asked it to make on all aspects of compensation and financial compensation. Of course, money will never be able to compensate for all the suffering that has been endured. No financial reparation will, of course, be able to repair these injuries or the loss of a loved one for those who have lost one. At the same time, this financial compensation can at least try to mitigate the damage suffered by the victims. In conclusion, I would like to reiterate that, in substance, the State also has an obligation and a protective role. The intervention of the State in the form of compensation, if necessary, not, if indispensable, is because it must be based both on the principle of solidarity but also on the principle of reparation to citizens that the State has not been able to protect. Colleagues, I hope we will resume work as soon as possible through a second government bill. Madam Minister, your colleague, the Minister of Justice, is not here, but I am counting on the government as a whole to come, I hope, as early as September, working in close liaison and consultation with the victims' associations. You will be able to come at that time with an answer worthy of the name, as other countries have done before us and as it is urgent today that Belgium can do so, in order to assume its role and responsibilities.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-06-54-plenair-ip178x.u110	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to refer to Mr Gerkens' speech. Over the last few months, we have tried in various committees to work very constructively together to find a solution that is good for the victims. We have tried this in the Committee of Inquiry, with a unanimous opinion. However, I would stress that that opinion does not make any choice as to the best solution. It is therefore not said that the draft law which has already been submitted is the right solution, but amendments have been suggested if the draft law is to be continued. This is a first step. As many speakers have said, several further initiatives will have to be taken to implement a number of other recommendations. The problem is this. A year ago, the government made the choice to work through the law on compensation for war victims. It is not intended to blame her for that choice a year later, but in our opinion that was not the best way to find a good solution. In fact, there was no unanimity in the Committee of Inquiry. It is true that many suggested adjustments were actually made, which was a good thing. However, it would have been better to go initially to another system. It has already been mentioned, unfortunately we in Belgium already have some experience of disasters and of the problems faced by the victims. Not only after the disaster in Gellingen, but also after the Swielbrand and after the Buizingen train disaster, the victims were confronted with very complex procedures and with insurance companies that would rather work against them than actively cooperate to find a solution. As a result, especially after the gas explosion in Gellingen, a law on technological disasters was passed at the time. It was an initiative of Mrs Marghem. The aim was to provide a solution and to give insurance companies a greater responsibility to set up a fund in order to be able to make payments very quickly. That is why the Committee of Inquiry has suggested that this method be used, either by an amendment of that law or by another law which is worked out in accordance with the same principles. If we had opted for this a year ago, we would now have a different debate and we would have been a step further towards a smooth and good compensation for the victims. Once again, a number of good adjustments have indeed been made. I am thinking, for example, of enlargement to include foreign victims, which has been the subject of a difficult and difficult discussion, but which has been regulated. The appeal procedure was also simplified; originally it was necessary to address the Council of State because it concerns administrative decisions, and the choice of a profession in the labour court is therefore a better solution. In addition, there is expertise there. There are still important steps to be taken. There have been recommendations to provide legal aid for victims, who are often faced with very complex situations. Meanwhile, the desks have responded very positively and are willing to cooperate, which is a positive signal. However, work must be done on the one-stop shop system. After all, more than a year after the attacks, it has to be said that, despite many announcements, very little has been done to help and guide people in practice. There is an important responsibility for the government. The task force needs to start. It is reported that he met on 28 June. The proposal for the Task Force was formulated by President Dewael and dates from February. So a lot of time has passed before the task force takes action. I understand that Minister Geens says he still needs time to prepare and put some things in order. He promised to do so after the summer recess, but we will have to follow up and question the Minister. When I see how long it took for the task force to enter into force, I fear that the additional measures that are absolutely necessary will not come soon. We can only ask the government to make this a priority and to support it all, not just Minister Geens. It is the responsibility of several ministers to work on this and to take major steps forward in September. My group will play a constructive part in this, because at the end of the day we all have the same objective, in particular to ensure that the victims are properly compensated and properly compensated. That is our objective. So you can count on that, but at the moment progress is not enough for us to be able to approve the text. Hence our abstention, as my colleague has also motivated.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-06-54-plenair-ip178x.u111	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, on 22 March 2016, Belgium was hit by the attacks at Brussels-National Airport and Maelbeek Metro Station. Many people lost their lives or were injured during these dramatic events. The victims and their relatives carry indescribable physical and psychological sequelae. More than a year after the facts, the government is trying to commit itself through an act of collective solidarity towards these people. The main objective of the bill is, according to its title, to establish a status of national solidarity, to grant a compensation pension and to reimburse the medical care of victims of terrorist acts. The bill's explanatory statement goes on to state that the rights inherent in this status are intended to provide the victim with the means to rebuild his or her life, in particular to meet the many costs of the harmful event. However, it must be noted that this bill, as presented today in our chamber, is clearly insufficient, despite the many amendments that have been tabled jointly by the majority and the opposition. Regardless of the absence in the text of the mention of a flat-rate financial advance - and I will come back to that - according to the estimates of the victims' associations, the compensation provided for in the draft law would amount, for a victim suffering a rate of incapacity of 50 %, to more than EUR 5 000 per year. You will not disagree, ladies and gentlemen, that amount must be described as derisory in that it does not allow victims to rebuild their lives, in the terms used in the bill. Let me go back to its development process. Should I remind you that initially the government was opposed to the possibility for victims to come to testify in committee? It was only through a strong gesture by the opposition, which I greet, that the victims were able to exercise one of their most essential rights: that of being listened to. Before any mechanism of compensation, tax exemption from a pension or free public transport, a victim wishes to be heard. At the hearing of the victims and their representatives in committee, one of the victims told us about the initially psychological, but then physical, suffering that it had endured since the attacks. It was between the two explosions at Zaventem airport. Although she did not have the feeling of being physically injured, she nevertheless remains, to use her words, "psychologically destroyed". The victim told us, however, that she will not fall within the scope of this bill. Although it is a direct victim of the attacks, it is likely that it will never meet the requirement of a 10% disability rate set out in the bill. This additional requirement, which remains unchanged despite the criticisms of the victims' associations and despite the opposition's amendments, will deprive too many victims of a compensation pension. However, it is essential for direct victims of terrorist acts to be entitled to a compensation pension as soon as a disability is found, regardless of the degree of disability. In this regard, our group is again introducing an amendment to remove the additional condition of a 10% disability rate under clause 5 of the bill. Let me also return to the French model. I took back a press release issued this Tuesday, July 4, by the French Guarantee Fund, which has existed since 1986, which provides an update on the treatment of the victims of the Nice bombing of July 14, 2016. As at 30 June 2017, 98% of the relatives of the deceased, 426 persons, and 98% of the injured, 196 persons, were covered by the compensation procedure. In other words, less than a year after the Nice bombing, almost all victims, whether direct or indirect, were able to benefit from care and compensation. Similarly, in a press release of 27 March 2017, the Board of Directors of the Guarantee Fund unanimously supported the principle of recognition of the harm of anxiety of direct victims and of the harm of waiting and of the concern of indirect victims of terrorist attacks. These prejudices are not the subject of any particular attention in the bill before us today. I regret it and regret it. Similarly, I would like to point out that the French Compensation Fund is making a provision to meet the first costs. For example, 100 per cent of the victims of the attacks in France received an initial provision within one month of the acceptance of their case. It is essential that our domestic legislation provide for a similar mechanism. The Minister of Justice announced in committee that a bill would be passed in the fall. However, we must ask ourselves why we did not propose this bill along with the bill we are discussing today. Both of these bills should have been discussed at the same time. After the attacks in Brussels, some victims told us that they had to wait three months to receive a first treatment. This is far too long. Our group had tabled an amendment to that effect in our committee work, which was rejected by the majority. It is re-deposit today. In essence, it provides that, in order to avoid any delay in the reimbursement process, we propose that an advance of EUR 20 000 be paid at the expense of the State, an advance which may be increased by EUR 10 000 in the second year if the costs are exceeded. On the compensation mechanism applied in French law, regardless of the fact that the Minister of Justice told us in committee that the French and Belgian systems could not be compared, it must be noted that the French system allows for full compensation, both physical and psychological, and faster than the Belgian system, both for the victims of terrorist acts but also for the relatives of the victims who died or were heavily affected. The speed of implementation of the French compensation mechanisms depends heavily on the creation of a single window. The creation of this counter under Belgian law is reflected in the recommendations of the Commission of Inquiry into Terrorist Attacks. However, it has not been incorporated into this bill. A victim must therefore deal with a multitude of insurance agencies before obtaining information. The one-stop shop would therefore be the only contact person responsible for the full range of actions to be taken by victims. I go back to the risk of discrimination between the insurance mechanisms created by the bill. The Minister of Justice has stated that compensation for victims of terrorist attacks is provided under Belgian law through insurance bodies. In this regard, the Act of 1 April 2007 provides that insurers are required to compensate the victims affected in the event of an industrial accident, fire or traffic accident. The compensation in such cases will therefore be total. On the other hand, if a victim of an act of terrorism falls outside the scope of 1 April 2007 but within the scope of the present one, he or she will not be able to receive the same compensation. In other words, depending on whether the terrorist attack is covered by an insurance policy (work injury, property or traffic accident) the compensation of the victims will be different. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, there is still a great deal of work to be done before meeting all the expectations and demands of the victims. If this text is voted on today, it should be stressed that many victims do not fall within its scope. For this reason, but also for the many other reasons mentioned, we will not support the project. We will abstain because we do not want to counter it entirely. It has the merit of being there, but it does not suit us in its entirety.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-06-54-plenair-ip178x.u112	Mr President, first of all I would like to thank my fellow Members, Mr Steven Vandeput and Mr Koen Geens, as well as all the members of the Health Committee for their good cooperation. Following on from the Terrorist Attacks Committee of Inquiry, we have tried to reach an agreement on majority and opposition. This draft law must be seen together with Mr Geens's draft law, which is still on the way and on which he has explained it in committee. I understand that there is great impatience, but Minister None said that he needed more time to work out the draft. I would then like to refute a number of points. The government wanted to reserve compensation for the beneficiaries and the reimbursement of psychological expenses for indirect victims only to those who have a lasting emotional relationship with the direct victim of an act of terrorism. As explained in the explanatory memorandum, this is linked, among other things, to the fact that the government also wants to take into account psychological harm, Ms.Caprasse, in addition to physical harm to determine the quality of life of the victim. On the other hand, some of the amounts you have quoted must be included. Beneficiaries are entitled to a pension of 14,000 euros per year, for life. This pension is paid to cover the loss of income within the household. There are other advantages that Ms. Fonck cited. The concept of entitlement has been expanded to two levels. It includes the legal or de facto cohabitant, a very broad concept, to correspond to the current societal context. Dependent children are children under the age of 18 or children over the age of 18 who are entitled to family allowances. An amendment was also adopted to extend the concept of de facto cohabitant to a permanent and emotional relationship with the victim. Indeed, there have been situations of cohabitation between brothers and sisters. I think all the amendments have been very constructive. Is that it? Well, now we can finally get to work with the administrations that already have experience with war victims and where a separate cell is now installed. In a manner of speaking, immediately after the vote one can get to work with them. In the meantime, status information is already published on the DG War Victims website, as well as the amounts and a clear description of the rights. In my opinion, it is very useful for victims and families of victims. I have been confirmed that this information is already available in both languages. It was necessary to create a separate statute for the victims of terrorist acts. Our country had never faced that either. The statute is also there for the people who were victims abroad, think of Nice, Tunis and all other attacks. Clarification has now been established. There is a unique window. We have also tried to resolve the issues that were difficult, for example with insurance, by contacting them. At the request of the victim organisations, we have been waiting for the recommendations of the Committee of Inquiry into the attacks, but at the same time we also wanted to work quickly because there will also be a retrograde payout and the victims will have an interest in it. I realise that it is difficult for some people to give a judgment at this stage, since they do not yet know what will be included in the justice section and prefer to wait, but I would like to thank my fellow Members for their constructive cooperation so far.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-06-54-plenair-ip178x.u113	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-06-54-plenair-ip178x.u114	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2334/6) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2334/6) The title was amended by the Commission in draft law on the establishment of the status of national solidarity, the granting of a recovery pension and the reimbursement of medical care due to acts of terrorism." The title has been amended by the committee in draft law on the creation of the status of national solidarity, the granting of a compensation pension and the reimbursement of medical care following acts of terrorism". The draft law has 38 articles. The bill has 38 articles.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-06-54-plenair-ip178x.u115	• 47 – Catherine Fonck (2334/7)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-06-54-plenair-ip178x.u116	• 51 – André Frédéric cs (2334/7)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-06-54-plenair-ip178x.u117	****** The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments and articles that have been tabled and on the whole will take place later. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments and the reserved articles as well as on the whole will take place at a later date. ****** Decision of the article-by-article discussion:
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-06-54-plenair-ip178x.u118	Sustained: the vote on the amendments that have been adopted and Articles 2, 5, 7, 10, 18 and 20.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-06-54-plenair-ip178x.u119	Article adopted by article: Articles 1, 3, 4, 6, 8, 9, 11 to 17, 19 and 21 to 38.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-06-54-plenair-ip178x.u120	******
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-06-54-plenair-ip178x.u121	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-06-54-plenair-ip178x.u122	Mr President, I refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-06-54-plenair-ip178x.u123	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, while universal and European international instruments are essentially aimed at the suppression of terrorist acts, the Council of Europe Convention opened for signature on 16 May 2005 deals with one aspect, which is also extremely important: the prevention of terrorism. In short, I would like to return to the various articles, in any case the most important ones of this Convention. Article 3 of the Convention requires States parties to put in place a national policy of prevention with respect for human rights and the promotion of tolerance. The criminalization obligations contained in articles 5 to 7 and 9 of the Convention are quite specific. I quote them: the public provocation to commit a terrorist offence, the recruitment for terrorism, the training for terrorism, the complicity and organisation of the commission of an offence mentioned above, the contribution to the commission or attempt to commit such an offence, or also a series of preparatory acts for the commission of terrorist acts. Article 11 requires that the offences covered by the Convention be punishable by effective, proportionate and dissuasive penalties. Article 12 recalls, for its part, that the prosecution of such offences must respect human rights obligations, the principle of proportionality of means for the purposes pursued and exclude any form of arbitrary, discriminatory or racist treatment. The Convention is particularly important in its aspect of strengthening international cooperation and extradition: the parties must afford the widest possible assistance in any investigation, criminal procedure or extradition procedure. Article 22 also provides for the spontaneous transmission of information collected in the course of an investigation by one State to another if the former considers that it may be useful to the latter. In another article, the principle of "extradition or prosecution" is also laid down, based on the provisions of the International Convention for the Suppression of Terrorist Bombings with Explosives and the International Convention for the Suppression of the Financing of Terrorism. If a party refuses to extradite a person suspected of having committed any of the offences covered by the Convention, it is obliged to submit without delay. These, ladies and gentlemen, are the most important points of this Convention which I wanted to recall very quickly, since the action and decisions we have to take in this House and, in particular, in the study of the third part which we are dealing with in the Committee of Inquiry into Attacks also largely concern what could be done to prevent terrorism. In the face of the propaganda of terrorist groups, we must use all available means to counter their hate messages that encourage some individuals to take the step. And we must also reflect, ladies and gentlemen, on the possibility of building, disseminating and spreading counter-speechs that take into account the spirit of this Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention of Terrorism.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-06-54-plenair-ip178x.u124	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-06-54-plenair-ip178x.u125	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2435/1) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2435/1) The draft law has 4 articles. The bill has four articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-06-54-plenair-ip178x.u126	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-06-54-plenair-ip178x.u127	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteur, Mr Crusnière, referred to the written report. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-06-54-plenair-ip178x.u128	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2458/1) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2458/1) The draft law has 4 articles. The bill has four articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-06-54-plenair-ip178x.u129	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-06-54-plenair-ip178x.u130	I propose that a single discussion be devoted to these draft laws. I propose that you devote one discussion to these bills.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-06-54-plenair-ip178x.u131	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Mrs Fatma Pehlivan, rapporteur, referred to the written report. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-06-54-plenair-ip178x.u132	The texts adopted by the committee shall form the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) The texts adopted by the committee serve as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) We shall begin by discussing the articles of Bill No. 2459. (2459/1) We shall now proceed to the discussion of the articles of Bill No. 2459. (2459/1) The draft law has two articles. The bill has two articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-06-54-plenair-ip178x.u133	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. We shall begin by discussing the articles of Bill No. 2461. (2461/1) We shall now proceed to the discussion of the articles of Bill No. 2461. (2461/1) The draft law has two articles. The bill has two articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-06-54-plenair-ip178x.u134	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. We shall begin by discussing the articles of Bill No. 2462. (2462/1) We shall now proceed to the discussion of the articles of Bill No. 2462. (2462/1) The draft law has two articles. The bill has two articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-06-54-plenair-ip178x.u135	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. We shall begin by discussing the articles of Bill No. 2463. (2463/1) We shall now proceed to the discussion of the articles of Bill No. 2463. (2463/01) The draft law has two articles. The bill has two articles. No amendments were tabled. End. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-06-54-plenair-ip178x.u136	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-06-54-plenair-ip178x.u137	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteur, Mr Hellings, referred to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-06-54-plenair-ip178x.u138	Mr President, for my group, this multilateral agreement is a remarkable step forward since it is in line with the transparency of the activities of multinationals, in particular with regard to the taxable matter they can produce. With this agreement, the Belgian tax administration will be able to understand more quickly how multinational companies structure all their transactions, while ensuring the confidentiality of the information exchanged. Every year, the Belgian tax administration will receive information, in particular on the accounts of multinationals, but also – and this is very important – on the location of economic activities, which will enable it to understand where the economic activity and the wealth produced by the activity is located with a view to linking it to a given tax territory. As you know, this is one of the 15 actions of the BEPS plan set up by the OECD, which is now a roadmap for the European Union with implementation and transposition following a timetable, which is not said to be non-existent but could be improved and strengthened. This project is therefore in the right direction, which is why we will support it. However, it would probably have been necessary to deepen its review and understand whether the government has implemented the recommendation as a minimum or whether it has been ambitious. From our point of view, this project is a minimal basis, as we would like to say, which, moreover, the majority does not dispute. In other meetings, it is even a claim made by certain groups, I am thinking in particular of a special committee dealing with Panama Papers. As you know, my group believes that this type of project should be dealt with in the Finance Committee. We regret that such an international convention is not being dealt with in the Finance Committee or that at least the opinion of the Finance Committee is not being sought. Together with my colleagues in the Finance Committee, we could have indicated how much this concern for progress in the implementation of the BEPS is shared. However, we must be able to irrigate our enthusiasm for these issues in the Committee on Foreign Affairs. It is therefore a regret that I wanted to notify you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-06-54-plenair-ip178x.u139	Mr President, I apologize for the absence of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Foreign Affairs, Didier Reynders. I would like to raise two points. Firstly, as Mr Laaouej has said, and I thank him for that, the agreement to the multilateral agreement is an important step forward in the BEPS action plan. I would also like to point out, as the minister in committee did, that this does not exclude going further, in particular through bilateral agreements with a number of interlocutors or countries. Secondly, I would also like to point out that a representative of the Minister of Finance was present in committee and that he had the opportunity to mention other elements, including the translation of the BEPS plan through the programme law of 1 July 2016. Of course, Minister Reynders and I are listening to your remarks. I wanted to bring the two elements of nuance that were partly mentioned in committee, in support of the statements made by the Minister and the representative of the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-06-54-plenair-ip178x.u140	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? ) The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-06-54-plenair-ip178x.u141	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2482/1) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2482/1) The draft law has two articles. The bill has two articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-06-54-plenair-ip178x.u142	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-06-54-plenair-ip178x.u143	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Mrs Van Hoof refers to the written report. Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? ) The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-06-54-plenair-ip178x.u144	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2483/1) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2483/1) The draft law has two articles. The bill has two articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-06-54-plenair-ip178x.u145	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-06-54-plenair-ip178x.u146	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Mr Luykx referred to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-06-54-plenair-ip178x.u147	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind the House of a number of important points. This normalisation of relations between the European Union and Cuba comes in the wake of the rapprochement with Havana decided by US President Barack Obama, who had put an end, in July 2015, to 60 years of freezing between the two countries. He then made a historic visit to Cuba in March 2016. This Washington policy is currently being challenged by the new US President. Unfortunately, we note this, but it does not prevent us, as Europeans, from building a closer and more constructive partnership with Cuba because close historical, economic and cultural ties unite Europe and Cuba. We must defend them and mark, when necessary, our singularity. I recall that the Republic of Cuba was Spanish until the end of the 19th century. This agreement provides for a strengthened political dialogue to encourage democracy, human rights and fundamental freedoms. We must pay particular attention to this because the Cuban people need to see a real change in their daily lives, in their individual and social rights. There will be no easing of European demands in terms of democracy and human rights for trade to flourish. You know my commitment to the protection of LGBTQI rights, whether in Chechnya or here in Cuba. I therefore reiterate my call for them to be better protected in their rights and dignity. Finally, an economic and trade chapter is included in this agreement to facilitate trade, but there is no reference to a free trade treaty. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, the Reform Movement will vote in favour of this text and we will be vigilant that it will finally open Cuba and its inhabitants to more freedom and socio-economic development. It is a complex balance that needs to be worked out but which, in the end, will be able to make real progress in this country. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-06-54-plenair-ip178x.u148	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? ) The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-06-54-plenair-ip178x.u149	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2484/1) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2484/1) The draft law has two articles. The bill has two articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-06-54-plenair-ip178x.u150	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-06-54-plenair-ip178x.u151	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Mr Crusnière, rapporteur, referred to his written report. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-06-54-plenair-ip178x.u152	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2498/6) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2498/6) The title was changed by the Committee to "draft law providing compensation for the staff of the Federal Public Service for Foreign Affairs, Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation and similar persons who are victims of damage caused by exceptional risks abroad." The title has been amended by the committee in "Bill organizing compensation for staff members of the Federal Public Service Foreign Affairs, Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation and similar persons who are victims of damage caused by exceptional risks abroad". The draft law contains 5 articles. The bill has five articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-06-54-plenair-ip178x.u153	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-06-54-plenair-ip178x.u154	Mr President, you may have said it and I am sorry if this has escaped, but we have had the committee and the committee's oral report and two amendments have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-06-54-plenair-ip178x.u155	Yeah, no problem. Your colleagues, Messrs. De Croo and Bellot, aren't they here?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-06-54-plenair-ip178x.u156	In fact, they asked me, if you would, to replace them. Mr. De Croo is apologised.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-06-54-plenair-ip178x.u157	Mr. President, I have just come to your side. Truth has its rights. I asked you if Minister De Croo would be present. You said, "Yes, I don't care."
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-06-54-plenair-ip178x.u158	Yes, but I can only answer what I know. I was told that Minister De Croo was here.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-06-54-plenair-ip178x.u159	Mr President, do not find my words vindictive, but I owe the truth. I had the politeness of asking you and you answered me what you knew, that is, not the truth! I'm telling you, we're not going to have a conversation for half an hour. I'm not worried.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-06-54-plenair-ip178x.u160	I'm sorry. Minister De Croo was indeed excused for this plenary session and Mr Bellot was not. Mr. Bellot will be here as far as I know. Minister, do you know anything about this?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-06-54-plenair-ip178x.u161	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-06-54-plenair-ip178x.u162	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-06-54-plenair-ip178x.u163	Mr President, I will refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-06-54-plenair-ip178x.u164	Mr President, I said that we do not want to slow down the proceedings. I will speak to Minister Borsus instead of Mr. De Croo, while Mr. Borsus is calling Mr. Bellot. Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to re-explain the choice of my group to abstain on the project, which, behind very technical appearances - we will agree - raises fundamental questions of principle. If we do not have any problems with the implementation of the regulation, except perhaps the lack of safeguards in the law for identifying with private services, the last chapter, which has nothing to do with the regulation, is more problematic. The latter chapter allows the state to use private-sector-managed applications to identify citizens who wish to access the government's online services. Admittedly, the phenomenon of privatization of State missions is not an unprecedented manoeuvre for this government, which claims to do so. But here, a particularly sensitive area is at risk: the protection of personal data entrusted by citizens to the State. By agreeing to entrust this mission to the private sector, the government demonstrates that it is not at the forefront of one of the most important issues that emerged in the 21st century. In an ultra-connected society, only a strong state is truly able to protect the privacy of its citizens. To fulfill this mission, he must have mastery of these tools. The words of the N-VA in committee are not reassuring. My colleague Mr Dedecker is here. He wondered whether it was still useful to have the means of identification developed by our administration. We can then fear the worst for the future, especially since the project does not guarantee that the government must, in all circumstances, allow itself to connect to the services of the administration through a state-run application. When the Deputy Prime Minister tells us that private companies will only have access to the strict minimum of personal data to guarantee identification, we ask very sincerely only to believe it. But again, this guarantee is unfortunately not found in the law. In conclusion, I would say that, despite the progress made for European citizens, the government's project opens up risky breaches in the protection of the privacy of our citizens. You will therefore understand that we will not be able to support this project and that we will abstain.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-06-54-plenair-ip178x.u165	Mr President, in his presentation, Mr Alexander De Croo had the opportunity both to mention the two parts of this text, but also to mention the involvement of private partners. I would like to quote: "Private partners must also have the possibility, under strict supervision and guarantees, to design these tools for digital communications, particularly between citizens, businesses and public authorities. Private partners involved, who develop identification tools, etc., are subject to extremely strict accreditation requirements, follow-up on security, privacy, continuity of service, etc." As much as we can hear from Mr Devin's question of principle, we believe that the guarantees for the exercise of these tasks by private actors with strict respect for the security and protection of private data are combined in this text. It was in this sense that it was supported by the government and, in the wake, by the parliamentary majority in committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-06-54-plenair-ip178x.u166	Mr President, I hear the response of Minister Borsus. Instead of a blank page, and even if we hear the guarantees that are expressed, we would have preferred a formal text in order to decide on what will be signed and which will be the force of law.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-06-54-plenair-ip178x.u167	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-06-54-plenair-ip178x.u168	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2512/3) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2512/3) The draft law has 12 articles. The bill has 12 clauses. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-06-54-plenair-ip178x.u169	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-06-54-plenair-ip178x.u170	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Sabien Lahaye-Battheu.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-06-54-plenair-ip178x.u171	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteur, Mr Jef Van den Bergh, referred to his written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-06-54-plenair-ip178x.u172	Mr. Speaker, today the House is about to vote on a bill tabled by Ms.Sabien Lahaye-Battheu. This proposal amends the Law of 16 March 1968 on the Road Traffic Police, with regard to the revocation of the right to drive non-motorized vehicles. It is absurd to impose a suspension of examinations or different tests on anyone without a driving licence. Why impose the revocation of the right to drive a motor vehicle when the offence was committed with a vehicle that is not required to have a driving licence? Like my distinguished colleague, I am opposed to this and I think it is totally disproportionate. Moreover, public drunkenness is already sanctioned by local police regulations, which ensures that there is no total impunity for such behaviour. Mrs Lahaye-Battheu's proposal aims to soften the rigour of the law while taking into account objective elements. I welcome and congratulate her.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-06-54-plenair-ip178x.u173	Mr President, very quickly we support this proposal as amended. This new version seems to us more balanced and nuanced. Indeed, a person in a state of drunkenness represents a real danger to himself, first of all, as well as to others. It is therefore necessary to allow the judge to assess on a case-by-case basis with flexibility rather than automatically sanctioning.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-06-54-plenair-ip178x.u174	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, many things bring us closer to Mr Flahaux and Mrs Poncelet, even if we cannot vote all together. But again, we will prove that when a government or a parliamentarian tables a good text, going in the right direction, the Socialist Party defends it. Again, we will support a good text. So ask yourself why when we don't support it. We will therefore support your proposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-06-54-plenair-ip178x.u175	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you for the support for this legislative proposal, which basically means that cyclists with a glass of them will no longer be obliged to lose their driving licences. That is, after all, the problem today, that there is no margin for our judges to say whether or not they are appalled. No, they must be appalled. Well, that has to be replaced by a possibility. I believe that this is a good thing to bring back the logic of the legislation that requires a link between the offence on the one hand and the punishment on the other. If one commits a violation of the bicycle, then that really has no connection with the driving licence, if one already has one. Thanks again for the support.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-06-54-plenair-ip178x.u176	Mrs Lahaye-Battheu, I have actually only heard statements of support, so a response from the government is not expected at all. Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-06-54-plenair-ip178x.u177	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (440/4) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (440/4) The title was changed by the Committee to 'proposal for a law amending Article 38 of the Law of 16 March 1968 on the police on road transport as regards the expiry of the right to drive non-motorised vehicles'. The title has been amended by the Commission to "proposal for a law amending Article 38 of the Law of 16 March 1968 on the Road Traffic Police with regard to the revocation of the right to drive non-motorized vehicles". The bill has 2 articles. The bill has two articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-06-54-plenair-ip178x.u178	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-06-54-plenair-ip178x.u179	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteur, Mr Piedboeuf, referred to his written report. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-06-54-plenair-ip178x.u180	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2502/4) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2502/4) The draft law contains 36 articles and annexes. The bill has 36 articles, as well as annexes. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-06-54-plenair-ip178x.u181	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-06-54-plenair-ip178x.u182	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Siegfried Bracke
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-06-54-plenair-ip178x.u183	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteur, Mr Demon, referred to his written report. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? ) The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-06-54-plenair-ip178x.u184	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2531/1) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2531/1) The bill has 5 articles. The bill has 5 articles.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-06-54-plenair-ip178x.u185	****** The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendment that has been tabled, the article that has been adopted and on the whole will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendment and the reserved article as well as on the whole will take place at a later date. ****** Decision of the article-by-article discussion: Conclusion of the discussion of the articles:
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-06-54-plenair-ip178x.u186	Held: the vote on the amendment and Article 3. Article adopted by article: Articles 1, 2, 4 and 5.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-06-54-plenair-ip178x.u187	******
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-06-54-plenair-ip178x.u188	The rapporteur, Mr Franky Demon, referred to his written report. The special committee responsible for parliamentary supervision of the Standing Committee on the Supervision of the Police Services and the Standing Committee on the Supervision of the Intelligence and Security Services shall propose that the Chamber approve these amendments. The Special Committee on Parliamentary Accompanying the Standing Committee on Police Services and the Standing Committee on Intelligence and Security Services proposes that the House approve these amendments. If there is no objection, I propose that these amendments be considered as approved. If there is no comment, I suggest that you consider these amendments to be approved.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-06-54-plenair-ip178x.u189	In the context of the conflict of interest on the draft law on the harmonisation of periods of study to be taken into account for the calculation of the pension (No. 2378/1) the composition of the Parliamentary Delegation was announced at the plenary session of 1 June 2017. In the context of the conflict of interest relating to the draft law on the harmonization of the consideration of periods of study for the calculation of pension (No. 2378/1), the composition of the Chamber's delegation was announced during the plenary session of 1 June 2017. By e-mail of 4 July 2017, the MR Group reports the replacement of Ms Sybille de Coster-Bauchau by Mr David Clarinval. By email dated July 4, 2017, the MR group communicated the replacement of Ms.Sybille de Coster-Bauchau by Mr.David Clarinval.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-06-54-plenair-ip178x.u190	By letter dated 23 June 2017, Mr Michel Deraemaeker stated that he resigned as a member of the local police of the Supervisory Body on the police information. By letter of 23 June 2017, Mr. Michel Deraemaeker reported that he resigned as a member of the local police of the Police Information Review Body. In the plenary session of 24 April 2014, the Chamber decided that the number of experts should not exceed the number of members of the police services. At the plenary session on 24 April 2014, the Chamber decided that the number of experts could not exceed the number of members from the police services. The Chamber should therefore appoint a new Dutch-speaking member of the local police of the Supervisory Body to replace Mr Michel Deraemaeker. The Chamber must therefore proceed to the appointment of a new Dutch-speaking member of the local police of the Supervisory Body to replace Mr. Michel Deraemaeker. The plenary session of 24 April 2014 also decided to apply gender parity by category. Mr Michel Deraemaeker should therefore be replaced by a person of the same sex. The plenary session of 24 April 2014 also decided to apply gender parity by category. Mr. Michel Deraemaeker must therefore be replaced by a member of the same sex. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 5 July 2017, I propose that you publish a call to candidates in the Belgian Official Journal for the mandate of male Dutch speaking member of the local police of the Supervisory Body on police information. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 5 July 2017, I propose that you publish in the Belgian Monitor a call for candidates for the term of office of Dutch-speaking male member of the local police of the Police Information Review Body. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-06-54-plenair-ip178x.u191	The last distributed agenda contains a list of proposals for which consideration has been requested. You have taken note of the list of proposals for consideration in the agenda distributed to you. If there is no objection, I shall consider it adopted; in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, these proposals shall be sent to the committees responsible. If there are no comments on this subject, I will take it into account as a matter of fact and refer the proposals back to the relevant committees in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 5 July 2017, I also propose the legislative proposal (Mrs Stefaan Vercamer, Servais Verherstraeten and Vincent Van Peteghem) to strengthen the social protection of frontier workers, No. 2597/1, to be considered.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-06-54-plenair-ip178x.u192	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 5 July 2017, I also propose that you take into consideration the bill (MM. Stefaan Vercamer, Servais Verherstraeten and Vincent Van Peteghem) to strengthen the social protection of frontier workers, No 2597/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-06-54-plenair-ip178x.u193	Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-06-54-plenair-ip178x.u194	The Government requested urgent procedure under Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure when submitting the following draft laws: The government requested urgency pursuant to rule 51 of the Rules when introducing the following bills: 1. Draft Law amending the Law of 5 February 2007 on Maritime Security, the Law of 2 June 2012 on the Federal Investigation Authority for Maritime Accidents and the Organic Law of 27 December 1990 establishing the Budget Funds, No. 2511/1. 1. Draft law amending the Law of 5 February 2007 on maritime security, the Law of 2 June 2012 on the Federal Agency for the Investigation of Navigational Accidents and the Organic Law of 27 December 1990 establishing budgetary funds, No. 2511/1. I propose that we speak about this in the usual way, either by sitting and getting up. But in the meantime, it's a tradition that motivates the government.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-06-54-plenair-ip178x.u195	Mr President, on 27 April 2017, the European Commission issued a reasoned opinion against Belgium in which the absence of a permanent investigative body for maritime accidents was indicted. This bill, which was obtained after negotiations with Belgian shipowners and ports, provides effective funding for the FOSO to become operational as soon as possible. As a result, Belgium fulfils its European obligations and avoids infringement proceedings before the Court of Justice.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-06-54-plenair-ip178x.u196	I would suggest that we speak on this question. I propose that we take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-06-54-plenair-ip178x.u197	2. Draft law laying down various provisions on electronic communications, n° 2558/1. 2. Bill on various provisions on electronic communications, nr. 2558/1. I'll ask the government for a statement of reasons first.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-06-54-plenair-ip178x.u198	Mr President, this is also part of this bill, which concerns provisions that ensure the transposition of the famous European Directive 2014/61 on measures to reduce the cost of deploying very high-speed electronic communications networks. The transposition of the Directive was due to take place by 1 July 2016. There is therefore an urgent need, since the Commission is following this issue and we want to avoid legal action being taken against us.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-06-54-plenair-ip178x.u199	I would suggest that we speak on this question. I propose that we take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-06-54-plenair-ip178x.u200	3. Draft law transposing several directives on the mandatory automatic exchange of information in the field of taxation, No. 2563/1. 3. Draft law transposing several directives on automatic and compulsory exchange of information in the field of taxation, No. 2563/1. I'm asking for a motivation from the Minister of Defence.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-06-54-plenair-ip178x.u201	Mr President, the directive concerned, DAC3, should have already entered into force on 1 January 2017. The urgent request is justified by the fact that the objective of the Directive, namely the exchange of rules, must be fulfilled, as regards the first half of 2017, by 30 September of this year at the latest. If we want to comply with the deadlines imposed by the directive, the bill under consideration must be published in the Belgian Monitor by 20 September 2017 at the latest.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-06-54-plenair-ip178x.u202	I would suggest that we speak on this question. I propose that we take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-06-54-plenair-ip178x.u203	4. Draft law amending the Code of Registration, Mortgage and Registry Rights in order to reform the Registry Rights, No. 2569/1. 4. Draft law amending the Code of Registration, Mortgage and Registry Fees with a view to reforming registry fees, No. 2569/1. A motivation, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-06-54-plenair-ip178x.u204	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in judgment No. 13217 of 9 February 2017 the Constitutional Court annulled Articles 3 to 6 of the Law of 28 April 2015 on the basis of the finding that the value criterion is not relevant to achieve the stated main objective, namely to bring the role rights into line with the alleged effort and costs of the judiciary, of the legislator. In order to avoid the administrative and budgetary difficulties that would result from the destruction and to allow the legislator to adapt the legislation in accordance with the judgment, the Constitutional Court maintained, until 31 August 2017 at the latest, the effects of the destructive provisions on the claims brought before a court of law until that date.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-06-54-plenair-ip178x.u205	Mr President, I am a little surprised by this urgent question. That text was already discussed in the Finance Committee and was adopted at first reading. Now people are asking for urgency. Apparently, it is urgent to introduce an additional tax of EUR 20 million on litigation. Perhaps it would be better to facilitate access to justice in the event of urgency. We would support that with great enthusiasm. I note that this government is calling for the urgency of a new tax which was already discussed in the first session. It's an urgent fee. I believe that the deadlines are still sufficient to approve this at second reading before 21 July. I therefore consider these urgent questions to be absolutely inappropriate.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-06-54-plenair-ip178x.u206	I would suggest that we speak on this question. I propose that we take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-06-54-plenair-ip178x.u207	5. Draft law establishing an appeal procedure against a decision on the selection procedure for the limited categories of groundhandling services at Brussels National Airport, No. 2570/1. 5. Draft law establishing an appeal procedure against a decision on the selection procedure for the limited categories of groundhandling services at Brussels-National Airport, No 2570/1. Mr. Borsus has a motivation.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-06-54-plenair-ip178x.u208	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this is an extremely technical subject, but it is also a matter of bringing European provisions into line. The aim is the selection procedure set out in the Royal Decree of November 2010, which regulates access to the groundhandling market at Brussels-National airport and in respect of which we must provide for an appeal procedure before the commercial court, which sits in interim proceedings. If we do not foresee this remedy, we are in breach of European provisions. I therefore ask Parliament to accept the urgency of this text!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-06-54-plenair-ip178x.u209	I would suggest that we speak on this question. I propose that we take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-06-54-plenair-ip178x.u210	6. Draft law establishing an ongoing system of advances on the proceeds of the additional municipal tax on personal income tax, No. 2576/1. 6. Draft law on the introduction of a system of permanent advances on the proceeds of the municipal tax additional to the tax on natural persons, No. 2576/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-06-54-plenair-ip178x.u211	Mr President, this draft law is necessary and should be adopted before the summer recess in order to bring into force, as planned, the advance system for municipalities from September 2017. Since the system is based on the revenue of an assessment year and the advances are calculated accordingly, the entry into force is inextricably linked to the beginning of a new assessment year and should start in September. A postponement of the approval would imply that the new advance system for municipalities could not be launched until September 2018, i.e. with a year's delay. We understand that the municipalities and their representative associations in the three regions are very much in demand for the advance payment system. Of course, they want implementation as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-06-54-plenair-ip178x.u212	I would suggest that we speak on this question. I propose that we take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-06-54-plenair-ip178x.u213	This inquiry was developed in a public meeting of the Committee on the Interior, General Affairs and the Civil Service of 28 June 2017. This interview was held at the public meeting of the Commission for the Interior, General Affairs and Public Administration of 28 June 2017. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 210/1): - a motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr. Emir Kir; - a simple motion was tabled by Ms. Sarah Smeyers. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 210/1): - a motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mr Emir Kir; - a simple motion was tabled by Mrs Sarah Smeyers. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put this motion to the vote. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of voting / Start of the vote. Did everyone vote and check their vote? / Did everyone vote and check his voice? End of voting / End of vote. Result of the vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-06-54-plenair-ip178x.u214	Yes 75 Yes No. 61 No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 137 Total The simple motion was adopted. Therefore, the motion for recommendation is over. The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motion of recommendation lapses. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-06-54-plenair-ip178x.u215	Mr President, I wanted to justify my abstention as I did the other weeks because I was with Mrs Nawal Ben Hamou.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-06-54-plenair-ip178x.u216	Mr President, you may note that I also abstained since I had a request to pair up with my colleague Denis Ducrame. Like our colleague, Stephanie Thoron, a nice pair for our colleague who has just given birth, I obviously accepted her request.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-06-54-plenair-ip178x.u217	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 2) Yes 136 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 137 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (2480/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (2480/4) Reason for abstinence? [[No.]] Reason for abstention? [[No]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-06-54-plenair-ip178x.u218	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 3) Yes 130 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 5 Abstensions Total 135 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (2528/5) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (2528/5) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-06-54-plenair-ip178x.u219	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes 131 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 3 Abstensions Total 134 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (2489/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (2489/4) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? [[No]] (MM. Friart and Piedboeuf and Mrs Lahaye-Battheu voted in favour)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-06-54-plenair-ip178x.u220	Vote on Amendment No 47 by Catherine Fonck on Article 2. (2334/7) Vote on Amendment No 47 by Catherine Fonck to Article 2. (2334/7) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 5) Yes 59 Yes No. 75 No Abstentions 3 Abstensions Total 137 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 2 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 2 was adopted. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Vote on Amendment No 43 by Catherine Fonck to insert a chapter 3/1(n). (2334/7) Vote on Amendment No 43 by Catherine Fonck to insert a Chapter 3/1(n). (2334/7) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 6) Yes 53 Yes No. 75 No Abstentions 8 Abstensions Total 136 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-06-54-plenair-ip178x.u221	Vote on Amendment No 49 by Olivier Maingain cs to insert a chapter 3/1(n). (2334/7) Vote on Amendment No 49 by Olivier Maingain cs to insert a Chapter 3/1(n). (2334/7) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 7) Yes 54 Yes No. 75 No Abstentions 8 Abstensions Total 137 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Vote on Amendment No 44 by Catherine Fonck cs to insert an article 4/1(n). (2334/7) Vote on Amendment No 44 by Catherine Fonck cs to insert an Article 4/1(n). (2334/7) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 8) Yes 54 Yes No. 75 No Abstentions 8 Abstensions Total 137 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Vote on Amendment No 50 by Olivier Maingain cs to insert an article 4/1(n). (2334/7) Vote on Amendment No 50 by Olivier Maingain cs to insert an Article 4/1(n). (2334/7) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 9) Yes 53 Yes No. 75 No Abstentions 7 Abstensions Total 135 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? [[No]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-06-54-plenair-ip178x.u222	Mr. President, I was wrong. I had to abstain.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-06-54-plenair-ip178x.u223	Of which act.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-06-54-plenair-ip178x.u224	Vote on Amendment No 48 by Olivier Maingain cs on Article 5. (2334/7) Vote on Amendment No 48 by Olivier Maingain cs to Article 5. (2334/7) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 10) Yes 44 Yes No. 88 No Abstentions 5 Abstensions Total 137 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Vote on Amendment No 52 by Daniel Senesael cs on Article 5. (2334/7) Vote on Amendment No 52 by Daniel Senesael cs to Article 5. (2334/7) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 11) Yes [[45]] Yes No. 86 No Abstentions 5 Abstensions Total 136 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 5 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 5 was adopted. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Vote on Amendment No 53 by Daniel Senesael cs on Article 7. (2334/7) Vote on Amendment No 53 by Daniel Senesael cs to Article 7. (2334/7) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 12) Yes 36 Yes No. 88 No Abstentions 13 Abstensions Total 137 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 7 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 7 was adopted. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Vote on Amendment No 42 by Catherine Fonck on article 10. (2334/7) Vote on Amendment No 42 by Catherine Fonck to Article 10. (2334/7) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 13) Yes 54 Yes No. 75 No Abstentions 5 Abstensions Total 134 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-06-54-plenair-ip178x.u225	Stemming over amendment nr. 51 van André Frédéric cs op artikel 10. (2334/7) Vote on Amendment No 51 by André Frédéric cs to Article 10. (2334/7) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes 57 Yes No. 75 No Abstentions 5 Abstensions Total 137 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 10 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 10 was adopted. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Vote on Amendment No 45 by Catherine Fonck cs to insert an article 10/1(n). (2334/7) Vote on Amendment No 45 by Catherine Fonck cs to insert an Article 10/1(n). (2334/7) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 15) Yes 52 Yes No. 75 No Abstentions 8 Abstensions Total 135 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-06-54-plenair-ip178x.u226	Vote on Amendment No 55 by André Frédéric cs to insert an article 16/1(n). (2334/7) Vote on Amendment No. 55 by André Frédéric cs to insert an Article 16/1(n). (2334/7) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 16) Yes 57 Yes No. 75 No Abstentions 4 Abstensions Total 136 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Vote on Amendment No 46 by Catherine Fonck on article 18. (2334/7) Vote on Amendment No 46 by Catherine Fonck to Article 18. (2334/7) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 17) Yes 44 Yes No. 75 No Abstentions 18 Abstensions Total 137 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 18 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 18 was adopted. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Stemming over amendment nr. 54 van André Frédéric cs op artikel 20. (2334/7) Vote on Amendment No 54 by André Frédéric cs to Article 20. (2334/7) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 18) Yes 44 Yes No. 88 No Abstentions 5 Abstensions Total 137 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 20 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 20 was adopted. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-06-54-plenair-ip178x.u227	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-06-54-plenair-ip178x.u228	Mr President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, my colleague, André Frédéric, has given you a detailed account of our group's position on this project. In my turn, I would like to highlight the constructive work that was carried out by the various cabinets, constructive work, including with the opposition groups, in trying to improve the text that was presented to us several weeks ago. Constructive work in which we participated actively although we were not convinced of the government's proposed approach, even if we understood the reasons why he wanted to vote on this text so quickly. Despite the progress made, we remain convinced that this text will not allow sufficient, objective and harmonised compensation for disability. As we have already said and the victims continue to denounce it, this text risks creating significant financial discrimination between a victim covered by insurance and a victim covered by the proposed system. We continue to believe that reimbursement of psychological care should be considered differently than it is today, i.e. on a path of care principle. We continue to believe that this was not the momentum to be engaged, that this was not the preferred option. Like the Commission of Inquiry Attentats, like many victims, we would have liked a compensation fund to be set up that would allow for a comprehensive and rapid compensation of victims, a fund which seems to be far from guaranteed today. While we have been able to obtain more assurance from the Minister of Justice regarding the principle of subrogation or the establishment of the single window, the idea of the compensation fund seems far from being acquired at this stage. We know that the steps and procedures to be put in place can be complex, but I sincerely believe that the government should have worked together to provide victims with a comprehensive response. By our vote today, we are sounding an alarm bell. We call on the government to continue to work on all the recommendations made by the commission of inquiry, taking care, at each stage, to listen to the victims, particularly through the inter-federal task force. We'll pay attention to it. This text, for us, is primarily symbolic and does not, and will not, meet the needs of the victims of terrorist acts. Moreover, many of the companies on 22 March 2016 will not be affected by this project in terms of compensation since the system is wasteful and most of them are covered by airport or STIB insurance. We cannot, therefore, today support this text on which we have worked, certainly, and despite the progress made, because it is far from responding to all the recommendations of the Committee of Inquiry, which, it should be recalled, have been unanimously voted on. Thank you for your indulgence, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-06-54-plenair-ip178x.u229	Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 19) Yes 89 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 48 Abstensions Total 137 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (2334/8) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (2334/8) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-06-54-plenair-ip178x.u230	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 20) Yes 134 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 135 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (2435/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (2435/4) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? [[No]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-06-54-plenair-ip178x.u231	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 21) Yes 131 Yes No. 2............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 134 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (2458/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (2458/4) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-06-54-plenair-ip178x.u232	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 22) Yes 133 Yes No. 2............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 136 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (2459/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (2459/4) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? [[No]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-06-54-plenair-ip178x.u233	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 23) Yes 133 Yes No. 2............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 136 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (2461/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (2461/4) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-06-54-plenair-ip178x.u234	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 24) Yes 133 Yes No. 2............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 136 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (2462/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (2462/4) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-06-54-plenair-ip178x.u235	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 25) Yes 134 Yes No. 2............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 137 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (2463/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (2463/4) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-06-54-plenair-ip178x.u236	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 26) Yes 137 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 137 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (2482/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (2482/4)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-06-54-plenair-ip178x.u237	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 27) Yes 133 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 3 Abstensions Total 136 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (2483/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (2483/4) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-06-54-plenair-ip178x.u238	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 28) Yes 134 Yes No. 3...................................................................................................................... 3...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 137 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (2484/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (2484/4)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-06-54-plenair-ip178x.u239	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-06-54-plenair-ip178x.u240	Mr President, this is an important text, which was long awaited, particularly by the officials of the SPF. That is why my group will vote mostly for this text. However, if we believe that it is the Belgian State's responsibility to protect the persons it sends abroad to represent them, in the most appropriate way possible against certain categories of risk, we believe that this protection should be addressed to all those concerned. However, as my colleague Stéphane Crusnière said in committee, this project unfortunately excludes locally recruited staff and unpaid trainees. Solidarity with the victims of terrorist acts cannot suffer such differences in treatment. On the other hand, the definition of what is known as "risk positions" also limits the scope of this bill, which, in the current context, is obviously very problematic. Who can assure today that one of our officials is safer in London than in Kinshasa? Symbolically, therefore, I will abstain for the reasons I have just mentioned and which deserve at least further reflection in order to find more just solutions, taking into account the new realities. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-06-54-plenair-ip178x.u241	Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 29) Yes 136 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 137 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (2498/7) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (2498/7) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-06-54-plenair-ip178x.u242	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 30) Yes [[115]] Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 22 Abstensions Total 137 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (2512/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (2512/4) Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-06-54-plenair-ip178x.u243	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes 136 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 137 Total Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft law. (440/5) Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a bill for Royal Assent. (440/5) Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-06-54-plenair-ip178x.u244	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 32) Yes 135 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 2 Abstensions Total 137 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (2502/5) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (2502/5) Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-06-54-plenair-ip178x.u245	Vote on Amendment No 2 by Meryame Kitir on article 3. (2531/5) Vote on Amendment No 2 by Meryame Kitir to Article 3. (2531/5) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 33) Yes [[47]] Yes No. 75 No Abstentions 10 Abstensions Total 132 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 3 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 3 was adopted. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]] Mr Devin, Mr Geerts and Mrs Detiège voted in favour.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-06-54-plenair-ip178x.u246	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 34) Yes 105 Yes No. 2............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 29 Abstensions Total 136 Total Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft. (2531/6) Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a draft for Royal Assent. (2531/6) Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-06-54-plenair-ip178x.u247	We must proceed with the adoption of the agenda for Thursday 13 July 2017. We must proceed to the approval of the agenda of the sitting on Thursday, 13 July 2017. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] The agenda has been adopted. No observation? [[No]] The agenda was approved. I wish you a pleasant continuation. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Thursday 13 July 2017 at 2.15 p.m. The meeting is adjourned. Next sitting on Thursday, 13 July 2017, at 2.15 p.m.
