ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-17-54-commissie-ic750x.u1	Madam Chair, Minister, my inquiry was initially directed to the Prime Minister, who sent him away from you. I do not repeat all the arguments that I have already put forward, but if I continue my inquiry, it is with the aim of being able to table a motion. To save you some time, minister, I don't read the fullness of my inquiry. For those who will read it, I refer to all the arguments that I have just put forward, which are contained in the report on the consideration in committee of today's bill to amend the Act respecting the practice of the health care professions coordinated on May 10, 2015. Minister, I propose that the debate not be reopened and that I table my motion directly. Madam President, is it possible to do so? I am not going to ask the minister to reread the same arguments. I therefore raise a motion to ask the government to take advantage of the period following the vote on the COCOF's conflict of interest motion to review the INAMI number file as a whole. Firstly, we propose quotas for European doctors and dentists. Discrimination against Belgians is unacceptable. If the government has arguments to justify the infringement of the free choice of profession in Belgium, then it has arguments to justify an infringement of free movement. Secondly, we propose to maintain the role of the Planning Commission as the competent body for the objective determination of overall quotas and quotas by the Community. Finally, we call for a smoothing that does not affect the health needs of each Community. On the other hand, Madam Minister, could you tell us both the number of doctors and dentists who have graduated from a foreign university and their distribution in the various Communities? Madam Chair, I propose that the minister give me these figures in writing because it is simply a reading exercise.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-17-54-commissie-ic750x.u2	We will provide you with the figures through the secretariat.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-17-54-commissie-ic750x.u3	In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. A motion for recommendation was tabled by Ms. Catherine Fonck and reads as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the inquiry of Ms. Catherine Fonck and the response of the Minister of Social Affairs and Public Health, asks the government - to take advantage of the period following the vote on the COCOF conflict of interest motion to review the overall INAMI number file; - quota European doctors/dentists. Discrimination against Belgians is unacceptable. If the government has arguments to justify the infringement of the free choice of profession in Belgium, then it has arguments to justify an infringement of free movement; - to maintain the role of the Planning Commission as the competent body for the objective determination of overall quotas and quotas by the Community; - to provide for a smoothing which does not affect the health needs of each Community." A motion of recommendation was tabled by Mrs Catherine Fonck and reads as follows: "The Chamber, heard the interplay of Mrs Catherine Fonck and the reply of the Minister for Social Affairs and Health, calls on the Government - use the period following the adoption of the motion of censure of the French Community Commission to review fully the file of the RIZIV numbers; - quota the number of European doctors/dentists. The discrimination against the Belgians is unacceptable. If the government can put forward arguments for restricting freedom of movement in Belgium, it can also do so for restricting freedom of movement; - maintain the role of the Planning Committee as the competent body for the objective determination of global quotas and quotas per Community; - apply the offer in such a way that the health needs of each Community can be met." A simple motion was tabled by Mrs An Capoen, Mrs Ine Somers, Mrs Els Van Hoof and Mrs Valerie Van Peel and Mr MM. Dirk Janssens, Damien Thiéry et Jan Vercammen. A simple motion was tabled by Mrs An Capoen, Mrs Ine Somers, Mr Els Van Hoof and Mr Valerie Van Peel and Mr Dirk Janssens, Mr Damien Thiéry and Mr Jan Vercammen. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed. The motions will be voted on later. The meeting's over.
