ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic732x.u1	Minister, in the plenary session of 9 March 2017, you announced that the National Pension Committee would start the debate on the modernisation of the family dimension on Monday 13 March. At the end of this debate, the government would define the measures to be taken in the context of the modernisation of the family dimension. There were also hearings with Mrs Cantillon and Mrs Masset. Can you give an overview of the concrete planning and the further timing for further debate on the family dimension and pensions? How will you inform Parliament about the progress made on this important dossier? Will the plans and proposals submitted to the members of the National Pension Committee also be explained to Members of the Social Affairs Committee?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic732x.u2	Mr President, I have tabled a similar question, particularly inspired by the government agreement, which states that we also want to take into account the changed social trends in our pension system. An ambitious agenda had been put forward with an adjustment of the family rate, the pension split, the equity of survivors' pensions, the equalisation of marriage and the legal cohabitation, all of which have different aspects to do with the family dimension. We consider the pension split to be very important and we also want to evaluate how survival pensions are helping people today. We want this to be dealt with effectively. That is why I would like to ask you about the state of play of these discussions in the National Pension Committee. Is this already being discussed or, if not, is there a timetable for this? We have been briefed on the family dimension by Mrs Bea Cantillon and Mrs Masset, among others. From the Knowledge Centre came a further scientific basis. Is further research being carried out on this subject and what will be the content of it? It is, of course, about the contours of the contract, because the content of the contract will only be completed afterwards. Mr President, I would like to ask you, in particular, what specific initiatives we can expect from you in this respect.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic732x.u3	The National Pension Committee and the Knowledge Centre will indeed be closely involved in the reform aimed at modernising the family dimension of our pension system, in accordance with the provisions of the government agreement. In order to start the debate on the reforms to be undertaken, the Academic Council presented to the members of the National Pension Committee on 13 March the conclusions of the report of the Committee on Pension Reform 2020-2040 on the demand for the modernisation of the family dimension. The debate on the modernisation of the family dimension is linked to the debate on pension issues. That is why the social partners were invited to express their views on the follow-up to the debate in the context of discussions on pension issues.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic732x.u4	Mr President, I see that you, like me, are surprised at the Minister's brief reply. The pension with points is nowadays the magic word and the answer to all the questions that are asked. Minister, I would like to, but the family dimension can be discussed without an agreement, a proposal or anything about the pension with points. Mrs Becq has listed a whole series of problems. We do not have to wait for retirement to start discussing the new family dimension and the new family forms, as well as the problems of single-parent families, especially women with children who are left behind and then punished in their pensions. Retirement with points is one thing. The pension with points is, by the way, a means and not an end in itself. It's a means of calculating pensions. I would therefore suggest that we should be able to enter into the debate here in committee, perhaps starting with the outcome of the report to which you refer, which was apparently already distributed on 13 March 2017. I therefore propose that it be distributed to the members of the committee so that we can discuss the matter further.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic732x.u5	Mr President, Minister, I also looked up when you had finished your reply, wondering if it had been done. After all, I have to admit that I expected a little more of your answer. I know that the government agreement states that this is related to the pension and that we must wait for it. However, it is not necessary to wait with everything for the pension system with points. In that case, we should have done so with many cases where decisions have already been taken. I therefore call for steps to be taken where possible. The position of women in a number of situations must certainly be taken into account. You know that I am a great advocate of a pension split, with guarantees at a sufficient minimum. It is often about people with not too high incomes. I have another reason for this, because there are occasional discussions about whether this should be discussed in family and matrimonial property law, or in pensions. There is a consensus from the Justice Department that this goes to pensions. If we put supplementary pensions and the pension split under the heading of pensions, that is all the more reason to insist on more thorough debates and debate on them.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic732x.u6	Mr President, I see that this question dates back to 31 May. I was surprised to see them on the agenda. A lot of time has passed. Sometimes a question is put in this House, which, to put it mildly, remains for almost six months. Minister, this question was raised by officials of the operational framework of the federal police, for whom a preferential pension scheme was governed by the law of 30 March 2001. You know history. The Constitutional Court has annulled the legal provision that maintained this preferential pension scheme. Hence the great concern at the time. The coalition agreement provided that the judgment would be enforced, thus eliminating the difference in treatment between the integrated police pension scheme and that of the general scheme, which was not objectively justifiable. In its implementation, the Law of 21 May 2015 provides that the preferential scheme shall be maintained for the staff of the federal police who could have applied for their pension before 10 July 2014. Afterwards, the Royal Decree of 9 November 2015 established an end-of-life scheme, allowing the agents for whom that preferential system was in force to enter into non-activity four years before the actual age of early retirement. The NAVAP (non-activity prior to the pension) can address the age of 58 at the earliest. This age increases in 2018 to 59 and so on. Against this background, the demand is linked to the state of play in the case of the heavy professions in the National Pension Committee. Is there a consensus on the early retirement age? This is a question that dates back to May, but I still want to ask them. In what way will there be further work? Will it be ensured that the pension system can be seamlessly aligned with the end date of the early non-activity pension on 31 December 2019? In what way can a scheme be provided for if the NAVAP scheme expires? Is there a connection?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic732x.u7	As far as your questions on the file on the heavy-duty professions are concerned, I would refer you to the answer I will make to your oral question No. 20413. I would like to repeat myself every time, but the file is evolving at the level of the National Pension Committee. It is expected that there will be substantial developments in October. Mr Windey, the Chairman of the National Committee, has just tabled a synthesis report on each other's positions in the private sector. The Public Sector Commission of the National Pensions Committee is currently discussing measures of penitibility in the public sector. We're really coming to the end of the discussions. As far as your question on the police end-of-life system is concerned, I invite you to question the relevant minister, the Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic732x.u8	Minister, I was also a little surprised that this question came up here. I was hoping to hear about the current state of play for the heavy professions. You replied to that.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic732x.u9	Minister, I do not think that you can refer to the pension with points or refer me to another minister, so I really hope that I will get an answer. It is also an older question, she dates from June. On 22 May, the European Commission gave its assessment of Member States' budgetary performance. Commissioner Moscovici demanded that additional measures be taken this year, amounting to 0.3 % of GDP, or about 1.2 billion euros. So much for history. We all know that. In the written reply to the European Commission, the government refers to the continuation of the structural reform agenda. Attention will be drawn, inter alia, to the planned changes to the pension system, such as the extension of the second pension pillar. Can you explain more about what was actually communicated to the European Commission? What is the intention of extending the second pillar of pensions? Is this simply an extension to the other professional status, not to mention the civil servants? After all, you know that appointed officials do not have a second pillar until now. Do you intend to continue the individualisation of the second pillar despite the justified criticism of the Academic Board for Pension Policy? Why do you see the extension of the second pension pillar as a structural reform? That is a bit weird, because this would be a de facto positive measure for the budget. What does that mean? If it is favourable to the budget, who is it less favourable to? Finally, what amount will this have a positive impact on the budget?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic732x.u10	Mrs Temmerman, I assume that the letter to which you refer is the letter of 9 May 2017, addressed to the European Commission's Finance DG. Following your question, I took note of this letter to note that, as far as the second pillar is concerned, this letter merely lists a few measures which I am considering and which I have presented to you several times in detail in Parliament. This concerns in particular the draft law on supplementary pensions for self-employed physical persons, the development of the second pillar for federal contractuals and all public sector contractuals and the possibility for employees to voluntarily build up a supplementary pension. I still intend to create the possibility for the employees to voluntarily build up a supplementary pension. A working group with members of my cabinet and members of the Academic Council was set up to consider the contours and limits of the introduction of this measure. I do not believe that the measures aimed at developing the second pillar are measures that allow for budgetary savings. Moreover, the reading of the letter to which you refer does not show that the measures relating to the second pillar are proposed as measures aimed at achieving budgetary savings. However, I believe that the development of the second pillar can be seen as an important structural measure in the context of the pension reform that I am currently undertaking. As I have already pointed out, the second pillar is indeed a supplement to the statutory pension, which is necessary to allow citizens, when they are retired, to have an income that is more in line with the income they enjoy as active persons.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic732x.u11	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. The good news is that you do not regard the reform under the second pillar as a budgetary measure. Contrary to what you are saying, however, I must make it quite clear that the letter to the European Commission, which clearly calls for savings, sets out the reform of the second pillar as one of the examples of structural measures to further balance the budget. That is what it says, Minister, and I cannot help it. You say, however, that it is not a budgetary measure for you. We'll take note of that. In that case, you have deceived the European Commission a little bit. Much worse news, of course, is that you want to continue individualising the second pillar. You say you will consult the Academic Council on this. However, the Academic Council was very clear about this. They considered this to be a very negative measure, because they are moving away from collectivisation and solidarity. If one goes to an individual second pillar, that happens alongside the other. For example, the diploma, the remuneration for the years of study, is also individual. If that is also the case for the second pillar, then that is yet another step towards the individualisation of pensions, Mr Minister, unlike our system of solidarity. So that's very bad news. I am very interested in what the Academic Council will say about this. I hope, at least, that the Academic Council will give you better thought in this regard.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic732x.u12	Mr President, Minister, this question concerns the same letter sent to the European Commission and to Commissioner Moscovici. This letter highlighted not only the second pillar but also the structural reform agenda and the plans for changing the pension system, such as the introduction of a partial pension. Can you explain more about what was communicated about the introduction of this partial pension? What exactly is a partial pension? How are the years in which a part-time pension was chosen, ultimately included in the actual pension? For what amount will this have a positive impact on the budget? This letter was addressed to the European Commission and we suspect that there is a budgetary agenda behind it. By what time do you intend to introduce the part-time pension? In an additional opinion, the Academic Pension Policy Board expressed its opposition to the introduction of a part-time pension without a point system. Does the government intend to disregard that advice? Or will you tell me here that the part-time pension will be introduced when the credit system is in place?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic732x.u13	Mr President, Minister, I would like to refer to the government agreement, which stipulated that a partial retirement pension would be examined. A legal basis for this has been in place for years, but it has never been operationalized, perhaps because it caused the necessary problems and was not immediately clear how this should be done. You stated earlier that the social dialogue on this issue will continue in the National Pension Committee and that you will take a legislative initiative. However, it remains unclear to us who the target group for this part-time pension is. Older workers already know the system of unemployment with single payment and there is also a time-credit end-of-life, for which the age has risen from 55 to 60 years. In fact, we would have preferred this to be a little more gradual than the brusque way in which it has happened now. We also wonder whether this measure was really necessary. The government staff has several engagements prior to the pension with a corresponding waiting fee, and the system of career break-up careers. I would therefore like to ask you very explicitly which group of older workers, self-employed workers and civil servants is covered by this part-time pension. How do you see the relationship between end-of-life schemes such as runways and part-time pensions? I am convinced that in many situations people will not be inclined to take up part-time pensions. What is the state of play in the pension administration's reflection on this? When are we gonna get results? When will you present this to Parliament? How do you see the relationship with the point system?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic732x.u14	Minister, the plan to introduce a part-time pension was one of the issues for which you set up the National Pension Committee. In the autumn meetings were planned by the Committee on this theme. Apparently, there is a great deal of uncertainty among the partners about how these discussions are handled. However, in the decisions taken by the government this month, it was announced that the part-time pension would be guaranteed and would also generate substantial savings. The runways and the time loan would be abolished. I come to my questions, Minister, and I hope that you will not simply refer to the retirement with points, otherwise we will have a lot of trouble. Firstly, can you confirm that this decision has already been taken without an in-depth social consultation? What is the agreed minimum age? Secondly, how much should savings be made? Thirdly, how will the government ensure that the measure is not abused by employers to allow older workers to discharge early and that, in other words, it will always remain a voluntary choice of the employee?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic732x.u15	During the July thematic Council of Ministers, the government reaffirmed its desire to introduce a part-time pension. This should allow workers to take up part of their pension while continuing to work and building up additional pension rights. The objective of the part-time pension is to give workers a new opportunity to ensure the transition between full-time work and permanent exit from the labour market. That possibility will be budgetaryly neutral. As I announced in my general policy paper, the National Pension Committee was asked to examine the introduction of a part-time pension system accessible from the age of early retirement. The President of the Academic Council was heard on 13 March to present the additional report on part-time pensions prepared by the Pension Reform Committee and to answer questions from members of the National Pension Committee. Part-time pension is currently being examined by the National Pension Committee in the context of the pension with points. The compatibility of the part-time pension with the instruments already in place for setting up the career end, in particular the end-of-life credit, has been asked one of the questions to the members of the National Pension Committee. It is too early to communicate about the modalities of that new instrument. The modalities will be determined at the end of the National Pension Committee's discussions on the pension with points. Draft regulatory texts will then be drawn up and submitted to the Government for approval. They will then be submitted to Parliament, within the time limit allowing entry into force on 1 January 2019. The entry into force of the part-time pension will thus take place prior to the introduction of the pension with points planned for 2025. However, it should be ensured that the part-time pension is compatible with the future pension with points.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic732x.u16	Thank you for your answer, Minister. Of course, we have not received any answers to many questions. I understand that because a number of things are still being prepared. It is very strange that this is already the second proposal on which you say it is not a saving measure, while the European Commission was clearly communicated that it is a structural saving measure. On this proposal for a partial pension, too, you tell the European Commission that it is part of the reforms. You are now saying that it will be budget neutral. This is good news in itself, but it is not credible, Minister. If you really meant to give people a soft landing to the pension, you would not have reformed the entire runway system in such a way that it is no longer attractive. You now want to replace the part-time pension for this because it is more economically advantageous, which you always strive for. It would benefit the budget. We will look very closely at this. I hope that when this progress is made, we will be able to discuss matters in depth, because this will cause a lot of problems for a lot of people.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic732x.u17	Mr Minister, runways were introduced at the time to allow people to work longer hours. Today we ask people to work longer. We are also convinced that more people should stay at work longer. That is also the solution that the Planning Bureau has always put forward to keep our pensions affordable and to keep them at a reasonable financial level for the people themselves. The runways were, in our opinion, a solution for that. The deadline for these runways was now shifted from 55 to 60 years. However, we are counting on them to remain as they are today, because this is the only way for many people to stay on the job. A transformation from one system to another is impossible for us. The government agreement states that a study of this part-time pension will be carried out. I think it is important to look closely at the consequences for this part-time pension in some way. I'm just thinking of something very technical. The supplementary pension must be taken up today at the time of retirement. If you retire part-time, you must therefore immediately take up the supplementary pension. I think it is important to know what is being done when such a measure is being taken. You say that you will see how that can be integrated into the point system. It is important that there is certainty and clarity about this. If I hear you say this about this measure, I think there may be other measures that we can try to implement and work out today, and which we will postpone until the points system arrives. Perhaps this should be done with this measure in order to ensure that it can be done in a coherent and clear way.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic732x.u18	You didn't really convince me, minister. You say you want to set career ends to allow people to work longer and longer. You lengthen career ends but at the same time deconstruct all the possibilities of credit-time. It's a little contradictory. You'll tell me that part-time pension exists. But it is clear that the aim is budgetary, that it costs less. The philosophy of this government is that people work longer, at their own risk and taking on their own responsibilities. Your colleague Maggie from Block is hunting down workers who are in long-term illness. Your government closes all doors by pushing people, who are exhausted, to work longer and longer. It's a bad way. CD&V says it's a study on part-time pension. The Minister has made it clear that it is not just a study but that the government wants to go for it. I would like to say to the CD&V that it is clear that the right wing in the government is in full favour of the antisocial measures. I would draw conclusions from that and put a social mobilisation on the table, because they will not change their position.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic732x.u19	Mr President, Minister, there is a lot of discussion going on about the heavy professions, of course an important dossier in the context of longer working. The government had worked out a nice planning and a nice methodology. Together with the social partners, the precise criteria for defining the heavy-duty professions would first be discussed and defined. In a second phase, the criteria would be defined and what are or are not heavy professions would be determined. In a final phase, the envelope should be allocated to the defined heavy-duty professions. That is a good methodology, but we now see that the first discussion on the criteria between the social partners in the private sector has stalled. You said that you intended to enter into force before 1 January 2018, so that the effects would be felt by 1 January 2019. You have always said that you would take matters into your own hands if the social partners do not come out. Hence my questions, Minister. Are you planning initiatives yourself, now that the discussions with the social partners have stalled? If so, are you still assuming the same timing or have you passed deadlines that cannot be overtaken? How do you really see the next steps? Will you decide everything for yourself, or will you return a number of things to the social partners? I know that this discussion is linked to the discussion on preferential tantiemes. Does this also have an impact on this discussion?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic732x.u20	Mr President, Minister, this question on penitibility was tabled in July, at the time of the meeting of the social partners in the CNP office. I wanted to know what was going on with this important issue, in which it is essential to be able to move forward so that the effect of longer careers can be nuanced. Minister, we are concerned about the closed envelope and also because we feel that the agreement will not arrive in the timing you want. You said that if there was no agreement, you were going to take over, with a budgetary logic, particularly with the effect on the tantheme. Where do we stand at the level of the discussions? Have constructive discussions been resumed? Do you favor them? Are you moving towards a differentiated reflection between public services and the private sector? Are you going to give more time for consultation? If you take your hand back to "privilege a balance", what is your vision of this "balance"?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic732x.u21	Mr President, Minister, my questions are in line with the questions put by the other speakers. I will repeat the more specific questions, as we had formulated them. Four criteria had been put forward in the consultation, which were not agreed, namely the aggravating working conditions, an aggravating work organisation, working with safety risks and the psychosocial burden. If you state that the government may have to accept this, our curiosity is, of course, awakened. In what way do you see the implementation of the criteria yourself or do you see it in a different way? In what way do you consult the Land Ministers in the search for a solution? In the education sector, among other things, there is great concern about the subject and there is a demand for an objectification of the criteria. Can that concern be taken into account? If the government states that it will accept this, we will ask the additional question as to how you will keep the dialogue with the social partners open. After all, even if they do not reach a consensus, it remains important to keep the dialogue open. Even if proposals are made or alternatives are envisaged, it remains important for the government to keep the dialogue open because it will always have to have or create a basis for these reforms. What timing do you foresee? Secondly, I understand that you are talking about 1 January 2019. This means that it is still a scheme before the pension is or is introduced. How do you see the conversion of the heavy-duty professions? Will you work with a coefficient? Will you respond to the length of your career? Will you only be aware of the pension? How do you see this transformation? Finally, I would like to ask a question that I had planned to ask. Are the preferential tantiemes linked to this? I think that is the case, of course. Will you then meet the deadline of 1 January 2019? Should that not be the case, will others remain as it is?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic732x.u22	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, you know the importance of the heavy trades issue. Many of the anti-social measures that you have passed since 2014 have always found as counterweight a series of exceptions that need to be discussed in the context of this issue of painful occupations. There is no point in telling you that I meet hundreds of workers every day waiting for the Committee's decision. Thousands of workers say that it is impossible for a Liberal minister to get them to work until they are 67 years old. We are therefore following closely the work of this Committee. Just before the holidays, the employer made it clear that there was only one criterion for him: night work. It does not wish to take into account the four criteria adopted: working conditions for physical reasons, work organisation, increased risks and emotional or mental pressure. Minister, on which side does your heart swing? On the employers' side, who wants to reduce the issue to night work, or on the side of those who want to maintain these four criteria? When are you going to reach a deal? If there is no agreement, which side will you choose? You do have the right to decide, but it would be good to decide with objective criteria, which affect as many workers as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic732x.u23	Mr Hedebouw, I will choose the side of the general interest!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic732x.u24	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic732x.u25	As part of the implementation of the government agreement which provides for the establishment of specific pension provisions for heavy trades, I recall that the members of the National Pension Committee approved on 12 September 2016 a report defining four categories of criteria. On 26 November 2016, the Government agreed on the allocation of the budgetary envelope intended to finance the taking into account the gravity of the pension rights professions. The amount of this budget envelope was committed at 40 million in 2019 and 70 million in 2020. At the beginning of 2017, the social partners of the private sector expressed their will to continue discussions on the definition and implementation of the criteria of the gravity of the professions and pension regulation. Unfortunately, no agreement could be reached between them. A report setting out their respective views is currently being considered by the Panel and federal government officials have focused on the framework for the work as outlined in the first report, including the need to respect a budgetary framework, and thus the closed envelopes defined by the government. The final report was delivered late last week by the Chairman of the National Pension Committee. So I'll get to know about it. However, discussions between government representatives and trade union organizations continue within the Public Sector Commission of the National Pensions Committee. I would point out that the federated entities participate in the work of this Commission, in particular the representatives of the Communities. It is therefore necessary to await the outcome of these consultations before defining the pension rights linked to a recognition as a heavy occupation and to draw up the regulatory texts. This work will be carried out so that the new provisions can enter into force on 1 January 2019. It should be stressed that a new consultation will take place after the texts have been drawn up, since they still have to be submitted to trade union negotiations. For the public sector, they will be examined by Committee A in which the federated entities are represented. For the private sector, they will be reviewed by the Management Committee of the Federal Pension Service and the Independent Management Committee. I would point out that in the public sector, heavy trades and hard work are linked to the tyranny preferences and that we have committed ourselves not to abolish them until the criteria of hardness have been implemented.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic732x.u26	Minister, I am not particularly hopeful of your answer. For the record, I don't blame you. The social partners must now take on their responsibilities. If there is one file on which they have a better view and in which they have to accept their responsibility, then it is the file of the heavy professions. This is really important to us and to the government. We are in favour of defining heavy professions on the basis of objective criteria. We are in favour of the inclusion of measures. We have said on several occasions that it should not only be about early retirement, but also about lighter tasks and end-of-life plans for the professions that are defined as heavy. This will be one of the most important points in the whole pension debate that is currently under way, in itself, to make longer work acceptable. If I understand your answer correctly, I hope, together with you, that the social partners will ease their attitude and find each other, so that we can effectively find a solution by 1 January 2019.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic732x.u27	Minister, I am not much more informed about this response. As far as timing is concerned, I understand that the deadline is 1 January 2019. We will see how things will evolve in the coming weeks. You're going to pick up your hand and come with texts. If I understand correctly, timing and texts will be differentiated between public service and the private sector, which could create discrimination. The same profession, depending on whether it is in one sector or the other, could be subject to a different degree of penitibility. That is quite regrettable. I am not surprised that you remain in the logic of closed envelopes, as they have been determined. That will be a problem. Either there will be sprinkling, since many difficult tasks and occupations will receive an amount not representative of their penitibility; or there will be a choice to be made – we will see which – and a whole series of trades will see their tantème deleted without their penitibility being recognized.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic732x.u28	Minister, it is not always easy to make the consultation model work. That's too bad. I think everyone regrets that there are no solutions. I also think it is encouraging that consultation with the officials is going well. Perhaps that could be an engine to continue working on the proposal of the heavy-duty professions, both in the public sector and in the private sector. I think this is an important element to take on board. That is why I think it is important that this dialogue should remain open. If you are looking for solutions for the public sector, the line with the private sector must also be kept open. Keeping the line open to me is something other than saying that if we have texts, we will go to this or that official organization that has to give its advice. I think it is equally important that the lines remain open for consultation. There are many different elements in the discussion on the heavy professions. I am thinking of the portability for the people, but certainly also of the work organisation. We have already experienced a lot of evolution in this regard. From dragging and pulling suits versus forklifts and other systems to mechanically lift things. One must not be an alibi for another to be able to develop a good system. You have also made it quite clear that tantiemes are linked to solutions for the heavy professions. It must also reassure people that one cannot do without the other, that this must go hand in hand.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic732x.u29	Minister, if there is one subject that is the subject of a class struggle, it is the issue of career ends. It is necessary to look at the gradient of sociological classes; the length of career ends is found in the most manual and heavy occupations, in the practical sense of the term. I can therefore understand that the views of employers and employees are more than different. Just see the burn-out explosion in our society today. It is not due to a natural or biological phenomenon. No, it is the organization of work in our society that causes the number of burnouts among the thirty-year-olds to multiply by six. We're not even talking about the sexagenaires yet! Imagine the production system we are setting up! I'm surprised you're working here with a closed envelope. The logic would be to negotiate together to determine the heavy trades on the basis of objective criteria, before ascertaining the needs resulting therefrom. It is necessary to be able to decide for which exceptions will be made. Here, I feel like we're turning things around. We close the envelope, and then we organize the struggle between the workers to decide which sectors will have access to these exceptions. It's not the right way to work. You have to take a stand. I hear you have to wait for the consultation. Gradually, we begin to understand where the boss wants to go. It's pretty clear, and he said it again on July 13. For him, it's about night work. It is time for the political authority, in the general interest, to take a position. The general interest is not that of the employer, only with his night work. I'm expecting the MR to sort it out a little bit. You can do it, Minister. I'm sure of it. Ask them to be serious and think about the general interest, and not just their own business. In the coming weeks, we may be able to see you grab the leap again, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic732x.u30	If the speakers agree, I would like to add something on the closed envelopes. There's obviously a misunderstanding. These are closed envelopes because we want to know where we're going. The closed envelopes of the public sector are parallel to the tantèmes and do not fall from the sky. One kind of recycles the tantèmes in penitibility. Far from the idea of giving budgetary lessons, but 40 million over a year, what does that mean? These are not rights when you take your pension. These are the pension rights of that year only. It's huge. If it were the rights at the end of the career, it wouldn't be that much, but it's not that. The money is huge. There's really a misunderstanding about what these moneys represent. I advise you to investigate.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic732x.u31	There's the money recovered by the tantèmes.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic732x.u32	Yes, of course. It's in there.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic732x.u33	Recycling takes place at the end of the race and, in the short term, it is a beneficiary for the budget.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic732x.u34	Time lag is possible. But the sums for a year of pension rights are very important. The question is how to use them in the most judicious way. We need to come up with agreements on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic732x.u35	(...) It is therefore a question of political scale and priorities. It is not a one shot, but the debate will be to determine who will be entitled to it. To the National Pension Committee, you told yourself that the envelope was closed. We're not going to start with the criteria, then see who's involved and see the envelope. That would have been another methodology. Or this is what is being done and the social partners have not understood! An envelope that is not open, I tend to consider it closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic732x.u36	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Fonck's 19546 will be converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic732x.u37	Minister, you were able to read like me that at the end of June, the Higher Employment Council issued recommendations to improve the employment rate. Indeed, it is regrettable that our employment rate does not increase and remains well below the target set. Among the recommendations, the Conseil Supérieur de l'Emploi proposes that the point system be moved as quickly as possible and, above all, that the statutory retirement age at age 67 be set up ten years in advance, i.e. in 2020. These are two measures - I will refer in particular to this second measure - to which we have opposed! We have obviously opposed the postponement of the pension age to 67 and now we want to anticipate it by advancing to 2020 and impose it directly on all workers, to compensate for the fact that we are unable to raise the employment rate. Minister, what is your opinion on this recommendation? Does this inspire you to move the pension forward at age 67 to 2020? Have you discussed this with your colleague, Employment Minister Kris Peeters, who said that it would be difficult to impose this measure, which is already almost implying that it is favourable if it is feasible?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic732x.u38	The report of the Higher Employment Council highlights the significant increase in the Walloon and Brussels regions, since each has managed to increase its employment rate by more than one percentage point compared to 2015. As a result, the employment rate has increased well. You said earlier that this was not the case!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic732x.u39	I said that, overall, it is not increasing and that we are not meeting the target set with Europe...
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic732x.u40	Oh, no! No, no!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic732x.u41	I am pleased that this figure is increasing in the Walloon and Brussels regions. Regional policies were therefore not bad.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic732x.u42	With the delay, thanks to the policy inspired by the Socialist Party for years, it is normal that we are not yet at the desired level! I have taken note with great interest of the recommendations of the Higher Employment Council (ESC) last June, by which it calls on the government to implement the point pension as soon as possible. Is that right?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic732x.u43	That's what I've unfortunately read...
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic732x.u44	You don't like this measure! The SSC also recommends that the statutory retirement age be increased to 67 years by 2020. Its mission is, among other things, to make recommendations to promote job creation. I therefore attach great importance to the opinions and advice of the Committee, especially since its members are personalities with great expertise in employment, both at federal and regional level. They have a wide range of political affinities. There is the general administrator of Forem, the executive director of Actiris... They are not bad liberals, at first sight. I am pleased that the Council supports the point system and the raising of the statutory pension age, which are two important reforms brought forward by the government. It is not my intention to anticipate raising the legal age to 67. It will therefore remain 66 years in 2025 and 67 years in 2030, despite the demand of several eminent socialist personalities. I will therefore stick to what is provided for in the government agreement, and I have not agreed with my colleague, Minister Kris Peeters, on this possibility, because it is not on the agenda.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic732x.u45	Minister, you scared me at the beginning of your speech when you expressed your great interest in reading the report. I thought I had to be even more worried than when I put my question. But you have finished your speech by reassuring me by saying that you would remain at the time defined in the beginning and to the extent that I do not agree with anything and on which we will still have the opportunity to intervene by 2030.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic732x.u46	Minister, in June we learned that the Federation of Belgian Enterprises (FEB) had unilaterally decided to put an end to the discussions on the ongoing pension reform in the Group of 10. How do you feel about this? What are the reasons for this? Do you have any information on this matter? Have you met with the social partners to ensure that the discussions resume? If so, what are the positions of each other? Are we moving towards a resumption of dialogue? It is known that this is particularly necessary in the area of pensions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic732x.u47	Mr Daerden, like you, I learned last June that discussions between the social partners on several pension reforms had ended. The Prime Minister and I had already been informed by letter dated 7 February 2017 from the President of the Group of 10 that the social partners wanted "to carry out in the next four months, within the Management Committee of the Federal Pension Service, an in-depth analysis of the impact, both budgetary and social, of the following pension issues: career unit, salary ceiling, minimum pension, solidarity contribution and regularisation of years of study". On 28 February, I provided the Chairman of the Management Committee, as requested by him, with a statement of the progress of the various files involved in this analysis. Several working groups have been set up by the Chair of the Management Committee. The desire to bring added value to the design of reforms gave hope for a positive result. Unfortunately, nothing emerged from these discussions between the social partners to which we were not invited. The real reasons for this failure are not known. Some mention too wide differences between the social partners on the issues raised. Others see this as a result of difficult discussions on employment issues, including the rules on youth notice and pay. As you know, I am a strong supporter of social dialogue. However, I cannot wait indefinitely for important reforms to come to fruition, especially since the Management Committee has already delivered an opinion on several of these issues and the reforms are therefore well under way.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic732x.u48	Thank you for this information, Minister. But as I understand it, you do not have much hope for the resumption of dialogue at the level of the Group of Ten on these issues. Even if you are a great supporter of consultation as you have just expressed it, you are not doing much to promote it. You are eager to implement your reforms, you feel that there is a blockage and therefore you will, if I may say so, take advantage of it to move forward without consultation. That is what I must conclude from your speech.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic732x.u49	This theme comes back to our debates on a regular basis. Even today, when we talk about partial pension and penitibility, it is mentioned that these parameters will also have to be integrated into the point system. In your note, which is mainly a succession of questions rather than orientations, we do not yet see it very clearly. How do you intend to integrate these aspects into the point system? Discussions on penitibility will continue regardless of the introduction of the point pension. You do not intend to wait for the point pension to move forward on the implementation of penitibility. Can you confirm that again? On the point system, the discussion is centered around the value of the point, a central element of our concerns. Could you be more precise on how to guarantee the value of the point and maintain the purchasing power of pensioners and, moreover, on the fact that, as we fear, the point is only an element of budgetary, economic and demographic adjustment? What are your intentions in this regard? How will you avoid that, through this and even if other parameters can also be used, there is an impact on the first pillar pension? We read that the introduction and transition of the current system to the point pension system could have a significant budgetary cost. Has this information been updated, evaluated in terms of IT investments, additional staff commitment to make the transition?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic732x.u50	Mr Minister, my question is also about the point system and how it is worked out in concrete terms. Firstly, is there any more clarity about the timing of the discussions on this point system? I understand that there have been policy questions in that context. Will these questions also be put to Parliament? Is this being discussed internally within the working group or working groups? In what way will this take shape? Secondly, you have just reiterated that you will come to Parliament with some sort of framework law. How do you see this framework law? I suspect this will happen before the end of this legislature. Thirdly, is there any clarity on the technical basis of the system? How does that happen? Fourthly, when it comes to the points system, people are particularly concerned that they will get less. In the context of the various parameters that would be used for this system, the economic situation could also be a parameter. What are the consequences if there is a low economy? Will that have consequences, like a lower pension? That's what people worry about. What will be the answer to that? After all, we have included in the coalition agreement that no one will go backwards. Finally, is there any way that a large simulation will be provided? I believe that this is particularly important to know what the consequences are for people. It is easy to say that one will not go backwards overall, but it can happen individually. And that could be a problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic732x.u51	As you know, in order to continue the debate on the substance of the point pension system, I have forwarded to the National Pension Committee a note containing a set of comments and questions which should at least be answered with a view to implementing the point pension system. The main objective of this note is to structure, to some extent, the continuation of the debate. On the basis of that note, discussions were resumed in the National Pension Committee on Friday 15 September. Since the talks are ongoing, I am not in a position to provide further clarifications. The outcome of the discussions in the National Pension Committee will, as always, be the subject of the report. I will then draw up texts which I will submit to the social dialogue through the usual bodies, the Management Committee of the Federal Pension Service and the Committee A. As far as simulations are concerned, the Federal Planning Office is currently preparing an instrument with the Academic Council to simulate the impact of structural reforms, such as the pension system with points. I can also tell you that it is the administrations that indicate that it would be possible to anticipate the implementation of the point system at 2025 rather than 2030. You're talking about the simultaneousity between partial pension and penitibility. Both will come into force before the point system. In my mind, as early as 2019. However, we will ensure that the mechanisms chosen can be transposed into the point system. We will work in terms of points of penitibility rather than on the basis of the current pension rights system. We really need to make all reforms compatible with the point system. The discussions on penitibility will continue in parallel with those on point pensions, in any case within the special committee on the public sector. As far as the private sector is concerned, the discussion is currently a little more complicated, but I hope that the public sector committee will have a knock-on effect on the other sectors. Mr Daerden, this is not a particular budgetary cost. All reforms involve mobilising IT resources and working on budget costs; but the administration itself considers that this is not linked, as such, to point pension. It is linked to all the reforms that we are implementing today. These budgets are fully compatible with the functioning of the SPF Pensions. In relation to the value of the point: it is necessary to stop with this. It's poisoning! I don't know why some people want to scare people. Is it doing them a favor? I have doubts. As I have already indicated on a number of occasions, particularly in my note, the value of the point will never diminish. On the other hand, yes, there will be a relationship with the level of wages, since the pension is always a replacement rate in relation to wages. Yes, the evolution of the point's value has a bearing on wage developments. That's normal. I don't see how we can do anything else. But then, all of a sudden, the value of the point will diminish because the government needs to save money, it's total delusion! That's not how it works. The National Pension Committee will have a role to play in determining the point value each year. There will be clear beacons. It is not the government that will decide to reduce the value of the point because it wants to. That's bullshit! It's not about that at all. The aim is to ensure that, in times of very high economic conditions and at a time when wage margins are increasing, for example when the Group of Ten is reaching an agreement to increase wages, the value of the point is taken into account. I mean it! That is what we are talking about. It is not a question of considering the value of the item as a way of adjusting the state budget. This has never been considered as such.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic732x.u52	Minister, I hear your comments on this aspect of the value of the point. However, in view of the decisions that have been taken in recent months and years, allow me to be suspicious. I await the texts to see the guarantees that will be put on the value of the point and, above all, even more fundamental, on the amount of the pension. Adequate pensions and pensions must be guaranteed to ensure a decent standard of living. You point out, I can understand, that it is still a little early to go into the details of what the precise texts and modalities will be. When do you think you're writing the texts, so that you can start a real discussion? For the time being, it is difficult to have a substantive discussion.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic732x.u53	Minister, I have always understood the pension system with points in the sense that it would mean clarification and simplification. I hope it will be, because if there is a very complicated system behind it, it will not be that simple. I also always thought that the system would have a combination of intergenerational solidarity, in particular that everyone gets in and that solidarity plays both between and within the generations. This would also play a part in the stability of prosperity of the points that would be allocated and also in the coefficient, which would have to cope with cyclical fluctuations. It remains important to maintain a minimum of what is feasible and what is possible, so that we give sufficient security, both to today's pensioners and tomorrow's young people, who will have to cope with it in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic732x.u54	Minister, Secretary of State De Backer, has expressed the wish to extend flexi-jobs to pensioners. In the debate on flexi-jobs led by his predecessor, we stressed the risks of flexi-jobs. It is not all to be rejected, but I think that without a beacon, there is a risk of a shift from the labour market to a more precarious market for workers. The financing of social security is also at stake. These elements have been highlighted, but let's go back to the pensioners. A number of measures are being taken to encourage pensioners to continue working. We can be glad that they have this opportunity if they want to. We can question the fact that we are not putting a limit on them, but this is another debate. They should not end up being forced to take flexi-jobs to compensate for a first pillar pension that would be insufficient to survive or to ensure an adequate standard of living. Minister, what is your opinion on this measure to extend flexi-jobs to pensioners? Do you see this as a complement to your reforms? The Secretary of State told us in committee that the extension of flexi-jobs was requested by companies and pensioners themselves. Have you received similar requests? Have you consulted with the Secretary of State on this measure, and more specifically on the establishment of possible benchmarks in this regard?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic732x.u55	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as far as authorised work is concerned, it is worth recalling that the pension rules provide that the pensioner may have unlimited income at the age of 65 or when he has had a career of 45 years. In the event of an early pension or survivor's pension, the pensioner must respect income limits. These limits vary in particular according to the possible burden of a child, which is rather rare, and according to the nature of the professional activity (employee, self-employed, civil servant, agent). In the last budget conclave, the government decided to allow the pensioner to exercise flexi-job. In addition, it provided for a tax and social exemption for pensioners and those working in a four-fifths working scheme for a supplementary occupational income of up to EUR 500 per month. In fact, these measures do not have an impact at pension regulation level, but rather at employment level for flexi-job conditions, at tax level for tax exemption, and at social affairs level for social exemption. With regard to the technical development of these measures, I should like to refer you to the appropriate minister. But know that the measure has been taken by the government and therefore with full knowledge of all the ministers concerned.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic732x.u56	Minister, thank you for your response and for confirming that the measures are being implemented in a completely harmonious manner at the government level. I will have the opportunity to discuss this issue with the Secretary of State, the Minister of Employment and even the Minister of Health on the issue of the financing of social security. But that's not really your problem!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic732x.u57	This is a question that was asked in July, not yet really aware of the timing of the coming of the law. We will therefore have the opportunity to discuss this further in the course of October-November. One or the other element could perhaps already feed our thinking by then. You announce that 50% of the premiums paid under the second pillar may, under certain conditions, be deducted from the contributions paid by the municipality to the competent pension fund. Can you explain to us what these conditions are for the 50% imputation? Is this measure accompanied by other incentives? What is the breakdown by Region of the number of local authorities which already have a supplementary pension plan for their staff and which will therefore benefit from some form of boon effect of this incentive? This is not really an incentive because they already have the second pillar, so they will be able to take advantage of this imputation. Can you confirm to me that teachers will not be affected by this reform of mix between the period when we are not yet appointed and the period when we are appointed? Will any other exceptions be included in your text?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic732x.u58	Mr Minister, my own question has also been added to that. My question concerns the consolidated pension fund for local authorities. At a previous meeting we discussed that this is under pressure. You replied at that time that there was a temporary thesaurus problem arising from the time between the collection of the response contribution and the pension costs to be covered, without compromising the payment of pensions. You indicated at that time, in order to remedy that thesaurus problem, that the local pension management committee adopted proposals which, on the one hand, aim at the monthly payment of the response contribution and, on the other hand, would progressively accelerate the collection of the response contribution, in order to ensure that the expenditure of the year corresponds to the revenue of the same year, i.e. a catch-up operation. Minister, while we are a while away, I would like to ask you the following questions. From when will local authorities have to pay the response fee in monthly advances? Have you prepared projections on how the progressive character of the acceleration can be shaped and its impact on local finances? If so, what projections have already been prepared? When will the phased, accelerated collection of the response contribution begin? This is very important, as local authorities are all currently working on their budgets and adapting their multiannual plans. Will you provide concrete simulations of the impact of the double measure to the municipalities in the light of the format of their multi-annual planning? When will these simulations be available and made available to local authorities? If the local authorities didn't have them yet, I wonder what would keep you from delivering those simulations. What legal initiatives will you take to allow the adjustment of payment frequency and accelerated collection to take place in good time? What arrangements do you provide for the local authorities which would be faced with payment problems as a result of this double adjustment?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic732x.u59	Minister, I think it all has to do with each other. One section is the consolidated public pension and the other is the link to mixed pensions, as envisaged. In the coalition agreement the decision was taken and this is in progress. The government agreement also set a date on which this mixed pension would come into effect, but you have always said that the link would be made between the availability of a supplementary pension and the introduction of that mixed pension. Otherwise, there would be a loss of pension rights, which people could possibly count on. Mr Minister, I have the following questions. What is the state of the art of the designs? From what date will the mixed pension be calculated and paid? What date will be used as a reference moment? What moment are you taking? Will that be the date of the appointment decision, as published in the Belgian Official Journal, or of the previous year in which people took up an internship and, on that basis, are appointed with retroactive effect? An exception was provided for temporary statutory teaching staff. Will that exception be retained? As regards the supplementary pension, which would be built up for mixed careers in the public sector, a budget of EUR 32 million would be allocated. What is the level of contribution corresponding to this? One of the incentives for supplementary pensions was to tell the social partners that we are aiming for a 3%. To what extent does this amount of EUR 32 million correspond to our own federal officials? In what way do you possibly provide for a budgetary growth path? I have the same concern about this supplementary pension, which is still to be built up by both regional and local authorities. If I have understood Flemish Minister Homans correctly, she does not intend to do much about it. There are also questions on the Walloon side. Something may have evolved in the meantime, but I'm still getting back to the information I got about this from the press. I heard a similar concern from the Brussels and Walloon governments, which are also responsible for local authorities. They wondered how incentives could be given, including for their own officials. None of that is so obvious. I don't know if there's any discussion on that and if you have incentives for that. Did they perhaps all at their communion promise that budgets will be allocated at Walloon, Brussels and Flemish level to local authorities? I don't have to draw a picture. Mr Stefaan Vercamer also referred to the budgetary difficulties of many local authorities, who have to make the necessary contributions to their own civil servants' pensions and also to build this up. Do you propose incentives for a reasonable build-up of these pensions with local authorities? For many local authorities, these percentages are very low, ranging from 0.5 % to 1 %. However, there are cities that, although they claim to be in a poor financial situation, can invest up to 8%. I think there are big differences. The question is how the federal government can overcome or bridge this.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic732x.u60	Mr. President, I'm a little puzzled. Or am I developing my bill today? All the questions you ask me is my explanatory statement and the discussion on the bill, which I am developing on October 3. Or am I doing it today? But then we have to row the members of the commission.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic732x.u61	If I understand you correctly, you suggest that we discuss this during the design process. Not for me. But you must understand that the questions will be put when the problem arises. Although the design is not yet in progress, we are already interested in what is ahead and in what is happening. The agenda does not fit in when you submit a draft. Questions arise when problems arise on the ground. Then the questions will be asked. I understand that you are proposing to deal with this during next week's discussion. Let me get this straight.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic732x.u62	In 14 days, I guess? Not next week?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic732x.u63	October 17.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic732x.u64	So not during the discussion of the draft that you initiated today?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic732x.u65	No, that's a different design.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic732x.u66	On October 17, we deal with the mixed pension.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic732x.u67	Good. Your draft has not yet been submitted. So we can't know what's inside. You can't blame us for asking questions about that.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic732x.u68	This is not the parliamentary habit, sorry! I've been a group leader for 15 years, I know how it works! You never do that! While the committee is set and we know that the project is going to be discussed, we do not anticipate the whole project in detail!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic732x.u69	I had a little anticipated the minister's reaction by saying so. I realize the rather special nature of having answers to specific questions at such a time as close to the presentation of the text. It is the presiding officer who tells us what he expects from the minister. I would understand that there is no discussion on these issues today, except on one or the other element that would already be of public policy. In any case, in the statement of the 17th, we will need to have the answers to our questions today in order not to have to rest them in the general discussion on 7 November.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic732x.u70	Minister, I have no problem getting the answers to our questions when discussing this draft. I had focused my questions on the supplementary pension and how it will be further implemented and financially supported by the various governments. I didn't know this was part of your design. The questions were asked in temporary non-suspecto. The newspapers were full of all kinds of ideas and designs all along, and then it is the logic itself that we are asking questions about this in order to clarify things. I have no problem postponing this if you can provide effective answers to all our questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic732x.u71	Ladies and gentlemen, I note your agreement that we will take these questions with us to the discussion of the draft that the Minister will be submitting.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic732x.u72	Mrs Fonck left her question No. Turn 20350 into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic732x.u73	Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I have drawn up a list of the various topics which will be discussed or which we have heard will be covered by texts. As you know, in relation to supplementary pensions, we place particular emphasis on collective supplementary pensions as they exist today. We have always emphasized democratisation and the generalization of supplementary pensions. We want not only a generalisation but also a deepening of these pensions. This means that more people must be able to receive a supplementary pension and, at the same time, the sums paid for that supplementary pension will be raised to a higher level so that they can be a real supplement, which is not the case for everyone today. The government agreement effectively states that there would be an additional second pillar, with a deduction of wages by the employer. Here too, we believe it is important that a collective system be set up, that everyone should be included and that not only the financially strongest individuals who already have the third pillar today should ultimately be included in this supplementary pension system. I don't know to what extent that's already been thought through? What will be the contours of the contributions at the employee's request? How will this system work? Will this be linked to a minimum wage by the employer, or will there be a system that encourages different employers together to try to set up a system that their employees can then catch up with if the individual employers do not see it coming? Has this been discussed with the social partners and with the National Pension Committee? What is the state of play of the consultations that are in progress in this area? Our main concern is that this will contribute to further democratization and will not lead to a reduction in the second pillar of pensions but to an effective strengthening. We do not want a two-speed system within that second pension pillar. Can you give us the necessary reassurance, because we would not like to see that. Is there going to be a timely evaluation of the system so that we do not go down the road of the elitistisation of supplementary pensions rather than democratisation? Our question is, above all, how the democratisation of supplementary pensions will be achieved.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic732x.u74	At this stage of the dossier, I do not wish to comment on the contours and limits of the free supplementary pension for employees. I would like to continue my work on this matter for a few weeks. There has therefore been no exchange of views with the social partners. As part of the preparation of this dossier, I have already met members of the Academic Council. I can assure you that the objective of the free supplementary pension for employees is not to replace the second pension pillar, which is built on a collective basis, particularly at the level of companies or sectors. The free supplementary pension mainly aims to offer an additional instrument to the many employees whose employer or sector does not provide a supplementary pension. As regards the evaluation mechanism of the measure, this measure should be introduced before its development can be considered.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic732x.u75	When I hear it like that, you have a busy agenda for consultation and preparation in the next few weeks, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic732x.u76	Minister, I hear you say that the aim will certainly not be to replace the second pillar, which has a collective basis. I'd like to supplement this. Nor do I want it to have as a side effect that it should not be democratized and developed further. That collective is a very important concern for us. That is also why the minimum return guarantee is linked to it. I hope that this will not be lost and that we will not allow the right of the strongest to prevail over the opportunities and opportunities of the weaker to take along with us.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic732x.u77	Mrs Becq, you have the floor for your question. 20412 on the preferential rates and the weightings applicable to the pensions of civil servants.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic732x.u78	Mr President, perhaps I should withdraw this question officially? It concerns the combination with the heavy professions and the preferential tantiemes. The Minister has actually already replied to that. If you have more elements, you can always say so. If not, I think I'd better withdraw this question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic732x.u79	Mr Minister, I am not talking in this question about the civil servants' double or shared careers, but about the real mixed careers, employee-official-self-employed, in any order. I do not have exact figures on this, but I am told that they are rising. So more and more people have a mixed career. There was a concern about the mixed minimum pension. We have taken a step towards a mixed employee-self-employed minimum pension. A tie-up and an increase have been achieved, but the problem of mixed career officials remains. I thought we had included in the coalition agreement that we would also take care of those people. That anomaly continues to drag, hence my question about the state of play. Are there any figures available? What is the evolution of the number of people in a mixed career over the past five years? I don't know if you have those numbers, but I'm very interested in them. How many persons are involved in the combinations of employee-self-employed, self-employed and employee-self-employed civil servant? Is that breakdown possible? What is the timing for your possible initiatives for the mixed career and minimum pension for the mixed career official-worker?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic732x.u80	My associate will present you a table of figures that were communicated to me by the Federal Pension Service. During the autumn, I will continue to examine the reform of the minimum pension. This reform includes, inter alia, the taking into account of career years as a statutory official for the career conditions for the minimum pension. I have put forward the hypothesis of granting the minimum pension after an effective career of 20 years. Today, a person with 15 years of effective employment and 15 years of inactivity can receive the minimum pension, while a person who has worked full-time for 29 years, on the basis of his career, is not entitled to the minimum pension. The philosophy behind the minimum pension reform is to strengthen the link between the career performance and the pension amount, as is the case for the whole pension reform. Taking into account that the reform can only start one year later, since a pension can only be applied for one year in advance, the mixed minimum pension should start in 2019.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic732x.u81	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I'm looking forward to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic732x.u82	Mr. Spooren, you may close this working day. The remaining questions have been withdrawn, postponed or converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic732x.u83	Mr President, I would like to congratulate you on this fantastic performance. You're sitting there like a cast. This question, which is about purchasing years of study, is somewhat dated. However, my last two questions, which are about mypension.be, are absolutely not dated. Is there also a tool on mypension.be that can be calculated whether or not it is interesting to purchase years of study? Do you foresee an information campaign? Both questions have been asked before, but perhaps you can give an update?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic732x.u84	Mr President, I have asked the Federal Pension Service to develop a simulation tool that allows us to calculate the impact on the pension amount of purchasing years of study. The FPD has confirmed to me that this tool will be available in February 2018. Moreover, the simulation tool will be gradually complemented by other scenarios that allow citizens to know the impact of certain career choices on their pension amount in the course of 2018. Indeed, I foresee an information campaign, in collaboration with the FPD, to inform the public about the purchase of academic years. This campaign will be launched on 1 December 2017, corresponding to both the entry into force of the legislative text and the start of the envisaged transitional period from 1 December 2017 to 30 November 2020. This information campaign will focus on explanatory films, brochures, information sessions intended for professionals and a website www.koeuwstudiejaar.be and www.studyjaarafbukken.be.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic732x.u85	Minister, this is certainly a lot more information than what was said in plenary last week.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-09-26-54-commissie-ic732x.u86	We look forward to that simulator, Minister, because I understand that it will not be operational so soon.
