ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic587x.u1	Minister, each State that has ratified the Aarhus Convention is required to submit a report to the international secretariat of the Aarhus Convention on the implementation of its provisions in its territory. During the preparation of this report, public participation on the draft report must be organised. In 2016, for the fifth time, the federal state and the three Regions prepared their reports, which were submitted for public consultation. Minister, can you provide an update on citizen participation in this public consultation? What lessons could be learned from this consultation? What follow-up has been given to citizens' comments?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic587x.u2	The public consultation of the fifth implementation report to the Aarhus Convention took place from 4 October to 10 November 2016. It was organised via information posted on the website of each environmental administration via the Belgian Aarhus Convention portal www.aarhus.be, as well as on the website-portail belgium.be. The final report was tabled in December 2016 at the Aarhus Convention Secretariat in Geneva. Two comments were received on the draft federal report. The Belgian platform of environmental associations' federations reacted to the implementation of the Aarhus Convention as a whole at the federal level, while Greenpeace reacted exclusively to the implementation of the access to information pillar at the federal level. For the platform, in addition to the positive progress made in the implementation of the Access to Information and Public Participation pillar, it nevertheless considers that the access to justice pillar still creates significant difficulties. The platform highlights the need for significant progress in improving access to justice for environmental NGOs, particularly in terms of interest in action. Greenpeace points out that some of its requests for access to information have not been fully or partially successful in the context of Belgium's implementation of the EU TR Regulation, which aims to prohibit the placing on the European market of tropical timber from an illegal harvest. The Environment DG of the FPS Public Health has taken these remarks into account, which will help it even better to implement the Aarhus Convention, in accordance with the legislation in force and the case law developed at European and Belgian level. As with each report, a summary of the public comments was made by DG Environment and incorporated into the official report. The reactions made by the platform and Greenpeace were also sent in extenso as an annex to the federal report. The final report and comments received are available on the Aarhus Convention's national portal, as well as on the Public Health FPS website. The feedback of the public consultation was also announced on the Belgian government's portal site. No citizen commented on the federal report.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic587x.u3	Minister, thank you for this complete and accurate answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic587x.u4	Madam President, Minister, in 2014, the European Union adopted a new framework for climate and energy by 2030. For sectors not included in the emissions trading system, the European target for 2030 is to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by at least 30%. This objective applies to the European Union as a whole. Each Member State must therefore participate in the effort. In this regard, you made it clear in the committee of 9 November 2016 that the European Council of Environment Ministers of 17 December 2016 was going to determine the package to be returned to Belgium, in terms of mandatory and voluntary efforts to be made by 2030. Madam Minister, have the objectives set for Belgium by the European Commission been mentioned during the Council meeting? What is now the continuation of the procedure? What is the status of consultations with the Regions to determine the distribution of efforts among the entities of the country? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic587x.u5	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, at the meeting of the Council on 19 December 2016, the Commission and the Maltese Presidency presented the state of play of the technical discussions on the proposals for Regulations ETS and LULUCF, which are being held in the Council's ad hoc working group: the Working Party on the Environment. The Council took note of the progress made on these two proposals. Delegations briefly referred to the positions already known on the two most thorny topics, namely the starting point for calculating the 2021-2030 trajectory and the flexibility between the ETS pillar and the LULUCF pillar. Belgium, represented by the Flemish Minister of the Environment, Ms Joke Schauvliege, recalled that the national targets for 2030 proposed by the Commission must be based on GDP per capita and adjusted on the basis of cost-effectiveness, in accordance with the conclusions of the European Council of October 2014. It is also felt that the ESR proposal should be seen as a package, with the required efforts determined not only by the final 2030 target but also by the starting point and flexibilities granted. In view of all these elements, Belgium considers that the proposal to share efforts is generally balanced. As regards the continuation of the procedure, the Presidency has the ambition to reach a general approach by the Council on the occasion of the Environment Council on 19 June. To prepare for this agreement, a number of deliberations are planned at the level of the EU Environment Working Group. With regard to the consultations on the distribution of efforts between the Federal and the Regions, I can inform you that the discussions have not yet started, since no decision has been taken at European Union level on national objectives. I hope that the discussions will conclude by June next, in order to be able to start work at Belgian level, on the internal distribution of efforts for the period 2021-2030. It goes without saying that this new burden sharing will be part of a better intra-Belgian coordination of energy and climate policy. Indeed, the progress in the development of energy impacts with the Regions, as well as the start of work on the preparation of the draft national integrated Energy-Climate 2030 plan, which Belgium will have to submit to the European Commission by 1 January 2018, give me great hope that the distribution of efforts for the period under review will be possible in this spirit of good cooperation among all the levels of power concerned. I will not fail to keep you informed of further developments. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic587x.u6	Madam Minister, thank you for reminding us of the content of the meeting of the Council of European Ministers in December 2016, the 2021-2030 trajectory you are referring to, and your relative optimism in this regard. If I hear what you are telling us on 19 June, we will have to make decisions with specific objectives, so that the Regions and the federal government can agree on common objectives in their working group. I would like to come back in early July to ask you a supplementary question on this subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic587x.u7	Madam President, Minister, on October 28, 2016, the Council of Ministers adopted the federal contribution to the National Climate Change Adaptation Plan, which is part of the preparation of the National Adaptation Plan, which itself constitutes one of the three main objectives of the National Adaptation Strategy. Initially, the Plan was announced by the end of 2012. Last November, you announced that it was finalized but that it still had to be approved by the National Climate Commission (CNC). You also indicated that you intend to put it on the agenda of the December meeting of the CNC. Minister, were you able to discuss the National Adaptation Plan at this meeting? Could it have finally been approved? If so, can you provide us with details of how it will be implemented?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic587x.u8	Madam President, dear colleague, as you know, the National Adaptation Strategy provided for the development of a National Adaptation Plan by the end of 2012. We've had the opportunity to say it several times. As all of the information required (regional and federal components) to be used as input for the development of the Plan by the CNC Adaptation Working Group was not available in 2012, preparation of the Plan was postponed. Following the government's adoption of the federal contribution to the National Adaptation Plan, a draft national adaptation plan was submitted to the CNC on December 7, 2016. This draft plan briefly describes the expected effects of climate change in Belgium and their impacts on different vulnerable sectors, and provides an overview of the main existing and ongoing regional and federal initiatives on adaptation to climate change by identifying coordinated national actions to be taken to enhance the effectiveness of adaptation policies carried out by different actors. The CNC adopted the draft plan and decided to submit it for coordinated advice to the federal and regional advisory councils. We immediately, on behalf of the CNC, sought the opinion of the Federal Council for Sustainable Development together with the regional consultation bodies that are present as observers in this Council on the draft plan. Upon receipt of this opinion, which is expected later this month, the CNC Adaptation Working Group will finalize the text, the final version of which can be adopted by the CNC. The actions identified in the Plan will then be implemented in accordance with the schedule specified in the Plan.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic587x.u9	Minister, thank you for the clarification of the timetable now being implemented. We will follow the evolution of this National Plan in accordance, of course, with the provisions that you have recalled.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic587x.u10	Questions Nos 15976 and 15980 by Mrs Anne Dedry are transformed into written questions. The same is true of Mr Olivier Maingain's question No 13573.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic587x.u11	Good evening, Minister,
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic587x.u12	(...) We could have avoided a face-to-face between you and me.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic587x.u13	Here, everything's always going well.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic587x.u14	That's right, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic587x.u15	It's all in the presidency. I'm telling you!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic587x.u16	That's right!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic587x.u17	Madam Minister, the resolution adopted in the House on the eve of the Paris Conference provides for the government to plead for the issuance of green bonds (point 3.i). You will see, moreover, that most of my questions relate to the follow-up to this resolution. More than a year after the adoption of this resolution, I would like to know what action you have taken on this recommendation and what further action you intend to take in the future and on what timetable.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic587x.u18	Mr Nollet, the question of financing the investments necessary for the low-carbon transition of the energy system is central, since it is a matter of reorienting it as a whole. This involves investments amounting to several tens of billion euros per year. Last year my administration carried out a stocktaking of the flows in low-carbon investments in Belgium. We note that these are largely insufficient in the face of the challenge. We must therefore find ways to mobilize more financial flows, both private and public. The creation of green bonds is a path, which should then be designed in a sufficiently targeted manner and based on specific criteria in order to target, on the one hand, real low-carbon investments and, on the other hand, investments for which the barriers are the most important. I plan to raise this issue with Mr Johan Van Overtveldt, my Finance colleague, in order to move the discussion forward. I will keep you informed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic587x.u19	Minister, do you have any idea what the deadline is? In one, two, three months?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic587x.u20	I know you like calendars, but...
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic587x.u21	It is only to avoid resting the question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic587x.u22	I'd say at least three months.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic587x.u23	All right.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic587x.u24	We'll send him a letter hoping to get a start on the answer, so we can still dig into the question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic587x.u25	That's why I asked you the question. The resolution was adopted. You're saying this is a lead among others. However, it was retained by the House in plenary session.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic587x.u26	Madam President, Minister, the NDC Partnership, a partnership initiated by Germany and launched during COP22, brings together more than 30 countries (including the European Union) and at least 9 international institutions. This partnership is supported by the World Resources Institute and aims to develop information tools and exchange good practices among partners, to provide technical assistance and capacity-building for the implementation of the NDCs, and to facilitate access to financial assistance for this purpose. In reply to my written question on the subject, you explained to me that: "This is an extremely interesting and important initiative and I am currently examining with my administration how Belgium can participate in it." I would now like to know what conclusion you draw from this examination and whether Belgium will indeed be able to participate in this initiative which you yourself have described as "extremely interesting and important".
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic587x.u27	Mr Nollet, as you told me, the NDC Partnership was officially launched at COP22 in Marrakech in November 2016. Its main objective is to promote access to technical knowledge and funding for the implementation of the NDCs and related sustainable development goals through better cooperation between countries. One of the first activities implemented by the partnership is the NDC Funding and Initiatives Navigator, a public database of all financial support and capacity-building initiatives. I have recently asked the initiators of the partnership to inform me of the concrete modalities for joining it and I hope to have a response in the near future in order to be able to take the necessary steps. It was in this context that I had already informally notified the partnership of the initiative I took and launched at COP22 in Marrakech in favour of a few countries in implementing their contribution through specific and concrete actions, in order to contribute to strengthening their institutional capacity in the areas of greenhouse gas inventories, policy development and implementation and access to climate finance at international level. This support will be provided either through the payment of certain training courses or through the award of a contract with experts selected on the basis of a public contract. For more information on this initiative, please see www. climate.be/ndcsupport. We have already received several applications, mid-February being the deadline for applications for support. My initiative respects the general principles of the NDC Partnership, namely to support processes led by the countries themselves, to promote long-term climate action, to strengthen the capacity of countries, to promote the integration of climate action into national planning, to contribute to mitigation and adaptation actions, and to support stakeholder engagement. The NDC Partnership aims at close collaboration and greater synergies between climate and development cooperation services. In this regard, I will contact my colleague in charge of cooperation in order to seek his support. In concrete terms, my administration is already working with the Belgian Development Cooperation services to make use of potential synergies. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic587x.u28	I understand what you are already doing, initiatives that are similar to what is being developed by the partnership. My question also concerned the fact that Belgium became an official member of this partnership. You say you've written and you're waiting for an answer on this. There, you've already taken a step since you wrote. I guess I can come back in a month or two to see where it is. My question wasn't about what you're doing already. I see it well, but it was about becoming a member, which then involves a series of concrete commitments too, in addition to what is already being initiated for the moment.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic587x.u29	I don't know when they'll answer me.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic587x.u30	I'll be back in two months to see if they've answered you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic587x.u31	They're nice letters. I'm not going to put comminatorial deadlines in it.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic587x.u32	I didn't ask.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic587x.u33	Madam President, Madam Minister, the resolution adopted in the House on the eve of the Paris Conference provides that the government asks the European Union to work with all actors in civil society to develop initiatives in key sectors for mitigation as well as initiatives for adaptation and resilience (point 3x.1 of the resolution). It also provides for the Government to stress to the European Union that it should step up its efforts to transfer technology to the least developed countries (point 3.x). More than a year after the adoption of this resolution, I would like to know what action you have taken on these two recommendations and what further action you intend to take in the future and on what timetable.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic587x.u34	Madam President, Mr Nollet, the development and transfer of technology is a very important lever to enable developing countries to implement the required mitigation and adaptation actions. The European Union considers the development and transfer of technology as one of the pillars of climate action and has played an important role in setting up institutions dedicated to this issue in the context of the UN international climate convention. A framework was thus established at the Cancun Conference in 2010 in the form of a Technology Mechanism organized around two specific institutions: the Technology Executive Committee and the Climate Technology Centre and Network. The two institutions are respectively responsible for carrying out assessments and making recommendations in this regard, providing technical assistance to requesting countries. Belgium has not only actively supported the establishment of these institutions, as it led the European delegation to the Cancun COP under the Belgian Presidency of the European Union, but is also active in this area, notably through the recent appointment of a Belgian member to the Technology Executive Committee. The European Union and some of its Member States, such as Denmark, Germany, Finland and Ireland, are jointly the largest financial contributor to the Climate Technology Centre and Network, which has enabled more than 100 requests for assistance since its establishment in 2014. Belgium and the European Union have also supported, under the Paris Agreement, the creation of a new technology framework to provide general guidance to the work of Technology Mechanism to promote and facilitate enhanced action on technology transfer, in order to support the implementation of the Paris Agreement. In these different rooms, I will continue to promote the development and transfer of technology so as to increase resilience to climate change and reduce greenhouse gas emissions, stressing the importance of the participation of all relevant actors (public and private sector, NGOs, local communities and communities) in developing technological initiatives. I will also make sure that my colleague in charge of development cooperation, Minister De Croo, is made aware of the importance of integrating the fight against climate change more systematically, in particular adaptation into technological cooperation projects. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic587x.u35	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic587x.u36	Madam President, Madam Minister, the resolution adopted in the House on the eve of the Paris Conference states that the government is working to make the fight against energy poverty in developing countries one of the central objectives of the Green Climate Fund. That is point 3.u of our resolution. More than a year after the adoption of this resolution, I would like to know what action you have taken on this recommendation and what further action you intend to take in the future and on what timetable.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic587x.u37	Madam President, honourable Member, the fight against climate change and energy poverty are not incompatible objectives, you will agree. The impacts of climate change increase pressure on the poorest, and fossil fuel dependence weighs heavily on the most disadvantaged households in our country as well as around the world. Governments have a duty to ensure that all citizens are able to meet their basic needs, including access to affordable and sustainable energy, as set out in Sustainable Development Goal Seven. The production of renewable energy enables these two problems to be tackled simultaneously. Replacing fossil fuels with clean energy sources can reduce our greenhouse gas emissions even if total energy production increases. Supporting renewable energy production in developing countries will also reduce the cost of renewable energy, improving access to energy while reducing our emissions. Since the Green Climate Fund is one of the major multilateral funds for combating climate change, it is of course important that such considerations be integrated into its operation. However, let me refer you to my colleague in charge of development cooperation, Minister De Croo, for further details. It is in his administration that the representative of our country works on the board of directors of the Green Fund.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic587x.u38	I will question Minister De Croo, your colleague.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic587x.u39	Madam President, Madam Minister, the resolution adopted in the House on the eve of the Paris Conference provides that the government calls for the recognition of the status of "climate refugees" (point 3.m) and asks the government "to draw attention to the fact that climate-related events that occur can contribute to aggravating the migration crisis" (point 3.l) and we are, I think, increasingly experiencing it. More than a year after the adoption of this resolution, I would like to know what action you have taken on each of these two recommendations and what further action you intend to take in the future and on what timetable?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic587x.u40	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the impacts of global warming are already putting considerable pressure on people in different parts of the world, causing, in some cases, population displacement. This is an important new element to be taken into account in the context of migration and asylum policies. However, the legal status of these climate refugees is a complex issue that needs to be addressed with caution. The definition of climate refugees is the first obstacle. Indeed, the pressure exerted by the impacts of climate change is in general only a factor that comes in addition to other pressures that are essentially economic, but also of a health, political and security nature, which in general motivate this migration. Studies show that the decision to move or emigrate is always the result of a complex process, involving the dimensions I have just mentioned, as well as socio-cultural and cognitive factors. It seems to me that establishing a single definition of a climate refugee is a challenge. As the climate factor cannot be separated from other migration factors, the problem can only be addressed in an integrated manner within the broader framework of migration and asylum policies. A reflection on this could be carried out within this government as part of the reforms on asylum and migration under the responsibility of the Secretary of State, Theo Francken, whom I invite you to inform on the subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic587x.u41	In this respect, I do not agree, in the sense that your responsibility for defining climate refugee status, linked to your competences Sustainable development and the fact that this resolution was adopted at the Paris conference, designates you to initiate the process. This is not about taking information in this case. The resolution makes it clear that the parliament – since it was adopted in plenary – wants the recognition of climate refugee status. We need a definition - of course, it is not obvious - but it is up to you to move forward on this. I have the impression that you are taking advantage of the real complexity to relieve yourself of your responsibility on the file. My request is that you initiate the steps within the government, that you see how we can move forward so that when I ask you again what steps have already been taken to recognize this status.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic587x.u42	Waiting for Mr. Nollet's answer, I had prepared a reply. I would like to mention a few points in this regard. Far be it from me to discharge myself from any responsibility. I would like to mention that migration related to the adverse effects of climate change is one of the specific areas of action of the Warsaw international mechanism on loss and damage. Following a decision taken at COP 21, the working group was mandated to address the issue and provide recommendations for integrated approaches to prevent and reduce population displacement related to the adverse effects of climate change. This working group will report to COP23 at the end of this year and finalize its mandate at COP24 in 2018. Finally, the Migradapt project aims to work on migration for adaptation in a climate change context – I translate because I can't pronounce it in English. It is funded under the Brain programme and will provide useful information on future developments in this area. I would like to tell you that, although Belgium is a pioneer in many areas, it cannot, in any case, be alone in defining what a climate refugee is. It is necessarily international work that must be carried out in this context. That doesn't mean I'm getting rid of my personal responsibilities in the federal government, because I don't think I'm the only one who has to think about these issues – you'll agree. On the other hand, we are not the only ones who have to do this. We must do so within the international framework, using the already developed mechanisms in which we fully subscribe.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic587x.u43	Madam Minister, on the form, it is a matter of concern that I had to be firm in my reply for you to respond. I regret that you did not reply in this way at the outset, because these elements are more interesting than the answer you gave me initially. Having said that, if you think I have to be severe in order for you to give me your real answer, tell me! We'll save time. In any case, it would be a shame if this were to happen in this committee, with this chairman...
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic587x.u44	We're going to practice relational rehabilitation exercises.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic587x.u45	There! [[Laughs]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic587x.u46	Mr Nollet, (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic587x.u47	So I have to be re-educated! I'm coming to the bottom. This is indeed an issue that needs to be advanced at the international level. I like it better when you say that you are taking your responsibilities in this context rather than saying that it is Mr Franken who has to do it. These are your responsibilities, but in the international field. In this field, when I ask you again, in a few months' time, I would like to say that Belgium has been on the initiative to propose things, to table texts, to imagine a first draft definition. Even if it does not have to adopt it for itself, as long as other countries do not adopt it, I agree. Belgium must play a role as an actor in this area, as it has been able to do during Louis Michel's time in other dimensions in connection also with the question of refugees and international issues. Rather than refer to Mr. Franken, it is an alliance with Minister Reynders that you should be able to strengthen to move forward and so that, in a few months' time, we can say that we have taken initiatives. Even if you fail, I can point out that you have taken charge of things that, at the international level, will help. As you say, there are meetings at COP23 and COP24 in this area. But if we can say that Belgium has been carrying proposals, suggestions, a working group or a preliminary draft definition... - and that does not cost, I know what the budgetary problems of Belgium are - but being able to carry internationally, with a group of countries around you, as France has done for renewable energies, as other countries have done at COP22 for other initiatives. We know how the final resolutions are born, because a group of willing countries are doing the work. I believe that, thanks to the support of the resolution adopted by the plenary, you have much to do with this. We'll see if it takes or not by COP23 and COP24. That is the impetus that I would like to give back to this part of the resolution!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic587x.u48	Madam President, Madam Minister, the cooperation agreement on the sharing of the Belgian climate and energy objectives for the period 2013-2020 sets out in Article 9(2) of the Federal State's commitment to implement new policies and measures. I quote Article 9: "For the compliance period, the Federal State undertakes to... adopt and implement new internal policies and measures that result in an additional reduction in emissions of at least 7,000 ktons eq. CO2 for the period 2016 to 2020 included in accordance with the linear nature of the regional effort to reduce emissions; the federal state identifies additional policies and measures and the emission reduction achieved is calculated in accordance with a methodology previously approved by the National Climate Commission, by 31 December 2016 at the latest; the federal state will make every effort to achieve the target result." Now that this date of December 31, 2016 has passed, I would like to know this methodology. I would also like to know in detail the additional policies and measures - as well as the associated emission reductions - identified and adopted by the federal government on that same date.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic587x.u49	Mr Nollet, the government intends to make every effort to honour the commitments made under the agreement on burden sharing, including the commitment to try to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 7,000 kilotonnes of CO2 equivalent for the period 2016-2020, through the introduction of new policies and measures. Preparatory work on the identification and assessment of the impact of these new policies and measures is under way. A set of federal policies and measures that could contribute to the achievement of this objective has been identified in the field of product and transport policy. Firstly, the reduction in the consumption of fossil fuels resulting from the implementation of the Ecodesign Directive for the following appliances: water heaters, mixed heaters, decentralised heaters, solid fuel boilers, open and gas-closed fireplaces, decentralized heating systems with radiant tubes and light radiants, air heaters, water, gas, residential and non-residential ventilation units with heat recovery, gas furnaces and cooking plans. Secondly, the introduction of the positive mobility allowance, i.e. the establishment of a framework enabling the worker, whose wage package provides for a company car, with or without a petrol card, to opt for the conversion of this company car and, where appropriate, the petrol card, to a mobility budget or an increase in the net wage. Thirdly, it is a question of promoting the use of electric bicycles, by taxing the electric bicycle limited to 45 km/h for a normal bicycle, both for the tax deductibility of 22 cents per kilometre for the home-to-work journey and for the depreciation rate of 120% for the purchase of the Speed Pedelec - which is the electric bicycle limited to 45 km/h - and by extending the 15% tax reduction to the purchase of electric bicycles, the power of which can grow from 25 to 45 km/h. I shall now turn to the reduction in the energy consumption of the SNCB, both traction and non- traction. For traction energy, the reduction in the consumption of primary energy will be achieved through various measures, such as an increase in the rate of occupancy of trains; a reduction in the energy losses of stationary trains; and the introduction of more energy efficient rolling stock. For non-traction energy, the reduction in energy consumption will be achieved by continuing the renewal of heating installations in buildings, the commissioning of new workshops to replace the oldest, less energy efficient, the renovation of existing buildings by insulation, chassis change and other energy efficiency things. Information on these new federal policies and measures has been collected from the various departments concerned and methodologies are being developed to assess their impact in terms of reducing greenhouse gas emissions for the period 2016-2020. The result of this work is complete. A full report, including a description of the proposed new policies and measures, the results of the impact assessment and the related methodologies, will be made available to the members of the National Climate Commission in the near future.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic587x.u50	Minister, on the methodology side, there is a little delay compared to December 31, 2016, but this will be done very soon. If I come back in a month, then we can take stock. As for the measures themselves, if I have understood correctly, these are not yet decisions. At this stage, they are proposals, suggestions, ideas. Or have you listed any decisions?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic587x.u51	These are proposals. We still have to go into IKW with that.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic587x.u52	Will we also be set in a month or two?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic587x.u53	It will still take two months because our IKW have a lot of work to do.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic587x.u54	I'm still going to couple my two questions but move them over two months.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic587x.u55	Madam President, Madam Minister, each of the nine bodies you consulted on the draft national strategy for sustainable development rejected the text, considering that it was totally inadequate in the face of the challenges facing us: too few concrete measures, lack of reliable analysis of the situation and trends, lack of an international dimension, and I am passing on. You have managed to agree bosses, trade unions, NGOs and environmental associations. In itself, it is a feat but it is above all a reflection of the weakness of the proposed text since the common reaction of all these actors was to say that your text did not hold the road and did not have the necessary height, yet minimal. What is more, more than two years after the deadline set by law, the federal still does not have its own sustainable development plan and, despite your mouths on your partners when you presented your 2017 General Policy Note – you will remember, it was in the room next door – we still don't see anything coming, at least on the date I wrote this question. Minister, how are you going to respond to the comments of the advisory bodies? What follow-up will you give to their opinion and on what timetable? As far as the federal level is concerned, what are you going to do to get out of this abyssal vacuum, given the challenges facing us and the levers that are in the hands of the federal government, to help address them?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic587x.u56	Madam President, honourable Member, I welcome the high expectations of civil society for the national sustainable development strategy. I hope that it will also translate into commitments by everyone to contribute to the achievement of the sustainable development goals. I welcome the tour de force of the advisory bodies, which, in record time, have managed to agree on lines of action for the national sustainable development strategy. To answer your question, you have to go back to the scope of the document. As indicated in the draft for consultation with the advisory bodies, it is a paper-coupole that covers and complements the strategies of each entity in the country. These own strategies are the main drivers of the implementation of sustainable development goals (SDGs). The national sustainable development strategy is a complementary tool to ensure coherence of action between different entities in the implementation of the objectives. In addition, it identifies the first possible avenues for cooperation between these entities. It therefore sets up a process of collaboration on very concrete topics for the years to come. I have submitted the request for an opinion to the Federal Council for Sustainable Development on behalf of the Presidency of the Interdepartmental Conference on Sustainable Development, which belongs to Flanders. You know that and you notice it through my response, there are still a lot of stakeholders and consultations to be carried out, which always takes some time. To complete my response, it is a request for advice from all ministers who are members of the Interdepartmental Conference on Sustainable Development. This has the effect of affecting us all, which is the goal. This opinion will be taken into account before the adoption of the national sustainable development strategy in the coming weeks. A technical working group at the administrative level has already met at the end of December to start the work. In addition, the precise timetable for implementation will be defined with colleagues at the Interdepartmental Conference and we will ensure that the deadlines are communicated. On the federal level, the Federal Institute for Sustainable Development has carried out an inventory of existing commitments that contribute to the SDGs (government agreement, policy note, administrative contract, plan or specific initiative). This work has been carried out in close collaboration with other federal public services within the Interdepartmental Commission on Sustainable Development since June 2016. I have also consulted my colleagues on this. This allows us to identify existing initiatives and to create political ownership of the new agenda. It will then be necessary to analyse the shortcomings to be filled and the priority efforts to be made. Finally, as already announced in my 2016 policy note, the implementation of the SDGs is also done through other projects alongside the federal strategy and the national strategy, such as the launch of an awareness-raising and engagement site www.sdgs.be. The publication of brochures and the SDG Voices awareness campaign that will begin will continue in 2017. We will have an opportunity to discuss this in the next few questions that you will not fail to ask me to do so.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic587x.u57	Madam Minister, your irony about the power of the various actors and their ability to act together very quickly hides the lack of will, decisions and translations at the level of the sector and the political field that is yours. You have told us about the complexity of the situation given the number of institutions involved, the deadlines and the existing plans. However, there is still no national or federal strategy. I hope that by the next question I will not fail to ask you on this issue, you will have been able to devote more time and energy to the proper implementation of this national sustainable development strategy and, above all, to raising the ambition of the content of what you propose to the various actors, at least for your federal part. I understand that for the other levels of power, you can only call for coordination, but the federal text must have more ambitions than we currently know. That is why it was "so easy" for the actors to reject it unanimously and very quickly, as it was weak, empty and hollow in relation to the challenges and challenges facing us.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic587x.u58	My collaborator, Sophie Sokolowski, has a few words to add, since she had a meeting this morning. This will allow him to give Mr. Nollet information up to date. They may change his mind about the possible irony that he taxed me when I first answered his question. As always!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic587x.u59	I don't think there's any irony in saying that they were able to give an opinion. They don't make them every time in a joint way. With regard to the national sustainable development strategy, it was a chapeau and one could not go into the details. We won't go into the details. The text will be adopted as it stands, taking into account certain amendments proposed by the opinion boards. This morning, an ICD DD intercabinet working group took place. The various entities will submit the draft final text to their ministers for approval. The idea is to start much more concrete projects. These will not start immediately, because for the time being, all the administrative forces are focusing on the presentation of the voluntary national magazine that takes place in New York in 2017, and which Belgium has registered to show what it has done since 2015 for the implementation of the SDGs. Rather than mixing everything together, we will adopt the text of the national strategy and then focus on a text to be presented to the United Nations in July. Then, after the summer, we will begin to implement concrete projects that are included in the national strategy, including sustainable food, sustainable housing and public procurement. Many things are already programmed, but there are not enough forces in the administrations to be able to work on all at once. To return to the Federal Sustainable Development Plan, we must wait until we have identified all the shortcomings in the implementation of the various sustainable development goals, which are under federal jurisdiction, in order to be able, on the basis of these shortcomings, to draw up a plan that is relevant and meaningful. It's no use getting into anything, you have to rely on the identifications. The Federal Institute for Sustainable Development has launched a market, which is under way, to identify shortcomings on the basis of the analyses they had made of everything that has existed since 2015 in the policy notes, etc. We are going to move forward in a concrete and relevant way, but it takes a little time for this to really have an impact. We could do anything, a plan in which it looks like every FPS would care about the SDGs. Everyone would be disappointed. We can also try to be more ambitious, and that is what Mrs Marghem wants to do: a little more ambition and relevance.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic587x.u60	Thanks for the extra. I will address the minister in my reply, do not blame me, it is she who carries the policy. When I'm told that the administration has priorities, that we don't have enough resources, etc., I hear it, and I know it, because I'm in regular contact with the administration. If I address the minister, it is because her government saves on administration: - 10% on staff, - 20% on operations, - 30% on investments. Don't be surprised! For sure, the administration answers at one point: "I don't know how to do everything." That makes sense to me. Beyond this aspect, the lack of ambition is still characteristic of this issue. Without irony this time, the reaction of the actors is also to raise it. Good if it can be corrected over time! So much the better if new actions are more appropriate than the texts! I would like the record of my final reply to be commensurate with my disappointment at the delays and weaknesses noted. I'm still careful about what happens next. Good if I'm wrong, I'll be the first to rejoice in six months. But I hope that the record will also be commensurate with my disappointment at the present lack of ambition.
