ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic584x.u1	Mr President, Minister, the national debate on the carbon price was launched on Wednesday, January 25, during a study afternoon initiated by Minister Marghem. Indeed, it is time to start discussions so that Belgium can make its energy transition to a low-carbon future, as decided by the Paris Agreement in 2015 already. This is only a year-long debate on how to set a price on carbon emissions in non-ETS (Emissions Trading System) markets, i.e. markets not covered by the European emissions trading system, which apparently mainly concern residential housing, transport and agriculture. The long-awaited result would be presented at the end of the year, but Minister Marghem has already announced it: "There will be nothing but guidelines." In the press on Wednesday 25 January, the minister said that you were the great absentee of this debate. However, the link between emission reduction and energy prices is essential. Minister, do you support Minister Marghem's initiative? Will you work jointly with the Minister during the year of work? Are you prepared to follow the recommendations, if any, made by the experts? Do you consider it necessary to set a carbon price and apply the polluter-pays principle? If so, to what could tax revenues be allocated?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic584x.u2	Mr President, honourable Member, I would like to refer to the report of the Supreme Council of Finance, which has already carried out various studies on this subject and thus quantified many scenarios. I would like to draw your attention to the important part of eco-taxation in the context of the tax shift. Although I have not been directly involved in the discussions before, I remain open to the debate on eco-fiscality, which I hope will not lead to an increase in taxes but which could give us additional resources to reduce labour taxation. I stress that we must remain attentive to the "Laffer" effect, which leads to a reduction in tax revenue. Eco-taxation tends to achieve this result, with the effect on ecology being positive, while the effect on revenues is negative. We must therefore take into account this element, which could have an important role.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic584x.u3	Indeed, minister, an adage says that "too many taxes kill the tax". This adage summarizes your concern that I can understand in a certain way. In this context, I note that you set beacons, that you do not want to increase taxes and that if additional means are found, they must be allocated as a matter of priority to reducing taxes on labour. The beacons you set may be interesting, but your approach to the issue will have to be consistent with the environmental concerns that are of concern to the Minister of Energy. The debate is only at the beginning. I take note that you are open to discussion and will participate actively. Thank you in advance.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic584x.u4	Minister, between October 2014 and October 2016, the price of Bitcoin rose from 255 euros to 582 euros. The exchange volumes are constantly increasing and we can imagine that the enthusiasm for this virtual currency is not alien to the controls that are made on cash by the various professionals in the sector. This cryptocurrency becomes the digital equivalent of cash, but there is no longer a need for suitcase carriers, one click is enough to inject cash in complete discretion from one side to the other of the globe. Bitcoin is no longer the tool of the future for fraud or crime. Indeed, a new virtual currency has just appeared, the Monero. Transactions via this new cryptocurrency are untraceable. The value of the Monero has increased tenfold since its creation in 2014 and its capitalisation has increased to more than 130 million euros. The purchase of the Monero is made by payment in Bitcoins, which further complicates the traceability of the underlying transactions. Other cryptocurrencies are on the market. The report of the Financial Information Processing Unit (ICTIF) states that "if the virtual currency can be used to circulate funds freely, the use of traditional channels will always have to take place to carry out the operations of the first stage (injection) and the third stage (integration). This statement should be quickly questioned, as virtual payment is growing exponentially in all sectors of activity. Indeed, you can already pay with Bitcoins to buy the following products: furniture, jewelry, electronic devices, theater tickets, clothes, shoes, courses, vehicles, animals, gifts, in short, all that is possible to buy. NGOs also accept donations in Bitcoin. And Daesh, too. As a result, funds will soon not have to go out into the real world, as more and more players will accept virtual money from the outset. Any commercial transaction could thus escape all control, taxes and VAT. This is actually a definition of a parallel economy that is totally opaque. Minister, have you ever assessed this risk with your colleagues and considered ways of controlling this type of virtual operation that can be done in complete discretion, even from a smartphone?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic584x.u5	Mr Scourneau, in general - and as you have pointed out very well - there is an increasing use of new means of payment in the context of money laundering. This increase coincides with the generalisation of the use of currencies or electronic payment instruments in Belgium and the growth of online sales. In addition, service offerings have diversified in terms of payment solutions and investment media. Speculation is also encouraged by the high volatility of some virtual currencies, of which the most famous example is obviously Bitcoin. Unregulated virtual currencies also offer reduced transaction costs that contribute to their success. Some virtual currencies are characterised by the fact that they are convertible into real currencies and are not regulated by any central authority. In addition, intermediaries offer brokerage services related to the purchase or sale of virtual currencies without being approved by any authority. In some cases, they can offer their services in Belgium while being housed on platforms active from abroad. Launderers can also take advantage of price volatility to allow money transfers between two people, through speculative round-trip transactions. Little information is available on possible cases relating to the use of the virtual currency, since it has no counterpart in legal proceedings. It is clear, however, that virtual currencies are involved in the rise of dematerialized and non-intermediate money laundering techniques. The use of Bitcoin has become widespread on the platforms for the commercialization of narcotics and other illicit products present in the famous dark web. In the past, investigations by the US authorities have resulted in the closure of such platforms and the identification of their administrators. This was, for example, the case of the Silk road platform. The data recovered from these surveys contained information on transactions in Bitcoin which, among other things, enabled users to be identified across their borders and even here in Belgium. CTIF conducted a strategic analysis in 2014 about new payment methods, including Bitcoin. As a result, compared to neighbouring countries, the number of suspicious reports related to the use of Bitcoin has, for the time being, remained relatively limited. However, this new means of payment is becoming increasingly important in the financial system and the supervisory authorities will face technical and legal problems in the coming months and years in connection with this new means of payment. I would like to add one thing, in my personal capacity. I've already talked to the Governor of the National Bank several times. This is likely to continue. You may know, this weekend, in Limburg, the Limbu is going to be launched, a kind of alternative currency. We're going to look at this very closely. It's a good idea, but it needs to be monitored.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic584x.u6	Minister, thank you. I see you finally made the same observation as the one I'm denouncing. You measured the risk. I obviously measure all the difficulty already legal since we are really confronted with problems of localization, of locating these people who can with a simple click, from anywhere, operate anywhere in the world. I also think that we should, in a more general and more detailed way, reflect on all this crime that is developing on Internet networks and on everything that makes it possible to deal with organised crime with a simple click. In any case, I appreciate your answer and I hope that you will be able to pursue in a determined manner the tracking of this fraud, which is likely to be linked to technological developments but also to a problem that will only grow in the coming months and years.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic584x.u7	Mr Minister, finally, somewhere, the first question fits quite well into the philosophy of this second question since you have made the transition on what you have been through this weekend. My question is, indeed, about the economic phenomenon of the new use of local currency. Indeed, the use of complementary local currency is an economic phenomenon that has been growing quite impressively for years. There are nearly 5,000 initiatives around the world. In Belgium, too, there have been many local currencies for five years, such as the "wheats" in Grez-Doiceau – of which Mrs Sybille de Coster-Bauchau is present here as the burmese and promoter of this new currency – the "talent" in Louvain-La-Neuve or the "valueful" in Liège. In concrete terms, citizens are invited to exchange the current currency in the country for local currency in counters scattered throughout the municipality. The money is then kept in an account to serve as a guarantee. The complementary local currency must then be regarded as a kind of purchase voucher valid in a given territory. Supporters of the project believe that its introduction allows for support for local commerce, the maintenance of locally produced wealth or a contribution to a better distribution of such wealth. While the objectives of such initiatives may at first glance seem laudable, the introduction of a currency competing with the currency in force at national level raises a great deal of questions. One can wonder about security against counterfeiting (Articles 173 to 178 of the Criminal Code), the maintenance of the value of convertibility, compliance with VAT rules, black work, payment of remuneration in part or in all local currency (which is moreover prohibited by the Act of 12 April 1965 on the protection of workers' remuneration). In short, there are provisions everywhere in an eclectic way that suggest that when you start working with these local currencies, you are very often in a field of perfect illegality. Minister, what is your position with regard to the development of these complementary local currencies? Would they not favour an underground economy? Do they provide the same legal guarantees with regard to the problems raised above as official currencies?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic584x.u8	Mr President, my colleague, article 178a of the Criminal Code states: "Anyone who has issued a monetary sign intended to circulate in the public as a means of payment without having been authorised by the competent authority shall be punished by imprisonment from one month to one year and a fine of EUR 50 to EUR 10 000, or by one of those penalties only." The travaux préparatoires to this article, however, define the context of this article. I quote: "Of course, the issue of cheques, bills of exchange, payment cards or the opening of accounts with a view to making payments by means of cheques or orders of transfer, as well as the issue of tokens, vouchers or tickets whose use is limited to well-defined users such as the staff of a company, the population of a school, members of an association, and whose value is limited according to the price of goods and services which may be consumed by such users, do not fall within the scope of Article 178bis." It will therefore be necessary to judge on a case-by-case basis whether the local issuance of monetary signs is lawful or not. It should be noted that the establishment of a supplementary system of money in electronic form may be submitted to Book VII of the Code of Economic Law on Payment and Credit Services. In this case, prior approval from the National Bank may be required. With regard to the resemblance to banknotes, I would like to refer to the Act of 11 June 1889 relating to printed matter or forms having the appearance of banknotes or other fiduciary securities. Article 1 states: "The manufacture, sale, colportage and distribution of any printed matter or form obtained by any process which, by its external form, would present, together with bearer notes issued by the Public Treasury or with bank notes, notes and stamps of posts or telegraphs, shares, bonds, interest shares, dividend coupons or interest thereon, and generally with the fiduciary securities issued, in Belgium or abroad, by States, provinces or departments, municipalities or public institutions, private companies, companies or undertakings, a likeness such as to facilitate the acceptance of such printed matter or form in place of such values". Section 2 of the 1889 Act also provides for this and I quote: "Any violation of the preceding section shall be punished by imprisonment from eight days to three months and a fine of twenty-six francs to one thousand francs or by one of those penalties only." To be complete, I would point out that Article 128 of the Treaty of the European Union explicitly states that "the banknotes issued by the European Central Bank and the national central banks are the only ones legally valid in the Union. Professionals who would accept a local currency can under no circumstances refuse payment by means of euro banknotes.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic584x.u9	Mr President, thank you. It can be seen that this matter is very complex, although it is sometimes trivialised by the press. It would be wise to pay attention to this, because initiatives based on a good feeling are taken but go in every direction. In the end, they are in a systematic way contrary to the various provisions, whether they are criminal or linked to the circulation of money. In any event, it would be wise to be careful. You said, I believe, earlier, as an introductory point and even before I asked the question, that this subject was of concern to you with regard to the current situation of the weekend. I think that in view of the enthusiasm, which is spreading more and more, in terms of circular economy, local interest or environmental interest - all that is fashionable today - it would be good to recall the basic reflexes.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic584x.u10	Minister, the two questions have been put together, but they are two separate questions. I hope you will also answer both questions. You nod, so that's okay. The first question has to do with the unpaid board volunteer covered by the Voluntary Act. He doesn't get any compensation, unless sometimes he gets a fee. In principle, no specific sheet should be provided for this purpose. However, I am told that a sheet 281 is requested. For a lot of voluntary organisations who think they are covered by the Voluntary Act, this means an additional administrative burden. The voluntary law is a social law, but it often has fiscal and financial implications which are apparently not always interpreted in the same way. Do you know the problem? Is a tax sheet 281 requested? Is it necessary for such a sheet to be drawn up effectively? Is there a need for a change of law to create clarity? Or is a circular also possible? What do you think is the solution? Have you discussed this with the Minister for Social Affairs? Another problem in the context of voluntary legislation is cycling fees. I was happy to read that your party has also been paying attention again to volunteering and compensation for the volunteers. I've been preparing a bill on the voluntary allowance for a while. In this context, the bicycle fee is also used. When drafting the bill, we found that there are different bicycle fees. For example, there is the maximum in the voluntary law that was based on one of the parameters at the time, then there is also the bicycle fee applied by the FPS Finance and there is also the accepted maximum for employees. This causes confusion in the field because one does not always know which parameter to take into account. What is your opinion on this, Minister? Is an unambiguous bicycle fee necessary? Can you achieve this in a simple way and align the bicycle allowance for volunteers with that for employees?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic584x.u11	Mrs Becq, when a non-profit association reimburses the organisation's own costs to its volunteers, the non-profit organisation must not fill out or distribute the sheet 281. The non-profit association must then only submit a nomination list at the request of the administration, indicating the amounts repaid per transferee and the supporting documents. That is very clear on demand, when there would be demand for it. This has already been clearly communicated in response to a previous parliamentary question and there is also a circular. If you want, I can have that delivered to you. This position shall also apply to the unpaid driver-volunteer, where it falls within the scope of the voluntary scheme. This is quite obvious: whether or not a person can be considered a volunteer in the tax field depends on the actual circumstances, which are specific to the specific situation, and must therefore be assessed in that capacity. In my opinion, the regulation on cycling fees is not confusing or, in fact, not unclear. The three systems described by you do not deal with the same subject matter and cannot therefore be fully compared. I'll make the distinction between the three. Firstly, pursuant to Article 38 (1) of the Income Tax Code 1992, the mileage allowance granted by an employer to its employees for commuting by bicycle is exempted up to a maximum of EUR 0,145 per kilometre. The indexed amount for tax year 2018 is 23 euro cents per kilometre. However, the bicycle fee is a favour from the employer to the employee. The employer is therefore not obliged to grant them. The employer may also determine the amount of the bicycle fee freely, but of course take into account, as far as he is concerned as regards tax considerations, the amounts I have just mentioned. I'm getting to the second system. In accordance with the two royal decrees of 13 June 2010 granting a fee for the use of the bicycle to, on the one hand, the staff of the federal public office and, on the other hand, the staff of certain public services, the fee is set at 20 euro cents and 15 euro cents respectively per kilometre travelled. These rules fall within the competence of the Minister responsible for civil service matters. However, that scheme is in line with the exemption provided for in Article 38 of the Income Tax Code 1992, which we referred to in the first paragraph, because the compensation granted is below the maximum amount of the exemption. Now I come to a third part of the situation regarding the bicycle fee. Some fees do not give rise to taxation because they represent the reimbursement of costs incurred by purchasers in the context of any activity which may be referred to as leisure activities. The circular on volunteers, drawn up by my administration, updates and coordinates the guidelines relating to the non-taxable amounts of voluntary service fees. The amount of the fee is currently €0.20 per kilometre travelled. That bicycle fee is in principle not indexed. Since the voluntary circular is part of the reimbursement of costs specific to the voluntary organisation, whereas the exemption provided for in Article 38 is part of the employer's allowance for commuting by bicycle, an adjustment of the circular at this time is therefore not envisaged.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic584x.u12	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I'll start my reply with the last one you report. I can imagine that the confusion is due to the fact that there are also employees in the voluntary organisations who compare the refunds with the bicycle allowance they are entitled to. As far as I am concerned, it has also become clear from the examination of this matter that there are different parameters depending on the situation. That's not clear to everyone. I can understand the fact that there are some additional administrative burdens involved. I hear you referring to a circular. From your answer to my first question, I remember that a list of refunds should simply be kept. Today's procedure, in which the supporting documents are kept, is sufficient. At the time of the administration's request, such supporting documents may be supplied to the inspector. That way there will be no extra red tape. In the voluntary organisations, they are volunteers who take on a lot of tasks. That administration is sometimes too much. Sometimes they see it as if their voluntary efforts were not appreciated. I hope you understand that.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic584x.u13	That is why there is no obligation for that sheet 281.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic584x.u14	Mr President, Minister, through the Ministerial Decision of 18 August, the DAVO Evaluation Committee has been re-established. As far as I know, no initiative has been taken since then to convene that committee. I also didn't find any reports on the DAVO website. I haven't gotten an invitation to a meeting. I therefore have a number of practical questions. Is there a startup planned and if so, when? Why haven't there been any meetings? In what period is the start-up of this Evaluation Committee planned effectively?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic584x.u15	Mr President, Mrs Becq, the Evaluation Committee to which you refer met for the first time on 7 December 2016.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic584x.u16	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic584x.u17	I'll try to find out, but I'll give you my answer first. All members were invited to this meeting after their appointment or designation. That's the information I got. At this meeting, the key figures for the years 2010 to 2015 were reviewed, and partly for the year 2016. Three to four meetings per year will be organised. At the meeting on 7 December, it was also explained that it was virtually impossible to have an evaluation report published before the end of January. If you have not received an invitation, please provide your official contact details. We will then do what is necessary so that you will be invited next time.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic584x.u18	Minister, I did not intend to receive an individual invitation. I was really convinced that there hadn't been a meeting. I think it is important that the evaluation and follow-up are carried out. I'll transfer my data to you again.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic584x.u19	Mr President, Minister, I was already late last year asking you about the Federal Equity and Investment Corporation (SFPI), and in particular about investments for Brussels Airport. At that time, it was suggested that the SFPI should be consulted on all its activities, as a key player in financing and the economy in Belgium. This could not have been done for agenda reasons. That is how I would like to ask you today about a number of points that I consider relevant. It will be easier for me to approach them one by one. In the preamble, I recall that the description of the missions of the SFPI includes the responsibility to find a clear and responsible balance between the financial and societal aspects of the companies in which it invests. In terms of profitability, it sets out precise indicators in the investment charter: a clear corporate strategy (detail and credibility), the achievement of normal profitability, a short-, medium- and long-term dividend policy. In terms of societal added value, what is of particular interest to us in this public investment tool are employment-related aspects, social utility, compliance with legislation and regulations, ethical aspects (code of conduct), environmental aspects such as participation in environmental protection, human and personal rights aspects and consumer rights aspects. It is from these perspectives that we have done our analysis and written our questions. I will start with the question of investments in BNP Paribas. As you know, the Belgian state owns nearly 10% of BNP Paribas' capital for a stake of over €7 billion. This participation is the result of the rescue of Fortis organized by the federal state in September 2008, under the government of Yves Leterme. The Belgian state has become the first shareholder of the BNP Paribas Fortis Group, which is one of the largest international groups. Having said that, several observations show that the behaviour of this banking group raises questions in terms of good practices, social and environmental. Here are two recent examples. According to a report by the recently published Dutch NGO PAX for peace, BNP Paribas has invested just over $9 billion in the nuclear weapons sector between January 2013 and August 2016. The bank is a very bad European student in this field. In addition, the press reported that 28 BNP Paribas Fortis agencies will close in 2017 in Belgium and that 1,600 jobs could disappear in the next 12 months. Finally, in 2015, there was talk about the possibility for the Belgian State to withdraw from BNP Paribas. The transaction could bring about significant debt reduction for the state. At this stage, no formal decision has been taken on this disengagement. Finally, again in 2015, the federal state, under your leadership, asked Nomura and Leonardo business banks to make a strategic analysis of the Belgian state's main stakes in companies in order to optimize the Belgian state's shareholding strategy. The study concerned among others BNP Paribas but also Belfius, Ethias, Brussels Airport, Proximus, bpost and the National Lottery. All this leads me to ask you the following questions. What are the guidelines given by the SFPI to shareholders representing the Belgian State on the board of directors of BNP Paribas Fortis? Can you give us any recent concrete cases in which these shareholders have taken specific positions and thus influenced the course of decisions taken by BNP Paribas? I am thinking in particular of decisions concerning Belgium, such as agency closures and job losses. How do the SFPI and the Belgian directors of BNP Paribas intend to react to the information that the bank has invested heavily in nuclear weapons? What are the conclusions of Nomura and Leonardo's report on Belgian State participation in BNP and what are your medium- and long-term intentions in this regard?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic584x.u20	Mr Vanden Burre, the directors, not the shareholders, proposed by the SFPI, who act on a mission delegated on behalf of the Belgian State to the board of directors of BNP Paribas are independent. This is well described in all the agreements. However, there is regular consultation with these administrators. The SFPI has asked BNP Paribas about the amounts you are quoting. The bank could not confirm the $9 billion figure. On the other hand, it confirmed the very strict supervision applied within the group when it comes to financing the arms industry. As part of its Vision 2020 future plan, BNP Paribas intends to reduce certain activities and develop others, such as those related to cybersecurity. In total, BNP Paribas Fortis will see its workforce cut by 1,000 full-time equivalents over three years (about 2.5% per year), due to the natural attrition of its staff and voluntary departures only. This means that several agencies will be grouped together. But this would not lead to a dry dismissal. Finally, since the BNP Paribas Group is listed and the Belgian State owns a little more than 10% of its capital, information on the intentions of the Belgian State and/or the SFPI with regard to its participation cannot at all be communicated in order not to influence the stock exchange price.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic584x.u21	Minister, thank you for your answers, which are, indeed, relatively small. At this point, you or SFPI are not really responding. What we were interested in was whether the directors had spoken out at the time of the rather important or even serious decisions as to what was being done, particularly at the Belgian level, with regard to the repatriation of dividends, the closures of agencies. What we are interested in is how they behaved at that time. With regard to nuclear weapons and the rest, I take note of your answers. Nevertheless, your answers do not fully satisfy us. You will not, I suppose, be surprised because they have many shortcomings. The following question is related to SFPI's investments in Euronext. Since 2014, SFPI has held 4.5% of Euronext's capital, which amounts to just over EUR 60 million. Euronext is the main financial operator of the euro area with 1,300 issuers representing a market capitalisation of 2,600 billion euros. The company entered the stock exchange on May 20, 2014. Prior to this stock exchange introduction, a group of investors, including SFPI, and called reference shareholders, include, alongside SFPI, a number of entities from other countries such as ABN AMRO, BNP Paribas, BNP Paribas Fortis, Banco Espirito Santo, etc. This group is therefore a French-Belgo-hollando-Portuguese consortium. Reference shareholders are required to hold a three-year lock-up, i.e. they cannot divest their stake in Euronext until 19 June 2014 (due on 19 June 2017). The latest report of the SFPI states that Euronext's strategy was to make the company independent and strengthen its position as a financial centre in Western Europe. On 4 December 2015, Euronext Paris was ordered to pay a fine of EUR 5 million by the Autorité des Marchés Financiers (AMF). He was then accused of "high-frequency trading" and of using predictive algorithms for destabilizing purposes. Minister, what are the reasons why the SFPI invested in Euronext in 2014 and how does this investment fall within the criteria already described in the SFPI investment charter? How did the SFPI react to the fine imposed by the AMF? Is Euronext still trading at high frequency today?. Does the SFPI have representatives on the Management Board of Euronext? What does the SFPI intend to do about its participation in 2017 since it has the possibility to leave the consortium from June 19th?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic584x.u22	Mr Vanden Burre, I raised four questions. Your first question is investment. The Board of Directors of the SFPI considered it important to establish an effective stock market that allows companies that wish to use this market to finance themselves. A stock exchange is indeed a strategic asset for both financial operators and companies. The opportunity to enter Euronext has since generated dividends and there is a latent surplus value of several tens of millions of euros. It is also clear that the SFPI acted with respect for its profit. The second question concerns high-frequency trading, which in 2015 accounted for 26 % of the volumes handled in the cash trading business and 12 % of the derivatives business. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that this is the weight of high frequency trading volumes in the total volumes handled on the markets and not the share that these volumes represent in turnover. The update of these figures will be available with the publication of the 2016 reference document at the end of March-early April, but we do not anticipate any major changes in these proportions. The AMF fine of EUR 5 million was paid but Euronext appealed. In answer to your third question, I can say that the SFPI is part of a shareholder agreement that together holds more than a third of Euronext's shares and these shareholders have the right to propose three directors. In this case, one of the three directors is now a member of the Board of Directors of the SFPI. Directors, in the interest of the company, shall in particular ensure that markets remain accessible and efficient for as many companies as possible in all countries where Euronext is active. Finally, the final question, the SFPI is very satisfied with the return on its participation and is studying its position, knowing that Euronext is a listed company and that it is necessary to be very careful with potentially sensitive information.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic584x.u23	Thank you, Minister, I take note of your answers. I understand that this information is sensitive, but one could imagine having a channel to disclose such information, for example in camera, so that members of the committee can have access to it. However, it is a matter of public investment. Let me turn to the following question, which concerns foreign investment. I will list the various points on which we have questions. In India, there is a fund called the Tara IV Investment Fund. The Belgian State contributes EUR 0.33 million (29%). It is a societal impact investment fund in the areas of health, food, education and alternative energies. The report states that we consulted that the fund has identified two projects, one of which is Belgian, in which it wishes to invest. We're talking about an investment with a renowned Belgian company. That is what we are asking ourselves. In China, we have questions about the EUR 5.56 million Datang-SFPI Venture Capital Fund, 45% of China's venture capital investment fund, focusing mainly on SMEs. The SFPI report states that there are several particularly promising advanced technology projects in preparation, including Belgian projects. The next point relates to the Capital China Outbound Fund, where SFPI has €5.22 million (50%). It is a mirror fund, in collaboration with China Investment Coproration (CIC), China's largest sovereign fund. He entered the capital of Viadeo, which is undergoing restructuring. In principle, the mirror fund was to be invested in its entirety through four investments, two of which were related to Belgium. Also in China, there is the China-Belgium Direct Equity Investment Fund. This fund has invested in two Belgian companies: Weihai Golden Star and Suzhou Eden SIP. Other important means of investment remain for projects linked to Belgium. This is stated in the annual report. Finally, in Brazil we are talking about Performa Cleantech Investment Fund. The fund has invested in six projects. It is active in the areas of energy efficiency, treatment and management of effluents and solid waste. However, the SFPI report states that, following Brazil's poor economic situation, it is very likely that this Performa project will not make new short-term investments. Mr Minister, in view of all these cases I have just mentioned, what are the guarantees put in place by the SFPI to respect the ethical, environmental, social and human rights aspects when it comes to making investments abroad? Is there a grid? Or a selection board that would assess these criteria? What are the societal gains expected in the various projects I have just described? What returns are expected at the Belgian level? Regarding Tara IV Investment Fund, what are the two Belgian projects referred to in the report? Which well-known Belgian company is it? Regarding Datang-SFPI Venture Capital Fund, what are the projects in question? How many of them are carried out in connection with Belgium? With regard to Capital China Outbound Fund, what exactly are the investments in question? We are talking about two investments linked to Belgium. In addition, one of the shareholders, Viadeo (active in online recruitment) was placed in court on 28 November last by the Paris Commercial Court for a period of three months. At the end of February 2017, the company will be wound up. What impact will this liquidation have on the overall project? Can you give us details of the investments made in the China-Belgium Direct Equity Investment Fund project? Finally, what is the status of the Brazilian project, the Performa Cleantech Investment Fund? What is the status of this fund, given Brazil's difficult economic situation? Have any other investments been made recently?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic584x.u24	Mr Vanden Burre, I repeat the three countries to which you referred. First, China. There are three investment funds. First, the CBDEIF, China-Belgium Direct Equity Investment Fund, i.e. a private equity fund that focuses on medium-sized companies with a certain market position. Second, the DTC-SFPI Venture Capital Fund, a fund that focuses on start-ups. And then, thirdly, the China-Belgium Mirror Fund, which aims to invest in and towards Europe. The financial exposure of SFPI in China has been reduced to zero since the end of 2016. The €8.5 million investment in CBDEIF has already been recovered through dividends. Investments in the other two funds were also financed through dividends received. The current residual market value of SFPI's share of these three funds can be conservatively estimated at at at least EUR 60 million. So we can certainly talk about a financial success. The very high diplomatic value is an essential aspect of Belgian-Chinese investment funds. It is mainly CBDEIF that is the only state-to-state fund in China. This puts Belgium at a separate level in terms of international relations between the two countries. This particular relationship also created a privileged economic link between the two countries. For example, Geely Volvo, the direct airlines via Hainan Airlines, the IMEC SMICS relationship, the Belgian-Chinese incubator in Leuven-la-Neuve and the common technological development of the 5G standard between Datan Group and KUL. With regard to Brazil and Performa Cleantech Investment Fund, it is specifically stated in the fund's rules that companies in which the fund invests must comply with the rules of good corporate governance and that all investments made by the fund are subject to in-depth review. The Fund's regulations also provide that companies must comply with Brazilian social security and tax obligations, as well as with Brazilian environmental and worker protection standards. Given the difficulty of understanding Brazil's economic and political context, the Fund did not make any investments in 2016. The investment period was therefore extended by an additional year. This is expected to allow an additional € 22.5 million to be invested in three projects. Approximately BRL 17.5 million (Brazilian reals) will be reserved for the following in existing projects. In addition, the fund manager is working to select projects that have a strong resilience to the recessionary economic environment that Brazil has been facing since 2015. The manager focuses on projects related to urban logistics and the reduction of production and construction costs that offer higher growth prospects than in the country in general. Finally, with regard to Brazil's economic situation, since October 2016, economic forecasts have become more reliable and the first signals of normalization of the economic situation appear. With regard to India, the Tara IV fund started operations in 2015 and closed its financing in September 2016 with a capital of more than USD 60 million. SFPI contributes up to USD 11.7 million, representing almost 20 per cent of the capital. From a financial point of view, the investments made by the Tara Fund are difficult to assess at this stage as they have just been made, but several factors support the Indian economy and the prospects for gross value added growth of the Reserve Bank of India are encouraging. In the contract with representatives of the Tara IV fund, it was agreed that the fund would focus on companies whose portfolios offer opportunities both in terms of attractive financial returns and in terms of societal and/or environmental plans. The Tara Fund began this year with investments of up to USD 10 million in two companies, one of which is an institute of birth-related research and care, and the other is a company that manufactures radio-therapeutic equipment. Finally, the Belgian company to which SFPI refers is listed, but the information is, to date, still confidential. It is therefore not possible to give you the name.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic584x.u25	Minister, thank you for your detailed answer, which we will examine very carefully. I would also like to thank the staff of the SFPI or your firm who participated in the drafting of the report. This is a valuable work. You referred to the last report to be released at the end of March and I hope that we will be able to discuss the activities of the SFPI within the framework of our committee. Indeed, since 2009, it appears that there has been no hearing in Parliament on the specific activities of the SFPI. Finally, thank you very much for sending me the text of your replies.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic584x.u26	Mr Minister, after the Ubers, the Airbnbs and the hobbychefs, we now also have peer-to-peer models for credit agreements, online credit options, offers of online loans without the intervention of a bank or a financial institution. A Brussels-Waal fintech start-up has managed to bypass the strict Belgian legislation via a smart detour. As the first company, it was allowed to offer loans on the Belgian market and thus compete with the Belgian banks, without the strict control to which our financial institutions are subject. The peer-to-peer model works as follows: Suppose someone wants to borrow a certain amount of money online. He or she is willing to pay 10% interest for this and submit an online credit application to a specialized site. It cuts its loan into, for example, ten pieces, which are purchased by ten investors, so that the loss can be reduced in the event of default. The interest paid goes to the investors. Only a small part of the amount borrowed, at most a single percentage, flows into the market site in the form of commission, which usually screens the borrowers itself, prepares the paperwork and collects the periodic payments. The Brussels-Waal start-up also works in this way, with the difference that investing in loans to other individuals is not direct, but indirectly, and that through so-called notes, financial instruments are similar to repackaged bonds. Kind of like CDOs, which we've learned we shouldn't go that way. Through its new online platform, this start-up aims to give ordinary people with savings access to the wide market of consumer loans, ranging from car loans, to personal loans to renovation credits. Private investors are promised attractive returns, up to 5.79 % gross. As an investor one can choose between four risk classes: the higher the return, the higher the risk. I'm gonna ask you a few questions about that. Over the last few years, we have drawn up a lot of financial and control regulations in the wake of the financial crises we have experienced. We have reformed and strengthened the entire supervisory and control system for financial transactions. I would therefore like to ask a number of questions because of concern. Mr Minister, can you clarify whether the Belgian legislation will be amended in the long term to allow for the peer-to-peer model? What adjustments will you make? If not, why not? Despite the smart detour to circumvent the strict Belgian legislation, the FSMA will have to pay due attention to this. Have you already commissioned the FSMA to monitor this or has the FSMA itself carried out the necessary research? Do they do so themselves or should they be commissioned to do so? What are the FSMA's possible conclusions? On the one hand, we must welcome such initiatives. We are not opposed to new initiatives. All initiatives need to be looked at. On the other hand, we must ensure that individuals receive the necessary information and are aware of the risks of the financial products they sign up to. That is also why we have reformed and strengthened in the past those different control and supervision regulations on financial transactions. Will you investigate in the future how such initiatives will have to respect MiFID rules and how the FSMA will be able to effectively monitor them?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic584x.u27	In the current state of the regulation, firms granting professional loans to natural persons must obtain a licence from the FSMA as a lender and are also subject to the supervision of the FSMA. In order to obtain that authorisation, the creditor should primarily have a minimum capital, his leaders, his directors, certain conditions of reliability and expertise, and have an appropriate organisation. These are all matters for the FSMA to monitor. In carrying out their activities, creditors must comply with the provisions of Book VII of the Economic Law Code on lending or credit agreements. Furthermore, the fact that individuals request credit from visitors to an Internet platform is equivalent to a call on the saver's public to receive repayable funds. However, in the current state of Belgian regulation, natural persons are not allowed to carry out such activities effectively. Those activities are reserved for credit institutions and legal entities which carry out transactions in compliance with prospectus laws and the laws governing the exercise of banking activities. In addition, a creditor who finances his business by offering investment instruments to the public will have to draw up a prospectus that will have to be approved by the FSMA. Finally, even without offering to the public, he will have to strictly respect the advertising rules in force. However, the obligation to draw up a prospectus will not apply if certain thresholds are reached, for example if the amount raised is less than EUR 100 000. MiFID rules apply only to the provision of investment services. The fact that a company offers its own financial instruments to the public to finance its own activities is not an investment service. In that case, therefore, the MiFID rules will logically not apply. It goes without saying that the FSMA will continue to monitor this type of lending. Moreover, I will continue to insist that this is done strictly. At this stage, it is not envisaged to amend the rules to facilitate peer-to-peer lending, given the difficulties resulting from them in protecting privacy and the risk of over-indebtedness. Moreover, it should be noted that the loans thus contracted do not stiffen the centre of credit and cannot therefore be taken into account in the granting of any subsequent loans. A balance must therefore be struck between financial innovation and consumer protection, not least against itself.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic584x.u28	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I welcome the answer you have given. I am also pleased that you are also committed to protecting consumers and financial transactions as they are currently envisaged, and that we will have to act through authorised organisations, instruments and transactions. I also hope that new initiatives will be effectively controlled by the appropriate control and monitoring bodies.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic584x.u29	Minister, last December, I raised your awareness in plenary about the phenomenon of some restorers equipping themselves with a smart cash before registering with the FPS Finances by acquiring a VAT Signing card, but never connecting the device to the network, in order to make the tool inoperative, hoping to pass through filters installed by the anti-fraud services. You said that the inspections – with just over 3,000 checks, more than 2,000 of which were found to be in breach of the regulations – were going well and that the methods of targeting the controls were bearing fruit. I would therefore like to know more about these methods used to identify this very specific type of fraud attempt, as well as the proportion of frauds found in the white box as a whole. On the other hand, another phenomenon is quite boring for all the restaurateurs who play the game. I also told you about it in December. These are calls from certain federations representing the sector not to be controlled, disseminated in the form of standard letters to be opposed to the SPF Finance controllers and pointing out the illegality of the control of white boxes - whereas their recourse to the Council of State is in no way suspensive. You explained to me that, in principle, this body's response was expected in February. I would therefore like to ask you whether you have heard from us in this regard. Minister, what is the usual follow-up to the submission of such a letter to inspectors? On the other hand, what steps have you taken to explain to the restaurateurs thus misled that they could not, of course, avoid controls, but also to the federations so that they could act a little more responsibly? It is urgent to intervene, both for the sake of the restaurateurs and for the sake of the general interest. It's really time, Minister! That's why I'd like to hear from you about this.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic584x.u30	Mr President, dear colleague, on a proactive basis, on 4 July my administration indicated on its website dedicated to the cash register system that it would carry out checks in the horeca sector in order to verify compliance with the relevant legal provisions. These actions, which were carried out in the second quarter of 2016, will continue in 2017. You will understand that under professional secrecy legislation, my administration cannot disclose its methods of targeting controls. As foreseen in the charter between the government and the horeca sector, the tax administration has given priority to the control of establishments which exceed the famous threshold of 25 000 euros in catering and/or catering service in 2015 and which did not have an active SCE as of 1 July 2016. A total of 3,508 institutions were inspected and 70% of them found to be in violation, thereby strengthening our method of selecting files. Other establishments with an SCE have not yet been checked. My administration has no monthly figures. The new legal provisions applicable from 1 July 2016 provide that any undertaking which provides catering and restaurant services, excluding the supply of beverages, for an annual amount exceeding EUR 25 000, must not only put into service an approved cash register system, but also systematically issue a ticket from this cash register system. As a result of these checks, my administration has criminalized companies that did not comply with these new legal provisions, either because they did not have an approved cash register system or because they did not connect the approved apparatus to the network and therefore did not issue tickets from this cash system. Most of the infringement companies actually contested the fines via a standard letter. In the very near future, my administration will give instructions to the competent departments for the uniform treatment of these disputes. I draw attention here to the fact that the various appeals lodged with the Council of State by the Horeca federations against this legislation are not suspensive. In addition, supervisory officials have a related competence and can therefore only impose a fine when they find that a legal provision which is not suspended has not been complied with. As to the alleged illegality of the checks carried out, it is recalled that the VAT legislation provides, on the one hand, that any person who carries out an economic activity must grant, at any time and without prior warning, free access to the premises in which he carries out his activity to the agents responsible for VAT control, in order to enable them to examine all books and documents, and, on the other hand, that every person is obliged to communicate, without undue displacement and without undue delay, to any requisition by the administration, the books, invoices and other documents which he must keep. The proposal made by the Belgian Restaurants Association concerns the deduction of restaurant fees aimed at stimulating the horeca sector. My administration has been entrusted with the task of reviewing these proposals. That will, of course, be done. Finally, with regard to the technical aspect of the SCE, the reference to the RS-232 link appears to some to be unreliable. However, this connection, even if it does not come from the latest technology, is well known for its stability. At the time, in 2010, it was the only possibility to link an electronic caisse to another device, called FDM. This is not the fastest connection, but my administration does not receive complaints about it. In the medium term, the administration is considering updating the SCE technology.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic584x.u31	Minister, thank you for this very comprehensive answer. The restaurateurs who play the game and respect the law will be happy to learn that you have decided to step up the controls, that fines will be collected for those who do not comply with the law. I also heard that we checked not only the existence of a cash register but also their connections. All this goes in the right direction and I thank you for being so vigilant.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic584x.u32	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Calomne's 16380 lapses as he is not present. Questions No 16387 by Mrs Jadin and No 16398 by Mrs Pas are postponed. Question No 16435 by Mr Top is postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic584x.u33	Mr Minister, I happen to have another question about the DAVO this week, but now more about the offices themselves, the practical operation. I have been told that there are changes on the way, in particular all DAVO offices that are not located in a provincial capital would be closed down in the long term. Each province would still have one infocenter left. In the meantime, staff would have already been asked to specify the remaining information centre from which they would like to continue working. That had to happen by the end of January. Also, telephone accessibility would change, in the sense that a first-line call centre will be set up that will receive all messages and, if necessary, forward them. I would like to check to what extent my information is correct, Minister. Is it true that there will soon be only one DAVO office per province? Which offices should close and at what time? What's the background to this lockdown operation? Will the Veurne contact point be closed in due course, by analogy with the Ypres contact point? If so, is there any timing for the closure yet? Can you confirm that accessibility will also change, and if so, in what way? Will people be able to go to a DAVO office with their pieces in person? Is the proper functioning of the service not compromised by the announced closure?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic584x.u34	Mrs Lahaye-Battheu, first a little general context in the specific DAVO environment, if I may call it that. The general administration of collection and recovery evolves towards a process-oriented organisation. This obviously affects the way in which employees are employed and the way in which they are employed. The employees specialize more and more in carrying out specific tasks. For the good and smooth execution of these employees are also preferably put together. This also applies to interaction with the citizen. As far as DAVO is concerned, this includes the receipt of creditors, the compilation of the file, its processing in the applications and the granting of advances. As of 1 September 2017, these tasks will be carried out by employees of the information centres. There will be information centres in Brussels, Antwerp, Charleroi, Liège, Ghent, Bruges, Hasselt, Leuven, Bergen, Namur and Marche-en-Famenne. For the services of DAVO, this means that citizens will be able to go to each of these places for a face-to-face conversation with a view to launching a DAVO file. All further communication will be done through the infocenter. There will indeed be fewer contact points, but there will always be someone present to talk to the citizen in DAVO-materials with knowledge. As the administration is aware of the greater distances that the creditor will have to travel, it has developed web forms for both the application for intervention and the extension of the payment of advances. These web forms are user-friendly and accessible via the website of the DAVO or that of the FPS Finance in general. The applicant can fill out the web form himself or he can be helped by, for example, the OCMW. As regards the recovery of maintenance payments or advances, nothing changes in the short term. In the medium term, the aim is to have all types of debt, including DAVO debts, recovered by multivalent recovery teams of the FPS Finance.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic584x.u35	Thank you, Minister, for the clear answer, from which I learn that from 1 September the operation of the DAVO will be different, with one centre per province, in the provincial capital. I understand the reason, but I wonder whether it will be feasible for the creditor, often someone in a weak situation, to work in this way. I will look at the answer a little later and perhaps come back to it later. I see a number of practical problems. Last week, I spoke to you about the bulk that the DAVO must have before we can get to work on the dossier. I think it's hard to pass them over the Internet. After all, one always needs the original with the stamp on it. Those are questions I'm still asking myself. I assume, however, that we will discuss this further.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic584x.u36	Mr President, Minister, I would like to take this opportunity to raise the issue of value added tax and corporation tax, also because this weekend, a regular Saturday, there were statements by important political spokesmen. I have the following obvious questions. What's the status? What time does the government intend to take a decision on this matter? Without being naive, I hope I can get an answer to that. Perhaps you can already tell us what official advice has already been requested on corporate tax and value added tax? This question has gained relevance because it has been found that the Court of Auditors has knowledge of an opinion from the FPS Finance on the proposals that have circulated around the added value tax. This has been demonstrated by an opinion of the Court of Auditors on a bill that we have tabled, which articulates the CD&V proposal. Things seem to be being studied and quantified. I do not think it would be illogical to ask at this stage.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic584x.u37	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic584x.u38	Mr Calvo and Mr President, the question of whether there is any movement in the dossier must be put to the Prime Minister. I know this sounds like it's a flight of responsibility. It's not that. You all know how difficult this is. All the hard things can be solved, too. I certainly do not want to be the one who, through statements, prevents good compromise on the three dossiers on the table. I would also like to take advantage of the opportunity you have given me, Mr Calvo, to make the point about a statement of my own. As far as corporate tax is concerned, I did not say that by the end of February is a deadline, but that if we want to do something in 2017, it will be a deadline by the end of February, because the first advance payments will be made in March. For the rest, I would like to honour the commitments made within the government, namely that the dossier with technical assistance from us, which is certainly on the Prime Minister's desk, that he writes the direction, that he also has control. I note that other ministers are also doing this, and I will at least respect this and continue to respect it until we have an agreement.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic584x.u39	I should therefore also like to ask the Prime Minister the questions on opinions. Okay. I will ask the question and add the report so that he does not refer me back to you. That has already happened to me.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic584x.u40	Mr President, Minister, in October 2016, the European Commission proposed to relaunch the common consolidated corporate tax base. This new version of the CCCTB should be implemented in two stages: first, the common base and, second, consolidation. It should be mandatory for the largest groups within the European Union. This new version of the CCCTB should also provide a strong incentive for investment in research and development, given the importance of these investments for growth and employment. A super deduction is therefore provided. In addition, the bill on the introduction of an innovation income deduction, which you argued for, in place of the patent income deduction, was passed last week in plenary session. In this context, I said that this project is in the right direction because it is a matter of ensuring a certain continuity, with the strategic will to foster the dynamics of innovation and research and development. I then intervened to draw your attention to three elements, including the need for legal certainty regarding this deduction. Mr Minister, can the new Belgian innovation scheme continue to be applied alongside the new super-deduction under the European Commission's initiative? Are we struggling to find ourselves in a situation where three legal regimes are superimposed, at the risk of creating disparities and a lack of legal certainty? I am thinking here of the old regime for patent revenues until 30 June 2021, the new regime for innovation in line with the OECD recommendations we have just voted on and the super-deduction, following the initiative of the European Commission. What about this risk of legal disparity and uncertainty?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic584x.u41	Mr President, Mr Dispa, your question is based on a rather hypothetical situation, in which the proposal for a Council Directive drawn up by the European Commission on a common consolidated corporate tax base would be adopted in the short term, unchanged and with a very short transposition period. These are three important elements. At the moment, we are not in this situation at all and it is clear that, in the interests of the country, businesses and employment, we must take measures and decisions that are necessary at this very moment. For example - you referred to it yourself - the bill containing the new tax deduction for innovation income and recently passed in the House.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic584x.u42	Minister, thank you. I agree with your conclusion that we must effectively manage the immediate situation. And that was the meaning of the piece of legislation that we voted for last week. That being said, I really hope that the European initiative is not, in your mind, postponed to the Greek calends, because you are suggesting that this is not going to happen and that we have time to see it coming. In this case, I find that this initiative has the merit of being encouraged. I invite you, as far as I am concerned, to try to support this initiative so that it can be implemented as quickly as possible and, at that time, resolve any problems of legal disparity that may arise. So let us not wait until we see what happens, but let us try to be firmly committed to the adoption of this European directive which, I think, would do the European Union and the companies concerned good.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic584x.u43	Mr President, Minister, on 23 January last, the Belgian General Union of Cleaning (UGBN), which I did not know but discovered, issued a statement denouncing the terms of a cleaning contract recently concluded by the SPF Finances. Indeed, according to the UGBN, these conditions are "well below normal market prices, and impossible to achieve with labour at current wages and conditions". It states that the contract was awarded at an average hourly price of EUR 16.91 whereas the hourly wage of an ordinary cleaner reached at least EUR 21 including social contributions, but excluding equipment and supervision costs. By including these last two variables, the wage then approaches 25 euros per hour. This obviously raises a question. There is concern about possible social dumping. The conditions laid down in the specifications of this public contract are unattainable for normal employers, who use workers paid at a decent wage and pay normal social contributions. Minister, do you confirm that a cleaning contract was recently awarded by the FPS Finance to the terms and conditions I have just stated? What were the benefits covered? To what total amount has it been allocated? How long does it last? Can you tell me what hourly price is provided for in this contract for cleaning services? Can you tell me what social clauses, if any, were included in the specifications? Do you have any guarantees that the successful tenderer will not resort to social dumping and that the workers concerned will receive a fair wage, including social security contributions? What monitoring will be carried out? Is this contract easily terminated by FPS Finance if it is purchased?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic584x.u44	Mr Gilkinet, the market which seems to be targeted by the Belgian General Union of Cleaning included one lot relating to daily and periodic cleaning services and another to the cleaning of the windows. The services covered include services to be provided each working day, biweekly services, weekly services, bimonthly and monthly services, six times a year at two-month intervals, three-month intervals of quarterly services, two-yearly services (six-month intervals), and annual services to be provided. The annual amount of this contract is EUR 729,000 (rounded) and the duration of the contract is four years. The hourly cost of this contract is €21.12 VATC for 34,500 hours. My administration systematically integrates into its special specifications the need for the bidder to comply with the eight core conventions of the International Labour Organization contained in the circular on the integration of development within the framework of public contracts awarded by the federal authority. With a view to combating social fraud, my services have adopted the following measures: firstly, the special specifications require each tenderer's commitment to comply with labour law and social security legislation. Second, the award criterion is framed by a range of hours for the performance of the benefits claimed. A minimum and maximum number of hours are fixed annually and cannot be derogated from at least or at most. The purpose of this range is to prevent certain bidders from breaking prices without being able to perform the services requested. I am therefore surprised that the UGBN claims that my services accept the lowest price regardless of its feasibility. Thirdly, concrete measures have been implemented in the execution of contracts. I quote six: the communication of employment contracts and the identity of the provider staff; the communication of the Dimona or Limosa declaration of each member of the staff to ensure that everyone is in good standing at the level of social legislation and to prevent the company from using other workers from other companies to perform benefits; the communication of the type of employment contract linking the staff to the contractor; the communication of the work permit; the systematic recording of the presence by the use of a grid to be completed by asking for the name, first name, time of entry and exit and the name of the company employing them; a monitoring of the benefits. As I have just indicated, my services are ensuring that measures to combat tax fraud are implemented. A monitoring of benefits is thus carried out by the latter on the basis of a sample. With regard to the termination facility, my services provide that each party can systematically terminate the contract at the end of the first, second or third year.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic584x.u45	Minister, thank you for that specific answer. However, I note a contradiction between this one and the communiqué of the Belgian General Union of Cleaning concerning the average hourly price decided in the context of this public procurement. There is no doubt that further dialogue between the FPS Finance and this organization will be necessary to clarify this aspect. In general, I believe that public authorities should set an example in terms of public procurement. In this respect, breaking prices is not a good example, because it encourages companies to resort to social dumping. In public procurement contracts, it is necessary to go further than the application of the minimum rules and to try to favour employers who play the game properly and who grant sufficient wages and supervision to their workers. Government is a donor that influences the economy and employment. The FPS Finances, in particular, must be aware of this. I will return to that in the light of the dialogue that I will be able to establish with the representatives of the cleaning sector.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic584x.u46	Mr Minister, the Court of Auditors has just published a very interesting report which highlights serious shortcomings in the implementation of the principles of joint and several liability and subsidiary liability in the sectors, which the chairman of the committee has just mentioned, particularly sensitive to fraud. As a reminder, the principle is as follows. In these three sectors (construction, meat, caretakership), if Company A relies on Company B for work that has tax debts, Company A must make deductions from invoices (15% of invoices must be paid to the SPF to clear the debts of Company B; the balance of invoices is paid directly to Company B). In the absence of the correct payment of these deductions, Company A is jointly and severally liable for the tax debts of Company B; this is joint and several liability. The FPS Finance can therefore pursue Company A, for example if Company B has fainted in nature. To prevent the use of successive subcontractors from escaping joint and several liability (including the use of fictitious subcontractors), subsidiary liability (or chain joint and several liability) was introduced in 2012. In short, if a company A appeals to a company B that does not have a tax debt and that company B appeals to a subcontractor C that has tax debts, the company A can be held jointly and severally liable for the tax debts of subcontractor C. The principle also applies to social debts. The explanatory memorandum of the 2012 Programme Law was very clear about the purpose of the scheme: to combat fraudulent practices by labour providers. The main problems revealed during the audit are that: the FPS Finances does not control the obligation to hold invoices (with exceptions); the FPS Finances hardly implements joint and several liability (only the centre of Namur-Luxembourg does so on a relatively regular basis); the FPS Finances has never implemented subsidiary (chain) joint and several liability. This lack of control and enforcement of joint and several liability means that companies that fail to fulfil their tax obligations may never be punished and thus prevent fair competition. On reading the report, it appears that this lack of control stems from the fact that in the FPS Finances, there is no agreement between the general tax administration and the general administration Collection and Recovery to know by whom and how the control of the withholding obligation should be carried out. However, it is necessary to monitor the obligation of restraint in order to be able, where appropriate, to implement joint and several liability and subsidiary joint and several liability. Mr Minister, have you read this report from the Court of Auditors? Do you share the conclusions? What are you going to do to improve the situation? What is the total annual tax debt of companies that have been subject to ISOC for the past five years? Since 2012, how many times has the principle of joint or subsidiary liability been implemented by the Finance FPS? What amount of tax could it have been recovered through this? What is preventing FPS Finance from being more effective in this area? Do you confirm that this inefficiency is the result of a difficulty of internal communication and coordination between AG Taxation and AG Perception and Recovery? Do you intend to resolve this short-term coordination difficulty either directly or by entrusting a special mission to the President of the FPS Finance? How, moreover, is the exchange of information with the Social Security FPS for the social debt aspect? What is being implemented to improve it? How did you respond to this audit of the Court of Auditors? How long do you intend to implement the Court's recommendations? Who is in charge of this follow-up?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic584x.u47	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, like me, my administration has taken note of the Court of Auditors' audit report on the implementation of the legal system of withholding taxes and the joint and several liability of the SPF Finances in the fight against fraud in the construction, meat and guarding sectors. The Court of Auditors' assessment is realistic and my administration is aware of the improvements needed to make this system more effective and efficient. As for the total annual amount of corporate tax debts submitted to ISOC for 5 years, it is not possible for my administration to provide you with the requested data within the time limit. The principle of joint or subsidiary liability is not often implemented. Since 2010, joint and several liability has been exercised less than 20 times and has only recovered less than 200,000 euros. The main obstacle is the lack of access to relevant information. The information is included in several data banks without any link between them. Their use for effective control requires a cross-checking of all these data. The ineffectiveness of the mechanism is not particularly due to a lack of communication or coordination between the general administration of taxation and the general administration of collection and recovery, but rather to a lack of effective tools, as I have just explained. Contacts have been made with the SPF Social Security – they are still in progress – to move towards more effective control by unifying the work process since we operate under the same legislation. The reflection is moving towards a unified withholding obligation with the SPF Social Security to be able to supplement our information from the VAT returns with the information held by the SPF on contractors with staff who are active in the sectors concerned. My administration has confirmed the statement made by the Court of Auditors and is largely in agreement with its recommendations. By the end of 2017, the Commission would like to implement new developments in IT applications to make the retention mechanism more efficient and effective and has informed the Court of Auditors accordingly. The first is to develop a structured communication generation system and to add it to the content of the certificate in case of a positive response for the retention obligation; secondly, to develop an interface allowing access to the history of the consultation of the retention obligation database, on the basis of a number of the Banque-Carrefour des Entreprises; thirdly, to list the numbers of the Banque-Carrefour des Entreprises for which the database replied "does not form part of a sector concerned"; fourthly, if there is agreement with the SPF Social Security, to develop a common application with a synchronisation of business rules, in particular, the basis of the NACEBEL Codes. Fifth and final point, to undertake a joint communication action by our general administrations to the representatives of the figures professionals in order to remind companies of their obligations and risks in the event of non-compliance with these obligations.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic584x.u48	Minister, thank you for your answer. I am surprised that you have not been more precise in your reply to the Court of Auditors on this report. This report is quite remarkable. I note that you are announcing a series of shares by the end of 2017. It's worth it. You gave me the figure of 200,000 euros recovered. You couldn't quote me the stock of debts. In the meantime, I found it in the Court of Auditors' report, in a footnote, on page 14. This amounts to EUR 195 million in tax debts in the three sectors concerned. I think it is really worth it, at the level of the FPS Finances, to be agitated to be much more effective in recovering these tax debts and it is worth it for the minister that you are giving an even more proactive impulse than the one you have just expressed here. It is easily recovered money that is simply due to the Treasury. You know we have a big recovery problem here in Belgium. The Court of Auditors has done an audit analysis work that is very useful with recommendations that I encourage you to implement regularly because 200 000 euros recovered from 195 million tax debts is a bit ridiculous at this stage. I hope that by 2019, we'll see the difference.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic584x.u49	Mr. President, this is a neverending story. Mr. Minister, it seems, based on your answers to parliamentary questions and also based on rulings granted by the Anticipated Rulings Service, that the discretionary trust system allows taxpayers to escape the Cayman tax. Various private banks, such as the Ghent-based Société Générale Private Banking, are actively soliciting customers who have money to invest – and are therefore probably rich – and offering them, their website, international financial and heritage engineering solutions, such as the discretionary trust – including a well-known tax haven in Jersey. Minister, do you confirm this exception to the Cayman tax for discretionary trusts? What justifies such a distinction in view of the stated objectives of the Cayman Tax? In other words, interest generated in tax havens should be subject to normal taxation in Belgium. Have tax services observed an increase in the use of discretionary trusts as a result of the introduction of the Cayman tax? Can the loss of profits for public finances, as a result of the absence of these revenues, be estimated? If so, how high is it? When and how do you intend to put an end to this exceptional regime, which I believe is not justified?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic584x.u50	Mr Gilkinet, you seem to be familiar with the world of trusts and discretionary trustees. Since there are many kinds of trusts and the concept of discretionary trustee is not clearly defined, it is impossible to provide you with a clear and correct answer from a legal point of view. I therefore invite you to introduce me and to clarify the case you are approaching so that I can have it examined by my administration. My administration as well as the collaborators of my strategic cell are following the evolution of the Cayman tax very closely. If, on the basis of their experience, research and contacts, it turns out that the Cayman tax would have to be adapted, I will not fail to table a bill with the government as soon as possible to remedy this situation. We have already done so in the past through the programme law of 26 December 2015 and we will do so again if necessary. AGFisc does not have data on a possible fluctuation in the number of discretionary trustees following the introduction of the Cayman tax and there is no specific declaration for this tax to obtain clear and accurate data. The revenue in question is based, among other things, on taxes on natural persons and the tax on movable property.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic584x.u51	Minister, to respond at the beginning of your speech, I would say that it is not necessary to have been a poacher to be a good gamekeeper. If that can reassure you, I have never practiced the discretionary trust. As Members of Parliament, we are particularly well inspected by the FPS Finances. This is very good and should be the case for all public agents. Following the debate we had with the Court of Auditors during the analysis of the 2017 budget, the difficulty is that today we do not know how to assess the revenue effects of the Cayman tax or the loopholes since it is not separately accounted for. In terms of public accounting and the ability to assess tax policies, this is something that needs to be changed. In addition, I regularly worry about the disproportionate power of the Anticipated Rulings Service, which, through rulings, allows taxpayers to escape the government's fiscal will by considering that revenues generated by a discretionary trust should not be taxed under the Cayman tax. Since this case has been reported to you, I think that you are much better placed than I am to ask your administration and your strategic unit to analyse a possible increase in the use of this type of tax engineering tool and to present us very quickly, within the framework of a programme law or a specific law, with a text that would make it possible to close this door of tax evasion. You will then be able to count on our support, as every time you present effective texts in the fight against financial crime.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-02-08-54-commissie-ic584x.u52	Thank you, Minister, for having wanted to answer our questions for a few hours, despite the fall.
