ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-14-54-commissie-ic688x.u1	Minister, according to the latest figures published by La Dernière Heure, almost one in four public servants no longer travels to the office every day to perform their professional duties. Indeed, according to a call for testimonials published on La Libre's website on May 19, the readers specify that telework brings them many very concrete advantages. It helps to avoid endless journeys during peak hours, and then to better reconcile their professional and private lives. According to Caroline Diard, professor at the École de management de Normandie: "On the one hand, telework can prevent burn-out situations, if it allows workers to leave their daily lives, their workplace and ultimately protect them. But, on the other hand, there is also a risk, because the burn-out is linked to the worker's inability to quit. However, we are in a connected economy. Everyone has a smartphone and a laptop. And we tend to read his e-mails and messages, including his personal time. The world has changed. This can be accentuated by telework. For having made observations on the ground, I have noticed that, even if the company provided hours for workers who perform certain tasks at home, they may not comply with these schedules and respond to any solicitation early in the morning, evening and weekend." Minister, could you share your views on telework as a solution to burn-out? Could this issue be or is it already at the origin of concrete actions, projects or new initiatives? Could you provide an overview of federal public servants working in telework by CPS and/or administration? What awareness-raising measures have been put in place to prevent burnout for federal public servants? What are the financial resources allocated for this purpose?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-14-54-commissie-ic688x.u2	Mr Kir, this subject has been discussed many times. Nevertheless, I repeat that I have always encouraged the work, regardless of where or when it is carried out. Over the past several years, through different networks, the Strategy and Support SPF has promoted the well-being of employees and provided sufficient flexibility and tailor-made work opportunities for both workers and the organization. Steps have been taken to adapt the telework regime and the work in satellite offices when necessary, in accordance with the Royal Decree of 9 March 2017 amending various provisions on flexible work in the public sector. We aim for the most simplicity, flexibility and standardization possible when setting up in the various institutions. This is in line with the objective of achieving more work-life balance. The maximum limit for telework has been changed and is now being considered on an annual basis, but maintaining the principle that the employee cannot exceed 3/5th of his/her working regime. The aim is to provide more flexibility. The ceiling has been set at 3/5th of benefits on an annual basis for telework. Telework and satellite office work together can never be equivalent to full-time employment. The determination of a ceiling tends to prevent staff members from losing contact with the workplace and colleagues. This provides more flexibility, but alienation should be avoided. For the details of the measures taken, and in reply to your third question, I refer you to the answers to the following parliamentary questions: oral question No 8214 by Mr Calomne of 1 March 2016 and written questions No 800 by Mr Alain Top and No 973 by Mr Jean-Marc Nollet of 30 November 2016. With respect to the evolution of federal public servants admitted to telework, I refer you to the answer to Mr. Franky Demon's written question No. 1073, in which an evolving picture has been in place since 2009. I'll give you the picture, but I'm not going to read it.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-14-54-commissie-ic688x.u3	Minister, thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-14-54-commissie-ic688x.u4	Mr. President, Minister, according to a recent press article, the thermometer exceeded 30 degrees on May 29. With such temperatures, workers and employees can be prevented from performing certain tasks under acceptable conditions. In the event of too high a temperature, the Belgian law obliges the employer to take certain measures designed to reduce the disadvantages associated with excess heat in the workplace. For example, the employer will have to take specific measures when the temperature exceeds 29 degrees for light physical work load, 26 degrees for medium physical work load, 22 degrees for heavy physical work load and 18 degrees for very heavy work load. What measures are being taken within the public service to implement the obligations set out in the law? Could you please let me know if any initiatives have been taken to reduce the inconveniences of heat by ensuring that federal public servants occupy adequately ventilated premises, regularly hydrate themselves and take breaks to cool down? If so, which ones? If not, why not? Do you consider it appropriate to install water fountains in different jurisdictions to allow federal public servants to drink free of charge? If not, why not?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-14-54-commissie-ic688x.u5	Mr President, Mr Kir, first of all I would like to make it clear that the temperature expressed in the law, which corresponds to the temperature recorded in the wet globe thermometer, that is, the WBGT Index, and the temperature taken with a mercury thermometer as quoted in the press article, must be distinguished. A simple thermometer is not enough to measure warm temperatures. Several factors must be taken into account. A conversion table is available on the website of the SPF Employment, Labour and Social Concertation. For example, for a relative humidity of about 60%, a temperature of 29 degrees measured by the wet globe thermometer is equivalent to about 34 degrees. Specific provisions for situations and opportunities already exist within the various FPS. It is their responsibility to take action taking into account the workload.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-14-54-commissie-ic688x.u6	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-14-54-commissie-ic688x.u7	It is not everyone's fault, but as employers, it is their responsibility to take the necessary measures.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-14-54-commissie-ic688x.u8	Minister, thank you. I will ask you again about the range of measures that are being taken in these cases.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-14-54-commissie-ic688x.u9	Mr. Chair, Minister, my attention has recently been drawn to statements by the CGSP union regarding the observance of fire-fighting standards in public buildings. In fact, it appears that when sampling was carried out in the Brussels Region, in premises with communal services, crèches, CPAS or police forces, it was found that the vast majority of the places were in breach. I quote one trade union delegate: "90 per cent of the buildings we have just surveyed in the Brussels Region do not meet the standards laid down in the Royal Decree of 28 March 2014. We encounter a lot of cases where no one can read and even less manipulate the mandatory fire detection plant in buildings. For example, people who receive public services are rarely aware of what to do in the event of a fire before the firefighters arrive. They also don't know where to find the information. We have also identified deficiencies in the training of fire-fighters – when they exist – or in evacuation exercises that are absent or without any specific relationship." Of course, this testimony is very challenging and I am aware that the facts reported do not specifically concern federal services, even though one of the federal police headquarters has been cited. However, I would like to take stock with you, Minister, and ask you the following questions. What is the state of the information and training of federal agents today in response to the risk of fire? Has a framework evaluation been conducted to identify any deficiencies and/or difficulties in maintaining staff competencies at the highest level? If so, what broad conclusions have been reached? What solutions have been provided on this occasion? The municipality of Ixelles was mentioned among the good students of the public authorities, which I am delighted to be the agent of this entity. However, I would like to know whether there is a platform for harmonization and exchange of best practices at the level of federal FPS, but also at the level of other levels of authority.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-14-54-commissie-ic688x.u10	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Calomne, understand that I can only answer for the buildings occupied by the FPS services that are within my jurisdiction. For each Strategy and Support FPS building (BOSA), an internal emergency plan sets out the procedures to be followed with respect to fire safety. In the case of the WTC III, which is likely to host the entire BOSA SPF in the future, this plan is regularly updated and refined by the safety group, which meets monthly. In this committee, the various services of the building are represented as well as the various preventive advisers and external services which take responsibility for a large part of the security management of the buildings, i.e. the Régie des Bâtiments, Cofely and the 4S Group. In particular, it is the prevention advisor of the SPF BOSA (formerly the SPF P&O) who makes regular business visits to the various buildings and who defines in his reports the points on which attention is needed or which require improvement. It shall communicate this information to the safety officer in a systematic manner. Prevention counsellors are also represented in the Previus network. The latter informs its 800 members of the changes in the legislation. Fire safety is a very regular topic. In addition, annual evacuation exercises are conducted, at the end of which the room manager must complete an assessment report. On the basis of these reports, improvements are made to buildings and to safety and evacuation procedures. New employees are systematically informed, as soon as they enter, about safety and evacuation procedures.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-14-54-commissie-ic688x.u11	Minister, I understand that you have only answered for the federal aspect, but that's because I had been questioned by the fact that public buildings, even local entities, were asking about this problem. That's why I had the idea of soliciting you from the federal level. I thank you for these reassuring answers that go in the right direction.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-14-54-commissie-ic688x.u12	Mr Delannois is not coming.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-14-54-commissie-ic688x.u13	Minister, you announced a few weeks ago that in 16 cities across the country there would be a total of 96 workplaces for federal officials. In Flanders it is about Aalst, Antwerp, Berchem, Bruges, Ghent, Hasselt, Kortrijk, Leuven, Mechelen and Ostend. In Wallonia it is about Arlen, Bergen, Charleroi, Tournai, Liège and Namur. Ninety-six workplaces in 16 cities, on average six additional workplaces per city, if one sees Antwerp and Berchem as two different cities. In order to use the workplace, a kind of reservation system would be used. First of all, what was the situation before your announcement? How many satellite offices were there last year? How many workplaces were there? Secondly, how many of those 96 workplaces in those 16 cities are already fully operational? Thirdly, has there been a measurement of needs? What is the reason for this question of providing additional workplaces in exactly 96 places of work based on? Is the demand equally high everywhere, or is demand higher in certain places? Fourthly, is the additional capacity of 96 workplaces sufficient or will there be an extension? Finally, how does the reservation system work? Is there a priority arrangement?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-14-54-commissie-ic688x.u14	Minister, I would like to ask you about the installation of new shared workspaces to improve the balance between the private and professional lives of agents. Of course, we support this positive initiative. Fifteen sites opened last May across the country and will welcome officers from all FPS. Work in a satellite office will be possible after the employer has agreed. Each organization must determine the conditions of accessibility itself. Minister, can you give me a list of the new FPS satellite offices? What are the criteria taken into account when choosing their location? Is there such a possibility in my constituency of Walloon Brabant? If this is not the case, can you give the reasons?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-14-54-commissie-ic688x.u15	I would first like to point out that the dossier falls within the joint competence of Mr Jambon, Mr Demir and myself. In fact, Mr Jambon has the lead and is responsible for the provision of offices. The project was based on a list of interfederal satellite offices, which resulted from the 2011 "Out of Office' project. When the project was launched in 2016, the list of existing satellite offices or satellite office options was updated. For various reasons, including lack of space, an imminent relocation and the abolition of certain offices, it was no longer possible for some FOD debt holders to offer a location. Today, 15 satellite offices are offered. On 31 December 2016, the project was still in its start-up phase. At that time, no satellite office had been officially opened. Today, all satellite offices are operational. For now, we don't have a satellite office in Tournai or Walloon Brabant. As far as Tournai is concerned, this place had been proposed at the base by the SPF Finances but could not finally be made available. As an alternative, FPS Finance proposed the satellite office in Ath. In the future, it is possible that a satellite office in Tournai may be further analysed. The reservation system is already in place by the Régie des Bâtiments and is called Archibus. It is accessible via Fedweb. To access the reservation system, an Internet connection and the use of a web navigator is sufficient. There is no prioritization. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are talking about a pilot phase, which will last a year, after which we will evaluate. In the interim, the capacity utilisation rate shall be evaluated on the basis of the data from the reservation system, so that appropriate actions can be taken where appropriate. Based on the results of the pilot phase occupancy rate, we will analyse at which satellite offices we will need to increase capacity and where we will need additional satellite offices. The intention is to spread the satellite offices geographically even more so that every federal official has the opportunity to work in a satellite office nearby. With regard to the current lack of a satellite office in Walloon Brabant, I can inform you that the Régie des Bâtiments is analysing all the possibilities for creating a satellite office in this province. I make available to the Secretary of the Committee an updated list of all operational satellite offices.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-14-54-commissie-ic688x.u16	Thank you, Minister. I note that this is about the continuation of a project that has existed since 2011. There are sufficient legitimate reasons such as lack of space, relocation and the allocation of other functions to make other workshops available. Then we'll go with the time. Even in the future, homework, teleworking in satellite offices and everything that brings the workshop closer to the hometown will increase the comfort of the civil servants, which will undoubtedly bring many benefits. In the meantime, we also have many modern means of communication, so that we do not have to drag large packs of files from the office home or another workshop. There are electronic files and means of communication, for example Skype. I do have a thought. If you are in a different place than in the usual environment, working in a satellite office or working at home, you must log in to the network. That network will have to be secure. Today, networks, especially government networks, are at risk of being hacked or being the victim of cybercrime. I am happy to give this consideration, because I am following this issue closely and I do not like to see that this type of crime causes casualties to the public administration.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-14-54-commissie-ic688x.u17	I thank the minister for his answers. I regret, of course, that there is no satellite office in Walloon Brabant, although demand is also high. I hear that the Régie des Bâtiments is beginning to analyse the requests. I will ask Minister Jambon about this. Be aware that the Walloon Brabant Province is ready to make offices available. A new acquisition was made by the province, so there are opportunities. I will not fail to relay them to the minister who has the Régie des Bâtiments in his jurisdiction.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-14-54-commissie-ic688x.u18	Mr. Minister, in response to a written question on the use of acting work in the federal public service, you told me in early May that this matter was regulated by the Act of 24 July 1987 on Temporary Work, Temporary Work and the Provision of Workers to Users. In this respect, Article 1(1), (3), inserted by a law of 30 March 1994, allows the temporary replacement of a person whose legal situation is unilaterally regulated by the authority (statutory agent) and who does not perform his or her duties or exercises them only on a part-time basis. However, "the entry into force of this provision has been postponed until the date on which the King has laid down the procedures, conditions and modalities referred to in article 48 of the Law of 24 July 1987. To date, enforcement action has not yet been taken, so that, in federal services, interim occupation is not possible by regulation." However, you added that, in accordance with the federal majority agreement, a regulatory project to legalize and implement temporary work in federal public services is currently being prepared. I welcome the existence of the current negotiations on this topic because it is an important source of opportunity to make public authorities more effective, using modern management techniques. Of course, it is not a question of replacing staff members with acting staff, but of being able to overcome a temporary and marked shortage of staff during emergencies or staff shortages. We must not have taboos on this subject and we must be able to act without ideological barriers. In this connection, I would like to point out that in the Brussels Region, STIB and the Brussels-Property Agency are bodies of public interest which have already used temporary work to deal with management requirements. Minister, what are the terms of reference for these negotiations? Are there any consultations with federal public service staff representatives to reassure them of the scope of these provisions? Finally, what is the planned agenda for the completion of this dossier?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-14-54-commissie-ic688x.u19	Mr Calomne, in addition to my answer to your written question No 1121 published on May 5, I would like to inform you that the draft regulation has been finalized by my firm and will shortly be submitted to the government's decision. Once the Council of Ministers has reached its agreement, the various administrative stages and trade union consultations can begin.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-14-54-commissie-ic688x.u20	Minister, thank you. I am pleased to hear that the file is being finalized and that it will soon be passed on to the government. I will ask you again once the file has been approved and the consultations have taken place.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-14-54-commissie-ic688x.u21	I hope that we can discuss the bill in committee as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-14-54-commissie-ic688x.u22	Minister, you made a special proposal last year in the plan to prevent burnouts, which was also mentioned by another colleague. You also wanted to allow civil servants to work temporarily elsewhere, within the federal government, but also in the private sector. It could be in a number of hours, weeks or months. Officials could even continue to do their job part-time and work elsewhere for the rest of the time. Working temporarily in the private sector or setting up as a self-employed person was already possible for a period of two years. You wanted to extend that term to four years. The trade unions agreed to this, but nevertheless expressed some reservations. Minister, can you tell us to what extent this possibility is already fully operational? In what way have the officials been informed? Are there any federal officials who are not allowed to use that measure? How successful has this measure been since it was introduced? What happens to the work carried out by the official who is temporarily going to work elsewhere? Is the work being reorganised or is it being replaced temporarily? If that happens, will it be as you wish?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-14-54-commissie-ic688x.u23	Mr President, I can confirm that unpaid leave or long-term absence due to personal matters has been increased from two to four years from 1 April 2017. This extension of the maximum duration of unpaid leave was part of a more comprehensive package of measures aimed at increasing efficiency and, above all, flexibility in the organisation of work for employees and employers. The specific measure to which you refer may also allow permanent officials to opt for temporary employment with an external employer, either in the public sector or in the private sector. In doing so, the official shall determine the manner in which he takes unpaid leave for those four years. Six times during the professional career the official may take up a short period of one month, for longer periods he must ask for at least six months. Leave is a right for most civil servants, but is an exception for holders of mandates, level A4 and A5 officials in charge of a service, and officials whose duties were excluded from the law by a competent minister. These last two groups of officials may nevertheless benefit from this long-term absence if the executive official considers that it is not disturbing for the operation of the service. I do believe that one has a problem if one like A4 or A5 can disappear from his service for a long period of time, but quite apart from that. Officials shall be kept informed of any changes to the Federal Staff Regulations via the Federal Staff Portal..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... In addition, the various personnel services are making a great deal of efforts to assist and inform their staff. My own services support these personnel services in their tasks through information sessions, trainings and customised advice. Two months after the entry into force of the new scheme, I think it is too early to assess the full scope and impact of the measure. However, I will continue to follow up on this. As far as the replacement of the job is concerned, each administration itself provides for the assessment of the staff needs and the deployment of the staff. Each public service will certainly take into account all types of absenteeism and leave taken up by its staff during the year. They are therefore the only ones to make a good assessment and to take appropriate measures.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-14-54-commissie-ic688x.u24	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I welcome such temporary employment systems, especially in the private sector. Taking on new tasks also means taking on new challenges, getting new insights and achieving further professionalisation. This may be separate from the existing function, but it may also strengthen the function of civil servant and the quality of service. I'm an experienced expert myself. I have worked for about 20 years at one and the same employer before taking on a new challenge. I never regretted that. Had it not been for me not to be elected to this House, I might still have worked there. The multitude of tasks can also be very challenging in network forms. Even when leaving a workplace, the network is generally maintained, which certainly offers advantages.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-14-54-commissie-ic688x.u25	Mrs Lalieux and Mrs Caprasse are not present. They have not informed us of this and have not asked us to turn their question into a written question. I use Article 127.10 of the Rules of Procedure and consider their questions, Nos. 17907 and 19271, withdrawn.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-14-54-commissie-ic688x.u26	Mr President, Mr Calvo agrees to turn his questions into written questions if the minister's collaborator can send the answers to Mr Calvo or to me.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-14-54-commissie-ic688x.u27	Question No. 19140 by Mr. Calvo is therefore transformed into a written question. If we come to item 41 of our agenda, we will see whether Mrs Ttermmerman agrees to change her question No 19258, which is attached to Question No 425 by Mr Calvo and No 1923 by yourself, Mr Nollet. We welcome the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Security and Home Affairs for answering oral questions to the Committee on the Interior. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Foret's 18185 was converted into a written question. Interpellation No. Mr Demeyer's 215 was withdrawn. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Scourneau's 18500 and 18718 were converted into written questions. Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Fonck's 18518 will be converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-14-54-commissie-ic688x.u28	Minister, a number of peripheral municipalities have distributed to their inhabitants a form allowing French speakers in these Flemish municipalities to apply to receive their official documents in French for the next four years. According to Minister Homans, all inhabitants were registered by the ship's college in Wezembeek-Oppem, Drogenbos and Kraainem. In Linkebeek and Sint-Genesius-Rode the inhabitants were also mentioned, but here this was done at the initiative of DéFI. For this purpose, a judgment of the Council of State of 20 June 2014, the so-called Caprasse judgment, which states: "To take into account the priority status of Dutch in the monolingual Dutch language area as well as the rights of individuals in the peripheral municipalities, the General Assembly considers that those who wish to be served in French by the municipal administration should submit a request by sending or submitting a letter to the municipal administration. This choice is valid for a reasonable period of four years and is renewable. In addition, in the case of a specific oral contact or in the case of a specific document, the private individual may always request the use of the French language. That judgment is contrary to the Flemish Government's circular, which states that French-speaking residents of those Flemish municipalities must apply again and again for any document they wish to receive in French. The Caprasse judgment is also contrary to several previous judgments of the Council of State, in which the principles of the Letter-Peeters were found to be in accordance with the language law in administrative matters. In the meantime, it became clear that the current Flemish government is still holding on to the letter-Peeters. In response to a written question, Flemish minister Vandeurzen asked: "The judgment only gives a ruling on the destruction of a non-appointment as mayor. The letter on the language used in the services of the Flemish Government remains in force. In the Flemish Rand Policy Note, Minister Weyts confirmed that he continued to apply the principles of the relevant circulars in the assessment of all communication of governments with residents in the facilities municipalities. In the discussion of the policy paper, he added that he wanted to restore the letter-Peeters. In the meantime, Minister Homans, in reply to a written question from my colleague Tom Van Grieken, stated that the Peters letter should not be restored, but that it is still in force unchanged. He wasn't destroyed by the Council of State. It would also take action against decisions which are contrary to the Letter-Peeters. Meanwhile, the Flemish opposition in Sint-Genesius-Rode has lodged a complaint with the custody minister against sending those letters by the municipality to the residents in which they are encouraged to submit a form in which they express their wish to receive their documents in French for four years. I come to you for this because language legislation in the outlying municipalities is still a federal matter. My questions are as follows. Firstly, is it in accordance with the language law in administrative matters and with the existing regulations in this area that French-speaking residents of the peripheral municipalities can systematically obtain their official documents in French for four years once they have completed a form in which they ask? Secondly, do you think that the Peters letter is still valid, even as regards the aspect that a resident of a peripheral municipality, when he wishes to obtain a document in French, has to ask this again and again? Finally, in the light of the current language law in administrative matters, can the custody authority still take action against municipal authorities in the event of a breach of the Peeters letter, in particular as regards this particular aspect that a French-speaking resident of the peripheral municipalities has to apply again and again when he wishes to obtain a certain document in French?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-14-54-commissie-ic688x.u29	Mrs Pas, your questions are very clear. I can therefore give very clear answers. My answers are: no, yes, yes. No, the French-speaking inhabitants in the municipalities should ask for a French translation of the document for each document. Yes, these letters are still valid. Yes, the custody authority is in that case the Flemish Minister of Home Affairs. I'm not gonna waste any more words on that.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-14-54-commissie-ic688x.u30	Thank you for your very clear answer, Minister. I hope the custody minister will take advantage of that, if one perseveres in anger.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-14-54-commissie-ic688x.u31	I'll see if Mr. Maingain's coming later.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-14-54-commissie-ic688x.u32	Deputy Prime Minister, on the occasion of the presentation of the various ambitious measures envisaged in the framework of the last Security Council, a project to integrate citizens' fingerprints into identity cards, like the procedure already laid down for passports, was presented. The aim is to better combat identity fraud, but also to strengthen border controls. While I welcome this measure, I would nevertheless like to obtain some further details on its implementation. Can you give us more details about this project to integrate fingerprints into identity cards? What is the planned agenda for its implementation? What is planned to equip the municipalities and train their agents in this measure? Have any contacts been planned with local government representatives in the three regions? Finally, what about the consultations with the Privacy Commission to ensure the best legal framework for the project?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-14-54-commissie-ic688x.u33	Minister, among the measures announced by the government a few weeks ago, following its extraordinary Council of Ministers, we learn that identity cards will gradually integrate, and from 2019 onwards, the holder's fingerprints. This measure appears to be comparable to the retention of biometric data in passport smart cards. As with passports, this personal data would not be centralized, but only contained in the holder's identity card. The aim of such a measure would therefore be to ensure that the person holding the identity card is the holder of the card, an objective of course commendable, which is to combat a form of fraud. This measure is not anomaly. That is why I would like to ask you the following questions. Does this measure meet a real need? Is there a fraud of identity cards, comparable to that of passports? Does the police have difficulties identifying with current identity cards? Can we provide figures and studies on this topic? Will police officers really be able to compare these biometric data to ensure the identity of individuals? In concrete terms, this means that they will have to have a fingerprint reader on them. How many readers will be acquired by the state? What will be the cost of such equipment nationally? To what extent, during a routine check, will the police be able to demand that a citizen put his or her finger on the reader? What happens if he refuses? What other authority would be allowed to compare fingerprints with those on the ID card? As identity cards are increasingly used by businesses, does the government intend to ensure that the private sector cannot legally and materially access these fingerprints, whether or not the citizen consents to them, in order to prevent them from becoming a market value?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-14-54-commissie-ic688x.u34	Mr Crusnière, the aim is to integrate fingerprints into the new EID cards that will be distributed from the beginning of 2019. This is entirely similar to what is done for passports. The process will take ten years. This means that fingerprints will only be stored in the EID without being recorded in a centralized database. As with passports, fingerprints will be recorded in a Radio Frequency Identification (RFID) chip, which allows one-on-one control, in municipalities, police stations and border posts, thus at EU airports and in countries such as Egypt or Turkey where Belgian DIAs are allowed as travel documents. During a one-on-one check, the cardholder's fingerprints are taken on-site to be compared with those recorded on the card. Furthermore, it is certified that it was the Belgian State which placed the fingerprints in the card and that no change could have taken place. The equipment of the communal counters is the same as for passports. There will be no additional investment. This method essentially helps to counter identity fraud based on the resemblance or use of falsified and reproduced cards. The aim is to protect the identity of citizens and to combat identity fraud, which is a means of committing other crimes: terrorism, social fraud, fraud, etc. Moreover, safeguarding a correct identity is the cornerstone of our modern rule of law. The fight against identity fraud is also a way of protecting privacy, which is no longer discussed in the event of identity being stolen. Mr Crusnière, every foreign terror fighter, every terrorist has a few aliases. They are known in the OCAM database by their name, fortunately, but sometimes also by six or seven other names. So, yes, identity fraud is a key to these major crime phenomena. Registered fingerprints meet all security requirements, as they apply to passports (encrypted registration, limited access only to competent public services, etc.) It's exactly the same as for passports. We recall that the first fingerprint cards will appear in early 2019. As noted above, the integration of fingerprints into the new IDEs will be carried out entirely by analogy with passports. The municipalities therefore already have the necessary equipment for this purpose (fingerprint scanners). It should be made clear that, on the basis of European legislation, fingerprints are already being integrated into an RFID chip on electronic cards for non-European foreigners. In order to integrate fingerprints on the new EID card, the law will have to be adapted. The Privacy Commission's opinion will be sought during the preparation of the bill. As for the number of offences, I have already answered written questions several times and I can communicate them to you. This number is not negligible. It's really a crime-related phenomenon.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-14-54-commissie-ic688x.u35	Minister, thank you for your full answers. I am pleased to note that, as was the case with passports, progress is also being made on identity cards. I think it's more current than ever. I also asked you about the number of fake ID cards. You said that the numbers were challenging. The measure we are talking about, if it is not the only one, will help to solve this problem. I am thinking of acts of terrorism, but also of identity usurpations. I myself was a victim a few years ago of identity fraud and if there had been a fingerprinting system, it could have been avoided. It would be useful to consult with the Privacy Commission to verify respect for our fundamental freedoms. Taking this into account, it seems to me that we can move forward on this path and respond to a number of problems. This may not be the only solution, but it is part of a mechanism that meets these objectives.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-14-54-commissie-ic688x.u36	I thank the minister for his answers. I would be very interested to consult the figures as well. Answers to this question have already been made, and if you could send them to us, that would be appreciated. We are indeed faced with all kinds of means that we must use to combat terrorism and, moreover, we must consider the proportionality aspect in relation to all these measures in relation to the protection of privacy and respect for fundamental freedoms. You said that the readers are the same for both passports and identity cards. It's good for the communes, but if I'm not mistaken, when the police are on patrol, they don't have a passport reader with them. The goal is to control and take on the fact people who would usurp an identity during a check. This will not be possible unless, as I indicated in my question, there are equipment to equip the police. This represents an additional cost which is not included in the budget and which is not relevant. This question will also have to be asked at some point in time.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-14-54-commissie-ic688x.u37	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Delannois' 18794 was postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-14-54-commissie-ic688x.u38	Mr President, Minister, this is a follow-up question. At the time, I told you about the very great creativity shown by some of your fellow ministers and also by the VCT in connection with the application of Article 35 (1) of the language law in administrative matters. I'm not gonna repeat my whole explanation of that time. In short, they make up some of the services covered by Article 35 (1) of the Language Act, where the bilingualism of the staff is required, suddenly, after years of regional services, they make up central or executive services, so they are competent for the whole country, although their scope is limited to Brussels and possibly parts of Walloon Brabant and Flemish Brabant. But then the bilingual requirement would no longer apply to staff. They do so from the observation that a large proportion of the staff employed there are not bilingual, although they should be by law. Ministers were supported by the Standing Committee on Language Monitoring, which once again gave an opinion on this subject. At that time, Minister, I drew your attention to the fact that it undermines one of the basic principles of the language law, in particular the principle of its scope, and that this may have far-reaching consequences. This opens the door to an extension of the facilities throughout the country for all other regional services. In my view, there is no justification whatsoever for turning these four services concerned, which have been regarded as regional services over the past few decades and of which a number of staff are officially bilingual, into central or executive services. Your answer to my conversation at the beginning of February was that you found the case meaningful enough to investigate them further. You said that you would take the time and that you would keep the matter under review to see what clarifications you might be able to make and/or possibly take other initiatives to ensure that language legislation is correctly applied. In the meantime, we're four months away. I assume that you have now kept the matter under review, and that is why I would like to have an answer on the substance today. Firstly, do you agree that in these four cases it would be a matter of central or executive services, i.e. services for the whole country? On what grounds, given the language legislation, is that so? Secondly, if that is the case, should the reasoning not be consistently extended to all other regional services, with the result that the facilities for foreign speakers will be substantially extended? Thirdly, if you consider the point raised in my first question to be negative, what is the difference with the other regional services? Finally, if you do not follow this line of reasoning, will you take steps towards your fellow ministers on the four services concerned to point out to them that these services are indeed services for which Article 35 (1) of the language legislation applies? According to that provision, the staff concerned must be bilingual. I look forward to your answer on the matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-14-54-commissie-ic688x.u39	Mr President, Mrs Pas, as I replied to you in February 2017, the VCT is an independent institution, which gives autonomous opinions on the language law in administrative matters. The Minister of the Interior cannot and must not touch that. This time it is a matter of sayings that may not make sense to us, but the Standing Committee on Language Control has also often been a tool in enforcing the language law. You will understand that, if it depends on the Minister of the Interior to interpret and correct, for example, the language role, colour or insights, this would totally undermine the sense of the Standing Committee on Language Monitoring. So I can't and I won't. In the government, each minister is responsible for ensuring compliance with the language laws within his competence. That is the responsibility of each minister individually. The Ministers for Pensions and Social Affairs have requested the opinions you are referring to from the Standing Committee on Linguistic Monitoring. They must therefore give you more information on the consequences they wish to give on the opinions they have received from the Standing Committee on Language Monitoring. That's their own responsibility. It is Parliament's responsibility to monitor. You must therefore put your questions to my two colleagues.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-14-54-commissie-ic688x.u40	Of course, Minister, you could have answered that four months ago. At that time, you felt it was worth looking at the file in your capacity as responsible for language legislation itself. At that time, I was not supposed to come to your colleagues myself. I would have liked to know your opinion, since you are competent in matters of language law. After all, it's one or the other. The advice or the theorem of the VCT is counter legem. Either you follow that advice or you don't follow it. If you follow it, the reasoning must be consistently extended to all regional services. Then, of course, you have a problem with far-reaching consequences. I had hoped that you would take a stand there and encourage your fellow Members to reorganise and call them to order, saying that language legislation is important and should be applied. I'm sure I'll knock on their door too. However, it is easy to suddenly open the umbrella four months later and not keep the matter under review as you promised me at the time.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-14-54-commissie-ic688x.u41	Minister, what happened to the incident that took place on the evening of 23 May at the Doel 3 nuclear power plant leading to its emergency shutdown? Was this incident classified on the INES scale? What lessons do you learn from this incident? What is being done to prevent this from happening again?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-14-54-commissie-ic688x.u42	Mr Nollet, on 23 May at 11:12 p.m., the Doel 3 reactor automatically stopped following the shutdown of the turbine. Further analysis revealed that the origin was at the height of the control of a turbine steam valve. The operator ENGIE Electrabel has undertaken the necessary corrective actions. During the night of Wednesday 24 to Thursday 25 May, Doel 3 was safely reconnected to the electricity grid. This incident did not have an impact on the well-being of the population, employees and the environment. After the INES evaluation of the operator ENGIE Electrabel and the independent evaluation of the technical subsidiary Bel V, AFCN can confirm INES zero. It is therefore an unimportant event in the field of nuclear safety. The AFCN communicates all events that qualify as Level 1 or higher on its website. No message related to the Doel 3 event will therefore be found on the AFCN website.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-14-54-commissie-ic688x.u43	I will consolidate my reply with the reply of the next question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-14-54-commissie-ic688x.u44	Minister, after Doel's closure on Tuesday, May 23rd, it's the turn of the Doel 4 power plant. An incident occurred on Friday 26 May at the Doel 4 nuclear power plant, which also resulted in an unplanned manual shutdown. What happened? Why a manual stop? Was this incident classified on the INES scale? What lessons do you learn from this incident? What is being done to prevent this from happening again? I would add a question: why has the recovery been postponed three times? At the time I sent my question, the revival was programmed, but it was then postponed three times.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-14-54-commissie-ic688x.u45	Mr Nollet, I am not informed about this last point. But we will find out and provide you with an answer. On 26 May, at 11:00 a.m., the Doel 4 reactor was manually shut down following the presence of water in the engine room, which threatened the correct functioning of several instruments necessary for the stable operation of the non-nuclear part of the plant. In-depth analysis revealed that the origin was a leak of water. The operator ENGIE Electrabel has undertaken the necessary corrective actions. On June 2, Doel 4 was reconnected – perhaps after a few postponements of which I don't know anything – safely to the electricity grid. This incident had no impact on the well-being of the population, employees and the environment. It is therefore an unimportant event in the field of nuclear safety. As the event has nothing to do with nuclear safety, it is therefore not classified in the INES scale.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-14-54-commissie-ic688x.u46	Thus, my joint reply to the two incidents – Doel 3 and Doel 4 – invites me to note that these incidents did not take place in the nuclear part and had no impact on workers or the environment. But they raise the question of the reliability of the plant's operation in two dimensions: ageing, on the one hand, and maintenance, on the other. One might wonder if this is enough. I know we're there on top of the competencies of the Federal Agency – so, yours – and Minister Marghem's. However, this could have consequences in terms of safety and security. That's why I often come back to you to clarify the causes of each incident. Their multiplication makes me say – and I am not the only one, judging in particular by the media interventions of Professor Ernst – that ENGIE Electrabel no longer invests enough in the non-nuclear part for maintenance. Probably the pressure is stronger on the nuclear part, but here we are talking about the non-nuclear part, as you have repeated it. This worries me, even if my fears are less than if an incident had caused damage to people or the environment. Just as I will do with your colleague Marghem, I can only invite you to remain attentive to this issue of the multiplication of incidents resulting from underinvestment in terms of maintenance.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-14-54-commissie-ic688x.u47	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Gabriels' 19086 will be converted into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament 19103 by Mrs Lahaye-Battheu was postponed. Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Dierick also postponed 19120. Question No 1, by Mr De Pasquale (H-l Mr Foret, President-in-Office of the Council. - (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. 19140 by Mr Calvo.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-14-54-commissie-ic688x.u48	Mr. Chair, Minister, I have just asked a similar question to the Minister of Justice. Without wishing to take a personal position or use, I would like to see constructive reflection on the sensitive issue of legalizing cannabis. In order to nourish this reflection, here is this one doing elsewhere, as you certainly know. Canada will make marijuana legal on July 1, 2018. It will not be the first State to do so. Uruguay has done so in 2013 and several U.S. states have done so in recent years. But the rules are not the same everywhere. In most U.S. states, the amount of cannabis you can buy or have on your own is 28.5 grams. The federal capital (Washington DC) is a special case, since it can own up to 57 grams of cannabis, but its purchase and sale remain illegal. On the other hand, up to 28.5 grams of cannabis can be transferred to another person without payment. In Uruguay, 10 grams of cannabis can be purchased per week for a maximum of 40 grams per month. In Canada, the bill will allow the purchase and possession of 30 grams of dried cannabis or equivalent in other products (fresh cannabis, liquid, concentrate, etc.).). Contrary to what might be believed, cannabis remains illegal in the Netherlands, although possession (less than 5 g), consumption and sale in coffee shops are tolerated. Large-scale cultivation and distribution are prohibited. Small quantities of cannabis are decriminalized in Portugal and Spain, where cultivation is also permitted. In Switzerland, "light" cannabis containing less than 1% THC can be sold and purchased (normal cannabis contains 15% on average). These different states seem to have taken the lead on some conservatism; thus, the Belgian prohibition of this substance shows the same effect as that of alcohol in the US in the 1920s, leaving the field open to "Al Capone" of hashish. Minister, in order to feed this reflection, could you tell me what the human cost of staff is invested by your department in the fight against the use, possession, manufacture and trafficking of cannabis in our territory? Thus, in my commune, we had to assign a section specializing in the problem of drugs, mainly cannabis. What are the difficulties faced by different law enforcement agencies in this struggle? What are the results achieved by your department in recent years in this struggle? What is the progress of the figures? Are you winning this fight? As part of this reflection, I also asked your colleague the Minister of Justice, because I think this is a joint effort. I would now like to illustrate the fact that for young people this phenomenon is completely trivialized. My colleague, Mr. Van Hees, also knows the station of Braine-le-Comte, where I live. He can confirm that Pier No. 1 is the place where students meet, where joints are made, where they are smoked. When I find them and tell them that it's more serious than six to eight cigarettes, they tell me that I'm an old offspring and that it's become completely banal. This is a difficult problem, because not all European or global states have the same attitude on this subject. And young people, at a time of globalization, are wondering why, if it is allowed, admitted and sold legally in a country, it is not so at home. Secondly, I think that we must also work with the Communities, which have prevention in their remit. Practice of ostrich policy does not seem to me the best solution. It is true that we are taking, and I congratulate you on that, both light and hard drugs. But we will all agree that we can only take the top of the iceberg. A huge part of the consumption is not captured. These are not tonnes of steel, but very light substances which are very easily exchanged. I know it's not obvious. Some 20 years ago, a senator of my party, Pol Boël, who was also a steel worker in La Louvière, had already tabled a proposal to organize the sale of cannabis in state stores, with a parallel health control. That's a big problem I'm dealing with today. I do not, of course, ask you today, by way of an oral question, to answer the whole of the problem, but you know in particular, as Minister of the Interior, that scumbags, Nazislamists, like Abdeslam, etc. They, too, were involved in drug trafficking, which also fueled their potential for attacks. I know you're sensitive to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-14-54-commissie-ic688x.u49	Mr President, Mr Flahaux, I cannot answer your question about the financial cost. Monitoring was coordinated by the General Drug Policy Unit of the Public Health FPS. However, I can point out that the fight against the problem of narcotics, including cannabis, involves the action of both the federal police and the local police. In this connection, I would like to point out that the fight against local drug markets is primarily the responsibility of the local police, while the specialized services of the Federal Judicial Police are in charge of combating the more organized forms linked in particular to the trafficking and production of drugs (cannabis and synthetic drugs). The two components of the integrated police force, of course, have to work together on a daily basis under the auspices of the local judicial authorities. At the federal level, it is in particular the services of the specialized judicial police sections (at the central and decentralized level) that are called upon to intervene. At the local level, of course, I will mention the research sections of the police areas. In total, it is therefore several hundred local and federal investigators who focus their tasks on these phenomena. Beyond that, I must point out that all integrated police services are likely to find drug offences and thus contribute to the fight against drugs. Drug trafficking and production are subject not only to various difficulties but also to numerous threats. First of all, the police are confronted with a crime that generates an unprecedented illegal asset. This illicit income continues to motivate criminals, including in States where some form of regulation has been adopted. This means that criminal organizations naturally generate violence to protect their financial gains from other criminal organizations. Our police services therefore have to deal with specific organizations that do not hesitate to use weapons to protect themselves. Furthermore, drug-related crime is becoming more and more complex in criminal investigations. The detection of cannabis crops is, for example, made more arduous, while it poses certain dangers to the community. A fire risk, for example. These same crops also expose our law enforcement forces to health hazards, because of the dangerous products used to accelerate cannabis production. The police are responsible for detecting criminal situations and bringing the perpetrators before the judicial authorities. In terms of cannabis production, first of all, more than a thousand plantations have been dismantled each year since 2013, while only 35 were discovered in 2003. However, we note a decrease in the number of plantations discovered in 2016. In the area of trafficking, it is tons of cannabis that have been seized by customs or police in recent years, whether this cannabis comes from North Africa or other parts of the world. These seizures have been translated into judicial actions that have led to the dismantling of criminal networks established in our country. Finally, our police services have been confronted since 2012 with the change in Dutch regulations on coffee shops and have had to cope not only with a shift from part of Dutch crime to our country and the border region, but also with an increase in national demand for cannabis. Here again I must highlight the action of our services which have contributed to the rapid detection of the displacement of this crime. The General National Data Bank (BNG) is a police database where facts are recorded on the basis of minutes. I will provide you with a table showing the number of events recorded by the drug police services, by class: use, detention, import, export, trade, manufacture and others referring to cannabis as an object of crime for the period 2000 to 2015 and the first three quarters of 2016, at the national level. These data are from the data bank closed on 20 January 2017. Drug records are a typical example of queer crime. The more you look for, the more action you take, the more minutes you can write. Variations in records are mainly due to variations in policing activities and priorities. It should also be noted that the number of facts is not always the most relevant criterion. The amount of drugs also certainly counts. But as soon as we know the existence of the crime phenomenon, we do actions, which, at the beginning, increases the numbers. What is relevant, however, is the number of laboratories identified. The total number is not known. That's interesting! The increase or decrease in numbers is one thing. In fact, this should be compared with the number of laboratories, for example. But it's very difficult to do. For most drug offences, the peak is in the 2014-15 period. This is the case for detention, commerce, manufacturing and other offences. With regard to import-export, there has been a downward trend since 2009, with a sharp decline in 2012, which continued in 2013. This decrease is probably due to the fact that on 1 May 2012, the cannabis passport – the weed pass – was introduced in the Dutch provinces of Limburg, North Brabant and Zeeland. The effect of this passport is that people who are not domiciled there can no longer buy drugs in coffee shops. Drug use per se is not prohibited, contrary to what many think. However, it is impossible to use drugs without possession, which is punishable. If a consumer is apprehended, a PV is then held for possession and use of drugs. The "individual use" code was deactivated at the end of 2009, after advice from police and justice experts. The usage figures show a very sharp decline in 2010. This decrease can therefore be explained by the deactivation of the "individual use" code. A final methodological remark must be made: the possession of any drug, including cannabis, is prohibited. Since 2003, there has been a derogation for adults holding a small amount of cannabis for their personal use: less than three grams or a cultivated plant. In the absence of aggravating circumstances – for example, the presence of minors – and of disturbances of public order – for example, ostentatious detention in a public place – only a simplified report is drawn up. Simplified minutes are not normally sent to the Public Prosecutor's Office, but the Public Prosecutor's Office receives a complete list of written minutes on a monthly basis. These PVs are nevertheless encoded in the general national database, and therefore also in police statistics.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-14-54-commissie-ic688x.u50	Minister, thank you for your answer, and especially for the figures you have given us. It is clear that the police are taking real action, and I can testify for my own area. But I think it's a bit of the cat running after its tail, in the sense that today, in the population and especially among young people, we find the consideration that cannabis is almost no longer a drug, since it is consumed even in public places. When I make the remark, they say to me: "So what? It's still allowed." And I say, "No, it's allowed for adults, adults, and in private places." This is the whole difficulty of the exercise. To the limit, we should almost take stock of the general state of the drug problem as to how we, together with all the European countries, could work in the same direction. Legislation is so contradictory from one country to another (as I described earlier) that it creates disruptions, misunderstandings and even non-acceptances. For example, young people also go on holiday to Portugal, Spain where decriminalisation is relatively general. Europe must take one step forward in this area. I thank you for these elements, which, in my personal capacity, will allow me to move forward the reflection.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-14-54-commissie-ic688x.u51	Debates of the European Parliament 18905 by Mrs Jadin will be converted into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Hufkens' 18966 was postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-14-54-commissie-ic688x.u52	Mr President, Minister, Génération Identitaire is an extreme right-wing group that has just launched a new "Defend Europe" project. The aim is to disrupt the rescue operations of NGOs in the Mediterranean. Its members compare NGOs to "human smugglers" whom they want to counter. Refugees, they simply want to bring them back to the African coast by practicing push back, even though these people have the right to come and apply for asylum in Europe. This group collects donations online for this project and also wants to come to Belgium, in Ghent, where it organises a meeting on 29 June. They have already carried out a first action in Catania, Italy. They tried to stop a rescue ship from going to sea. Their operation failed and they were arrested. Prosecutions are likely to be initiated. Disruption of rescue operations at sea is, however, illegal, in addition to being totally inhuman. These are, therefore, very concrete plans to allow people to drown in the Mediterranean. Minister, what is your opinion on this kind of group? Do you intend to take measures to prohibit such events? What measures do you intend to take to address the obvious radicalization of this type of group?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-14-54-commissie-ic688x.u53	Mr Van Hees, on my decision, a particular grouping may be included in a list of groups to be followed in the interests of public order. This is intended to enable the police services to collect and process personal data relating to the activities of its members because the information available on this group is insufficient to meet the needs of the police services and the only legal possibility to collect this information is to monitor the activities of the members of this group which may disturb public order. I refer to groups that can thus receive special attention from the police services through constant monitoring of the activities of their members within the framework of the administrative police. These groups are the subject of a limited list whose content is evolving and has been fixed by me on the basis of proposals from the police services or on my initiative after consultation with the police services. This group Génération Identitaire is of French origin, with ramifications in different European countries. He wanted to come and demonstrate in Belgium after the attacks in Brussels, but this was not allowed because of the risk of confrontations that were too high. Despite their extremist views, their actions take place in a disciplined and non-violent manner. However, this does not exclude that their actions may have a polarizing character that can impact public order. The police, as far as public order is concerned, and the OCAM, as far as extremism is concerned, carry out an assessment of the impact of the meetings mentioned in your question. If the threats and risks are too high, the mayor may eventually prohibit their gathering. I can point out that these organizations are being closely monitored by the police and intelligence services as well as by the Radicalism Action Plan, the R Plan.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-14-54-commissie-ic688x.u54	Minister, thank you for your answer. If I understand your answer correctly, this grouping is one of the groups to follow.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-14-54-commissie-ic688x.u55	What are you saying?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-14-54-commissie-ic688x.u56	You say that groups must be followed. Is the grouping in question part of it?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-14-54-commissie-ic688x.u57	Not yet because we are not aware of the existence of a grouping of this organisation in Belgium. But we know that this is the case in France. In doing so, when they applied for an activity, they were not given permission. Since there is no link between this organisation and a structure in Belgium, it is difficult to act. We need to have an indication of the presence of members, a local, a non-profit organization, etc., linked to this organization in our country. The OCAM and the police are following the question and as soon as we have an indication, I will make a decision.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-14-54-commissie-ic688x.u58	I take note of your answer to this question. I note, however, that they are organising a meeting on 29 June in Ghent. A priori, I have the feeling that there is a structure in Belgium. Of course, we can organize a structure from abroad, but it seems to me to be much more complicated. You have not really told me your precise position on this group and its actions. You say that these are carried out without violence, that they are more or less legal, that they are polarizing. These are only generalities. You didn't tell me exactly what you were planning to do on June 29. You said that it was the responsibility of the mayor, that you did not intervene, that is, that you left the hot potato in the hands of the mayor!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-14-54-commissie-ic688x.u59	Mr. President, Minister, in a press article released last February, we learned that armed robbers are increasingly targeting small businesses, and in particular officiaries. In fact, in six months of time, over the year 2016, no less than 86 pharmacies were held in Belgium. This is twice as much as the previous year at the same time, as the Union Neutrale des Indépendants (SNI) points out. In order to support these victims, your administration, the Internal FPS, had already developed a toolbox, in collaboration with the Association of Pharmacists of Belgium, a manual intended to advise them in order to strengthen the security of their pharmaceutical. A welcome initiative by pharmacists, who have unfortunately not seen the number of attacks on them decrease. Therefore, you announced the creation, this year 2017, of a working group dedicated to crime affecting this profession. I recall its objective: "This group will bring together representatives of pharmacists, as well as members of the federal police and local police. Various actors in prevention will also participate. The purpose of this group will be to provide in-depth analysis and practical responses to the specific problems affecting clinics (...); the violent incidents that have affected general practitioners this year have also led its administration to set up a working group on this phenomenon. A specific brochure in terms of prevention is also being prepared." Therefore, Mr Minister of the Interior, I would like to ask you the following questions. How do you explain that there are twice as many robberies this year compared to the same period last year? Why is the phenomenon not falling? Do you have recent data indicating a reversal of trend? How many officers are registered in Belgium? Which areas or districts are most affected by these criminal activities? Is the working group already in place? If so, has an initial activity report already been submitted? What actions have been taken by this group and what are its future activities? If not, what will be the group's objectives and plan of action? Have specific measures been taken to protect pharmacies? If so, which ones? If not, have any prevention campaigns been carried out in Belgium for their safety?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-14-54-commissie-ic688x.u60	Mr Kir, the data cited comes from the BNG, the general national database, of the integrated police based on a photo of 20 January this year. It is therefore a count on the basis of the infringements recorded in the minutes. I will provide you with a table containing the number of armed robberies committed against pharmacies, at the national level, for the full years from 2011 to 2015, as well as for the first three quarters of 2016. You will see that the number of facts varies from 189 to 115. For the first three quarters of 2016, this number already stood at 110. It is clear that in the period 2013-2015, the figures are significantly lower than for the years 2011 and 2012. However, it must be acknowledged that 2016 is expected to be less good, since the first nine months show a total figure that is already very close to that of the full year 2015. As regards the distribution on Belgian territory – which is also shown in the above table – a breakdown is made according to the judicial district for the first nine months of 2016. You can see that Liège has the highest number of facts and that Luxembourg and West Flanders have the lowest figures. It is clear that it is especially the district of Liège that is seriously affected, followed by Charleroi. This is also reflected in the three most affected police areas. We see the names of Liège and Charleroi, followed by Antwerp, which is however the largest area in the country. It is true that the phenomenon of armed robbery has tended in recent years to move towards local shops, including pharmacies. These, due in part to their large number in the Territory, are the preferred target. For the number of officers in Belgium, we do not have the data; this should be addressed to the Belgian Pharmaceutical Association (BPA). As of 2015, the PDB has drawn up an action plan based on four objectives, namely: - an awareness-raising survey among pharmacists, - the annual organisation of a study day for the sector, - the creation of partnerships with various actors in the world of security - and the establishment of a permanent communication point. In this context, various information sessions were organized with provincial associations affiliated with the PDB, in collaboration with the federal and local police services, during which the results of the awareness survey, crime trends (theft, armed robbery) against the sector and preventive advice were presented. In addition to the above-mentioned actions initiated by the PDB, initiatives have been taken by my services – the Directorate of Safety and Prevention – including the development of a toolbox and the management of PLP (local preventive partnerships) dedicated to the self-employed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-14-54-commissie-ic688x.u61	Mr. Chair, I thank the minister for his full answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-14-54-commissie-ic688x.u62	Mr President, Mr Minister, since 1983, the use of the National Register has been reserved for the public sector, for administrations, parastatals, notaries and bailiffs as ministerial officers and, subject to authorization, for bodies governed by Belgian law, provided that they are guided by the general interest, as is the case with mutuals. I recently read in the press that you found access to these very restrictive data. I also read that you were wondering about opening up access to the National Register for banks, insurance, telecom operators, energy companies, etc. Minister, even if, as you say in the press, "opening will only concern a highly regulated communication of limited information" (names, first names, principal residence, acts of change of address and death), I am wondering about the risks of improper use. You are currently proposing to limit access only to a number of organizations, but others may also be seeking access. In addition, I do not think that you no longer guarantee absolute respect for privacy. I would like to give you two examples. In my commune and in my police area, we found abuse of the National Register for private purposes by a police officer who was looking for information about his neighbour's girlfriend. We also found that there were very curious officials in the administration. Thus, at times, sworn public personnel misuse this database. Minister, what is the status of this project? How can you guarantee privacy, which is a fundamental concept for me? Are there any new penalties for abuse?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-14-54-commissie-ic688x.u63	Mr Clarinval, a reflection is indeed under way on the possibility of communicating changes in data from the National Register in order to enable private sector actors to update the data which they would otherwise have, for example, in the event of a move or death. A draft bill has been drafted by my services to that effect. The objective of the project is in no way to grant direct access to the data of the National Register. Since this project is only at the preliminary stage of discussions with my government partners, it seems premature to further develop the guidelines. The communication of data from the national register will of course be strictly supervised and limited in order to respect and protect privacy. In this regard, the text of the draft legislation will be submitted to, among other things, the Privacy Commission's opinion. A strengthening of criminal penalties for misuse and non-compliance with the confidentiality and privacy of data is also envisaged.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-14-54-commissie-ic688x.u64	Minister, I trust you. You have paid particular attention to the main concerns expressed. As a Liberal, it is really fundamental to me that privacy is guaranteed and that sanctions are provided for the misuse of this data. I trust you to ensure the balance between administrative simplification and modernisation of public services, on the one hand, and respect for privacy, which is fundamental to me, on the other. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-14-54-commissie-ic688x.u65	Mr President, Mr Minister, your spokesman has stated in the press that following the London attacks, the level of terrorist alert remains well set at 3 on a scale of 4 for Belgium as a whole. No new measures are also taken at this stage for specific events: "security measures are already announced and taken. They are or will be reinforced in certain events in accordance with a specific circular. We have again reminded the organizers of these security measures by circular last week." In the wake of these attacks, and more generally of a resurgence of terrorist acts in Europe, one has the right to wonder whether the scale of the threat is still as relevant. Can you tell us, Minister, what is the risk of this threat in Belgium today, and how do you intend to respond to it?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-14-54-commissie-ic688x.u66	Kir, in his latest assessment of the general threat in Belgium – and this is dated 17 May 2017 – OCAM has maintained the level of 3, serious, for reasons essentially related to the threat posed by the terrorist group Islamic State. The ongoing investigation into the London bombing this weekend does not at present demonstrate any connection with Belgium. The OCAM therefore considers that, in view of the elements at its disposal, there is no need to change this level of threat. You know that increasing the level from 3 to 4 means that we have a threat of an imminent nature, that we know where and when it will take place. There is no further indication at the moment, fortunately. The OCAM therefore considers that, in view of the elements at its disposal, there is no need to change this level of threat. Nevertheless, the OCAM analyses the threat in real time and will immediately report any changes in the level of the general threat, if any, and according to the information to be transmitted to it. This means that the type of threat we have had for more than a year on soft traps, places or activities where many people gather, remains the same.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-14-54-commissie-ic688x.u67	Mr. Chair, Minister, a week ago, you indicated that you received a green light from the Privacy Commission for the international collection of air passenger data. The royal decree could be drafted before the summer and the implementation carried out before spring 2018. You are planning to create a new passenger information department within the crisis centre, which is an obligation of the European directive. You consider yourself supported by this opinion and plan to create a similar regulation for international rail traffic. However, some railway undertakings in neighbouring countries have many reservations about this regulation. Minister, what will be the budget allocated to this new department? Are these additional resources or will they be drawn from existing budgets? How many people will be engaged to analyze this data? Will any additional measures be taken to support the cybersecurity of this database? What is the timetable for implementing the rules for international rail traffic as well as by coach and boat? Do you intend to discuss this with SNCB and railway undertakings in neighbouring countries, as was the case with air traffic plans? What is the position of your European colleagues on this project? Finally, I would like to add a question. An article in the newspaper L'Echo states that passenger data will not only be used in the fight against terrorism and heavy crime but also against illegal immigration. This has indeed been mentioned in committee for the HAPPY Directive but not for PNR data. Don't you think, minister, that you're out of line with this statement or plan to extend the NRP to illegal immigration?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-14-54-commissie-ic688x.u68	Mr Van Hees, as the question was asked in Dutch, I also have the text of the answer in Dutch. I will translate this text, but I may have some hesitation. Second preliminary remark, you are talking about air and rail transport, but we will expand this provision to include international low-cost buses and boats. Your first question concerns the financial elements. The bill passed into the Council of Ministers on 4 December 2015 at first reading. At that time, we had already issued a budget estimate. This estimate for the start-up phase was validated by the Finance Inspectorate and confirmed by a letter from the Minister of Budget. On the one hand, the sources of funding come from interdepartmental appropriations, which we have used for several projects, and on the other hand, from European funds from the Internal Security Fund - Police. The personnel cost for the start-up phase of the Passenger Information Unit is estimated at €1,270,424. This represents the salary cost plus the operating credit. These appropriations are recurrent in the Interdepartmental Fund. In addition, members of the relevant departments will be seconded. To do this, we plan a €500,000 credit and a recurring operating credit of €80,000. With regard to the number of analysts, for the time being we have engaged two per competent department, i.e. eight in total. Six more will be recruited for the Passenger Information Unit itself. This means that fourteen analysts will participate in the start-up phase. This number will increase as of next year, from which the Passenger Information Unit will be operational. On the rail side, we are talking about a first step, because we never know what can happen next. Clearly, the project currently defined concerns Thalys and Eurostar. So, SNCB is not involved. I obtained an agreement on 26 January between our country, the Netherlands, France and the United Kingdom to start this project. We have set up a task force bringing together the first two companies mentioned above as well as Eurotunnel. The aim is to find a working method that does not contradict the business model of these companies. There is indeed a huge difference between rail and air models. We are not going to ban people from buying a train ticket at the last minute, as long as we can carry out real-time checks. We do it with the three companies. For the moment, we are carrying out an impact assessment for companies and passengers. When the results are available, we will see how to implement this system. These results are expected before the end of the year. To answer your added question, the framework law of 23 December 2016 provides for the use of this PNR system. We're staying in this frame. These are the phenomena of great crime and terrorism.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-14-54-commissie-ic688x.u69	And so no illegal immigration!- Is that what you're saying? Because that's what you answer to L'Echo.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-14-54-commissie-ic688x.u70	You asked me about the PNR. In the same framework law, there is this API. The purpose of the PNR is to control passenger data from blacklists. The API is a more limited database that can be used for illegal immigration.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-14-54-commissie-ic688x.u71	So you confirm that the PNR is not used for illegal immigration, but only the API.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-14-54-commissie-ic688x.u72	That's it! The API is a transposition into Belgian law of a European directive.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-14-54-commissie-ic688x.u73	Thank you, Minister, for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-14-54-commissie-ic688x.u74	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Terwingen (Commission); Mr Terwingen; Mr Terwingen; Mr Terwingen; Mr Terwingen; Mr Terwingen; Mr Terwingen; Mr Terwingen; Mr Terwingen; Mr Terwingen; Mr Terwingen; Mr Terwingen; Mr Terwingen; Mr Terwingen; Mr Terwingen; Mr Terwingen; Mr Terwingen; Mr Terwingen; Mr Terwingen;
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-14-54-commissie-ic688x.u75	Mr President, Minister, the press reported on various police areas that were not assured of having sufficient blood tests for the BOB campaign last weekend - when I wrote my question. Blood tests are used for drivers who are drunk or who are under the influence of drugs. The police can normally order the necessary tubes through the Ministry of Justice, but the order contract which allows it expired on April 20th. The SPF Justice confirms that there are "administrative slows", but hopes to have completed a new contract by July. Can the Deputy Prime Minister overturn or confirm this information? What are the police areas affected by this situation? Could this problem have been avoided? What is the procedure in this respect? Are any measures envisaged in the future to prevent this kind of situation from happening again? How many blood tests are still available? How much are we planning to buy? What budget has been released for this purpose? Could you give me an overview of the total number of checks carried out during this BOB campaign last weekend, depending on the time, the day of the week and the place? Thank you for your answers, Mr. Jambon.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-14-54-commissie-ic688x.u76	Mr Kir, we do not have an inventory of tests in the various local police areas and in the traffic units of the Federal Police. But the road police told me that from the moment I announced the BOB campaign, things were managed; some areas had too many tests and each area was able to get them. The Minister responsible for this matter is the Minister of Justice. I'll send you the information from the highway police. They were able to solve the problem. Some police areas had to deal with stock failures but had redistributed surplus stocks. With regard to the BOB campaign, the figures are being processed and the results have yet to be encoded by the police. The BOB campaign started this weekend and continues until September.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-14-54-commissie-ic688x.u77	Minister, thank you already for these first elements of the answer. I will interview the Minister of Justice to see why there has been a market failure. You reassure me by telling me that a solution could be found with the road police who distributed the tests, in a balanced way, to the police areas.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-14-54-commissie-ic688x.u78	As far as I forgot to say just now, questions Nos. Mrs Jadin's 19124, 19158 and 19169 are converted into written questions. The same applies to Question No 5, by Mr De Gucht, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-14-54-commissie-ic688x.u79	Mr President, the question had already been asked in part by my colleague, Mrs Caprasse. It was at that time in view of the "next" summit. It is obvious that there is a small uchrony in the title of the question, if we take it on that date. Minister, we know that there was an impressive police deployment for the NATO Summit and the arrival of the President of the United States on 24 May. It is also known that there has been a bad mood within the police services and especially among the trade union delegations, because the pre-risk assessment meeting was held very late, almost on the eve of all the events related to this important law enforcement and police deployment operation, and that there has been controversy. The analysis that was put forward to justify the short delay in convening and holding this meeting shortly before the arrival of the President of the United States was that you needed to know the entire course or activities of the President of the United States and other authorities present at the NATO Summit, before you could complete the risk analysis. Nevertheless, it was known that relatively large events would take place at this NATO Summit and that therefore, risk analysis could even be done a little earlier. Minister, do you think that the risk analysis could have been carried out correctly and completely and that the unions could have known about it with sufficient time to make an assessment? The next question is almost a question of statistics. As always, there is always a debate about the number of police officers involved and who contributes to the formation of these law enforcement forces. Apart from Brussels police areas, how many platoons have been trained by other police areas in the country? Could you please give details of this Region by Region, or even police area by police area? How many platoons have been trained from the federal police? From which services or units in particular have they been? Has there been a refusal by some police areas to participate in the solidarity effort to provide staff? If so, what were the reasons, if any, for this, in your opinion or in the opinion of the directors-coordinators who, in principle, are responsible for ensuring that the mortgaged capacities are properly executed by the different police areas? Have we gone so far as to mobilize, as has been suggested, aspirants inspectors or commissioners? If so, for which specific missions? Has there been, as in the past, any problems with the equipment of certain units? I understand that, in the Brussels police areas, the equipment is assumed collectively for such events. This may not yet be the case for certain police areas further away from the usual places of protest. I read in the press a few union reactions, which suggested that certain areas or federal police services were underequipped. Finally, do you have an estimate of the cost of these policing operations and extraordinary benefits, both from the federal police budget and from the police zone budget? It may be more difficult for you to answer this question in view of the temporal proximity of this event. It is therefore possible that I may ask you for details in a written question. It appears that the benefits of several staff members lasted forty-one hours. This is not entirely in line with the "Mammouth" law. But, in exceptional circumstances, exceptional service!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-14-54-commissie-ic688x.u80	Mr Maingain, for your last question on the actual cost, the calculation has not yet been made. On the other hand, I have already mentioned on several occasions the budget that had been programmed. With regard to your first question, which concerns risk analysis, I must tell you first of all that everything has gone very well. I was often asked what I thought about Mr Trump's coming: was she not going to create a lot of problems? For my part, I feared much more the presence of Mr. Erdogan than that of Mr. Trump with his cohort of protection agents. I'm not talking politically! Erdogan's been a little out of his program... Anyway, everything went very well. Yes, we were also informed by the local police areas of two planned demonstrations. The first, which took place the previous day, took place in the North. We had estimated the number of demonstrators at ten thousand. Finally, there were nine thousand. On the same day, the second took place in the Peace Village around NATO – with about two hundred demonstrators. As a result, no demonstrations were held without prior information. Therefore, everything has been included in the risk analysis. The other five Brussels police zones provided 280 police officers in support of the Brussels-Capital police zone at the NATO Summit on 24 May and 244 police officers on 25 May. Outside the Brussels police zones, the following support was provided to the Brussels-Capital-Ixelles police zone: on 24 May, 464 police officers from the Wallonia police zones and 835 police officers from the Flanders police zones; on 25 May, 506 police officers from the Wallonia police zones and 689 police officers from the Flanders police zones. I have here a table showing the units of the federal police and the number of police officers; it will be given to you. On 24 May, 1,078 police officers from the various units of the Federal Police and, by 25 May, 1,206 police officers were mentioned. All police areas have made a remarkable effort to ensure that all the required reinforcements are provided. Less than ten police areas were unable to provide some of the required reinforcement for various reasons: lack of equipment or training, other important events in their territory. In total, only 30 police officers were not provided as a result of an inability to provide the requested support. The equipment available to police officers is consistent with the nature of the mission to be carried out. In addition, during the months leading up to Trump's visit to the NATO Summit, several acquisitions in terms of equipment and equipment were made. Federal police vehicles are not subject to technical inspection. However, the federal police have the vast majority of their vehicles at the same pace as those of individuals, for the sake of safety for both police and other road users. Federal police vehicles are in order for all users to be safe. In other words, a technical check was not carried out specifically for the NATO Summit.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-14-54-commissie-ic688x.u81	Minister, thank you for that specific answer. I would point out immediately in the statistics that the intervention force does not even pay 50% of the federal police's benefits. I know there are special units. The road police are very involved in such circumstances, for escorts. And there are other services such as dog support and, of course, the DSU. This still proves that the capacity of the intervention force has decreased considerably. This is not a recent fact. I always say: it is not your responsibility alone. I am well aware that there is a reflection with a view to re-establishing a more extensive intervention force, which I believe is indispensable. Indeed, the efforts to be made by the country's police areas to deal with this shortage of personnel within the Federal Police Task Force are considerable.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-14-54-commissie-ic688x.u82	Mr Minister, at our committee on 7 June, I asked you about the incident on Friday 12 May, at around 7.30 p.m., on the ENC's BR2 reactor in Mol, which had stopped because of a power outage caused by a lightning strike. You will agree with me that a lightning strike is an a priori banal event in order to bring a nuclear reactor to a halt. As I already told you at this meeting, I learned that another incident had occurred on 28 May, but it was not communicated until 6 June, the day before the previous committee. The BR2 has again stopped, also due to a power outage, it seems, caused again by a thunderstorm. It was decided not to restart the BR2 nuclear reactor. Chairperson: Karin Temmerman.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-14-54-commissie-ic688x.u83	Several questions come to mind, ten in all to be precise. In my question, they are numbered. What exactly happened on May 28th? To what is the emergency arrest linked? Were there any assurances that the reactor could be restarted after the first incident, since a second occurred? What has been put in place or will be put in place to ensure that the operation of the reactor is no longer dependent on a future storm? Was this incident also classified as Level 1? If so, why? To return to the first incident, by your answer, we learned that it was graded to Level 1 because the emergency generator had not started as it had to. Admit that this situation is not very reassuring! If the trigger was other than lightning, a much more serious incident could have occurred if the emergency generator did not respond positively when it was needed. What analysis do the operator and the AFCN make of this situation? What are the causes of correct non-starting of the generator? Did the same problem occur on May 28th? What has been put in place to prevent this from happening again? Does the BR2 have a single emergency generator? When was the last test on the BR2 generator or generators? What did these famous tests indicate? Shouldn't there be an urgent strengthening of the controls and tests on all generators in all nuclear installations?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-14-54-commissie-ic688x.u84	Mr Nollet, as in the first incident on 12 May, part of the installation was the victim of a power outage. This power failure necessitated the shutdown of the research reactor. This power failure was caused by a storm that caused disturbances on the external power grid and the unexpected failure of automatic start-up of diesel backup generators.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-14-54-commissie-ic688x.u85	Regarding your second question, in the first incident on 12 May, the installation was struck by lightning, which would have triggered the stop. Between this first incident and the reboot, diesel generators were tested, which proved to be positive. Based on this data, there was no reason not to restart the installation. It was only later, during the operator's investigation, that it appeared that lightning had probably fallen on the external electricity grid. With regard to your third question, in both cases the event did not have an impact on man and the environment, and the available protection barriers were still sufficient to justify the classification of these events at level 0 on the INES scale. In this respect, we can add that the BR2 reactor has been designed so that the installation can be safely brought back without using external power or diesel generators. However, a single event simultaneously resulted in the loss of external power supply and the unexpected failure of the start-up of diesel backup generators. This dual failure, initiated by a common cause, is a factor which, in the INES classification system, has led to an increase in the ranking of the two incidents at INES level 1.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-14-54-commissie-ic688x.u86	Are both well at INES 1 level?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-14-54-commissie-ic688x.u87	Yes! The events taken separately are at level 0, but as they are taken together, they are at level INES 1. Regarding your fourth question, following two events, the operator was asked to investigate the underlying causes. This investigation is under way and the nuclear safety authorities will examine it critically. For your fifth question, the operator's investigation into the failure of the start-up was discussed with the nuclear safety authorities on 30 May. This would be a problem in the frequency detection relay. Sixthly, the two judgments appear to have been caused by a similar event, and in both cases their conduct has been broadly the same. Seventh, after the occurrence of 28 May, the reactor was not restarted and the operator was asked to justify, before the next scheduled cycle in July, that such an event could no longer occur. Changes or replacements may be required. For your eighth question, the BR2 has three diesels, two of which must be in hot standby condition when operating the reactor. It should be noted that the events do not concern a failure of one or more diesels but the connection of diesels to the internal electricity grid! For your ninth question, the proper operation of diesel and the connection of diesel to the internal electricity grid are tested before each start-up. This test must be positive so that the reactors can be started. Finally, as soon as all the necessary data are available, it will be possible to draw all the necessary lessons from these events. On the basis of the data already available, there is no indication that urgent action should be taken in relation to other nuclear facilities.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-14-54-commissie-ic688x.u88	Thank you, minister, but before I react, I note first that the analysis is still under way. Do you have any idea of the calendar, just so I don't come back... can I come back to it again before the holidays, just to take stock?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-14-54-commissie-ic688x.u89	Yes, yes! I hope... but if I indicate a date now, it'll only be a base.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-14-54-commissie-ic688x.u90	I'll ask you a series of questions later, when we have the results of the analysis. Nevertheless, on the INES 1 ranking, I understand that the first event had been classified INES 1 – that was your answer last week – while the second one is classified INES 0, whereas it is exactly the same. But as we complete and say we're going to analyze both in the same way, in fine, it's INES 1. I am, however, surprised that the same incident leads first to an INES 1, and second, for a second incident, to an INES 0. Well, what's important, in the end, is that it's INES 1 for both, and I'll take note of it. But I'm a little surprised that at first it was classified as INES 0 while the other it was automatically in INES 1. Some elements are, however, more challenging. You are right to say that the BR2 is designed to be stopped without having to call the emergency generator. But still! It is the mechanics itself that today is questionable, since the connection of the emergency generators to the nuclear power plant was called into question, twice in a very short time, by the lightning of a simple thunderstorm. This is likely to be part of the analysis conducted by the AFCN and the operator. I am linking up with one of my previous questions: are there not any lessons to be learned for all situations of generator triggering on all nuclear installations? Of course, I am targeting full-power nuclear power plants. Generators are tested regularly. We talked about it a few months ago following questions on this subject. But if we realize today that, in fact, the generators are working, but that the connection of the generators is not working, we are potentially faced with very serious problems when this type of incident, namely a storm (which is very commonplace) occurs near the nuclear power plants. I can only invite those who are currently carrying out the analysis to examine the connection carefully and to test it in a near real situation to see if the same frequency relay problems that you have pointed to arise. It is still surprising that the BR2 was revived with the certainty that everything would work, but that a few days later, the same incident led to the same breakdown. As you may know, I will come back to this issue once the full analysis will allow us to see more clearly.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-14-54-commissie-ic688x.u91	Mr Minister, I would like to go back to our exchange last week in committee because I think it is very problematic and very serious. On this occasion, I asked you about the results of the tests carried out on the Tihange 2 reactor. In particular, you said that "70 additional cracks had been discovered". Since then, I have been able to read various information and I would like to ask you more about it. How many additional cracks have been discovered on Doel 3? Do you confirm that 300 additional cracks have been discovered on Doel 3? Do you confirm that the 70 cracks discovered on the walls of the Tihange 2 reactor were based not on an analysis of the entire tank but on a partial analysis, which, unless I am mistaken, you did not communicate to me last week? Do you confirm that the comparison between the results of the 2014 and 2017 studies was made not on all the cracks listed in 2014, but on one sample, on only one part? What was the size of the comparison sample for Tihange 2? For how many cracks has evolution been compared? It appears that only 620 cracks were compared, whereas 3,649 cracks were recorded at Tihange 2? Is it correct or do you have another number to give us to get an idea of the size of the comparison sample for Tihange 2? Similarly, for Doel 3, what was the size of the comparison sample, i.e. the number of cracks whose evolution was compared? At Doel 3, were all cracks compared? Or, again, was only one sample taken? Minister, we need to make all the clarity. I know that the Federal Agency is going to relativize, as always in this case, saying that it is the camera that has changed its position. We have had this debate, but it is not the one I want to lead here. What I want is the precise figures for each of the points I'm asking you about. I don't want to repeat last week's debate. I suggest you go straight to the goal, straight to the point!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-14-54-commissie-ic688x.u92	Mr Minister, I will not repeat the questions and the introduction, but have a small addition. You are probably aware of the fact that yesterday there was another debate in the House of Representatives in the Netherlands and that the Dutch Minister for Infrastructure and the Environment, Mrs Schultz van Haegen, replied that she would ask you and the FANC to come and explain in the House of Representatives. The countries around us therefore take matters seriously. In addition, a major demonstration will be held in the Euregio on 25 June to strengthen the demand for immediate closure of the Tidenge 2 nuclear reactor. I'll give you that as additional information. I understand, but perhaps that is not correct, that the discovery of the new cracks is explained by the use of adapted test methods and new test conditions. Can it be said that the additional cracks that have now been discovered were already there in 2014? Can you explain more about the adapted inspection techniques and the parameters used? If they are indeed new test methods, why weren't they used in the initial tests? Has there already been a response to the questions from the Netherlands and Germany? Is there a response and/or answer to the question of your Dutch colleague from the Environment?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-14-54-commissie-ic688x.u93	Colleagues, it is important to recall that no new indications were detected during the inspections carried out in November 2016 on the Doel 3 tank and in April 2017 on the Tihange 2 tank. In answer to question No 18408, I pointed out that some indications had exceeded the rating threshold. In no case are these new indications of hydrogen microbulles but very small defects which, during these new inspections and for various reasons, reflect UT signals more strongly than in previous inspections. More than 300 additional indications in Target 3 and 70 additional indications in Tihange 2 exceeded the threshold for notation during the new inspections carried out in 2016 and 2017, respectively. During the inspection in 2014, the indications were indeed present, but the ultrasonic signals they reflected were too weak to exceed the defined threshold in the acceptance criteria and to consider the signal as an indication of deviations. Due to certain variations in the inspection conditions, those indications only exceeded the threshold for notation at the latest new inspections. At the same time, other indications have evolved in the opposite direction and are now below the threshold of detection, previously not. Statistically, the gauss curve has not shifted, but remains the same. A number of earlier indications have been raised by, among other things, the measurement method above the threshold, a number of others have fallen below it. Since all new reported hydrogen suspended flakes can be scientifically explained or can be found in signals recorded during previous inspections, the analysis of the results allowed to conclude that no new hydrogen flakes have appeared and that there is also no evolution in the extent of hydrogen flakes already detected. There are therefore no new findings. What the FANC wishes to point out explicitly is that the procedure of characterising the indications of hydrogen flakes using a non-destructive method, i.e. via ultrasonic waves, is an experimental technique, the results of which vary between the different measurements. The accuracy is so dependent on different parameters, including the focus of the machine, the thickness of the vessel, the location of the deviation and properties such as the temperature of the water in the reactor. So a number of parameters are fixed, but a number of other parameters, such as the temperature of the water, vary. This indicates the possible statistical change. The procedure of the new inspection becomes even more complex, because it is a real challenge to place that machine exactly at the same starting point at each new inspection. As a result, there are slight variations in the characteristics of all detected hydrogen flakes in the reactor vessels after each inspection, due to the technique and location of the measurement. It is a phenomenon recognised by experts in the field of detection of abnormalities via ultrasonic waves that defines strict criteria to determine whether or not a variation in the magnitude of an indication of a deviation is representative of the actual evolution of the magnitude of the deviation. It means that for the same deviation, the figures which characterise its size and slope may differ slightly from the results obtained during the previous inspections. As requested, here's a little more detail. For Doel 3, no new fault indication was detected. However, just over 250 additional indications have recently exceeded the rating threshold during the new inspections conducted in 2016. We must therefore speak of additional indications, not of new cracks. Furthermore, to be complete, at Doel 3, about 50 other signals were detected and could be classified as detection artifacts on the basis of in-depth analysis of their reflected UT signals, whose characteristics do not correspond to hydrogen microbulles. The results made public for the new inspection of the Tihange 2 tank come from the analysis of a sample of fault indications containing all the most penalizing deficiencies. This partial study must be completed by ENGIE Electrabel before September. In this way, the examination of the indications of hydrogen microbulbs will be completed. Inspections carried out by means of an ultrasonic fault characterisation technique are carried out in two stages: first, on the basis of a sample, prior to the possible restart of the reactors; then, in a definitive manner, on the totality of the defects. In the case of Tihange 2, ENGIE Electrabel will have to provide, by September at the latest, the results of the complete analysis of the indications of hydrogen microbulles. In order to ensure safety, the Safety Authority and ENGIE Electrabel have carefully defined the sample of microbulbs to be examined in the partial assessment. It contains all the microbulls – the largest, the most inclined and the most penalizing for the calculation of structural integrity of reactor tanks. The safety authority collected 619 microbulb indications. For Doel 3, the results of the full analysis are available. This means that all the fault indications have been examined one by one. They fully confirmed those of the partial analysis. In view of the indications that have recently exceeded the rating threshold, 13,625 defects meet the non-assessment criteria. On the basis of these results from the FANC no objections to the further exploitation of Objective 3 or Tihange 2. The FANC and ENGIE Electrabel continue to follow the cockpit. Our neighbouring countries and foreign regulators are informed through existing channels, such as the FANC website. However, the results of the inspections were also explained in detail during normal bilateral meetings with the French, Swiss and German security authorities. The FANC has wide powers to take measures, including the decommissioning of installations. It will not hesitate to take these measures if there is only the smallest indication that they might be needed, which I repeat is not the case now. In that case, of course, it will have my full support. Over the past year, the FANC has been shown to give the green light on several occasions only when it has been clearly demonstrated that the necessary safety margins are being respected. The FANC is internationally registered as a strong, reliable and transparent regulator. It is for this reason that I have always advocated close cooperation and good communication between our regulators during my contacts with fellow ministers abroad. In recent years, cooperation with the Netherlands has been greatly intensified. We have concluded an agreement with Germany at ministerial level establishing a German-Belgian nuclear committee. That committee officially met for the first time on 7 and 8 June 2017. With our neighbouring countries The Netherlands and France and with some other countries, such as Switzerland, the FANC has maintained very good contacts for years. FANC experts are active in European and international fora, with a strong appreciation of their expertise and transparency. I received a letter from Mrs Schultz today. She doesn't ask me to go there. It simply gives us a report of the debate that took place yesterday and points out that the subject is still alive in the Dutch Parliament. However, it did not ask for this in that letter. Maybe another one will follow. I don't know. However, I have just pointed out that we also carry out cross-checks with the Netherlands. We announce it when the FANC makes an inspection and invite the Dutch to do so. They know that, for it is told to them. They may also ask for inspections at any time and may also ask for the results of studies we have carried out. We are showing the greatest possible transparency in this area. However, Mrs Temmerman, you know as well as I do that it is enough to make some noise about nuclear safety to cause immediate unrest. It is always much more difficult to disclose to the public the rebuttal of such claims. Moreover, in a Parliament where there is no majority at the moment and which is still seeking a majority, much is possible. That's what we've been through here.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-14-54-commissie-ic688x.u94	Minister, I can't follow you, especially when you say that the AFCN has always made decisions that were sure, some, and never gave a green light when it didn't have all the elements to be reassured. Do I have to remind you that these same Doel 3 and Tihange 2 power plants had to be shut down as a matter of urgency when AFCN had given its green light, because in fact AFCN had not checked everything at the time? For months, additional tests had to be carried out. Before reopening them permanently, the AFCN had already given a green light, which was premature, as they acknowledged. And it was immediately decided to close these plants. Don't say that AFCN always gives the green light by being sure of what it does!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-14-54-commissie-ic688x.u95	I'll say that! I still say that the AFCN has an impeccable international reputation, and that I support it. I don't appreciate your attacks on AFCN. International experts, during each AFCN audit, give it a more than satisfactory assessment. I don't appreciate you systematically attacking AFCN!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-14-54-commissie-ic688x.u96	I have to answer. It is not true that I am systematically attacking AFCN. Take my answers and my previous questions: sometimes I say that the AFCN has responded well. But when it doesn't go well, I have to say it too. I understand that you are still behind this agency, but you cannot say that from an international point of view, everything is always positive for AFCN. We have received, in Parliament's nuclear safety subcommittee, the former head of the German nuclear gendarmerie. Did you read about the AFCN? He claims that the German authority would never have agreed to revive Doel 3 and Tihange 2. That has been said here in Parliament. I'm not making it up. Don't say everyone thinks the AFCN is doing a wonderful job, all the time! In relation to the facts that I mentioned here – I no longer have the exact date – that is, the analysis, first of all, of the cracks...
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-14-54-commissie-ic688x.u97	The former head of a security agency, not having all the information, can say anything! It was AFCN and control by this American institution that did the analysis based on accurate data. They all agreed in the same direction. You may take the statements of this former official seriously; I don't!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-14-54-commissie-ic688x.u98	This person analyzed the information provided by the AFCN. You can't disqualify her like you do now. It's too easy. What is more, you yourself know, that one of the experts appointed by the AFCN refused to agree to the conclusions. He had access to all the documents. Not just those you agree to make public. And he did not want to follow the line defended by the AFCN. We've had this debate before. The only thing I wanted to say was that the Federal Agency itself had to reconsider its position. I don't have the exact date anymore. First, she gave a green light, then she had to force a stop in order for further tests to be carried out. This is a disavowal of the way the Agency works. She does it herself. Let us turn now to the other elements of your answer. You confirm that on Doel 3, there are 250 additional indications in which we have exceeded the rating threshold. In other words, in the past, 250 locations had been identified by the cameras but had not been considered sufficient to be notified. Today, 250 indications, previously below the rating threshold, are now above this threshold. We're told, "It's the camera that's not placed in the same way." If it wasn't placed the same way, minister, you wouldn't have spotted the crack below the scoring threshold!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-14-54-commissie-ic688x.u99	There are so many phenomena which were above the standards and which, with this new measure, are below the standards, and this can be explained.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-14-54-commissie-ic688x.u100	Is that not an issue for you as a methodology?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-14-54-commissie-ic688x.u101	I propose that at the meetings of the nuclear safety sub-committee the specialists be present because I believe that the problem is too important. I trust the results. You do not have – yet – trust, but you can exploit elements that technicians can explain. I'm not a technician, but I don't want to play with nuclear power plant safety. I am based on the results of the institutions that I appreciate. I don't have an element that allows me not to trust them. As I said, the subject is too important to be dealt with in a political game; I do not want to. I therefore propose that this item be dealt with in the nuclear safety sub-committee, with the technicians who can give you all the information, give you their interpretation of the difference in standards, and see if their explanations are on the road. I do not think that this should be the subject of political games, it is too important.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-14-54-commissie-ic688x.u102	I would like to thank the President for allowing us to have this dialogue because the point is important, as the minister said. I want to make it clear to the minister that I accept his proposal, which is the right way forward on this issue. We must convene the nuclear safety sub-committee and put this item on the agenda. Indeed, we must make this clear. I have no appreciation for the AFCN. I have questions that remain outstanding because how can we trust a methodology that tells us that cracks have been detected but that at some point they are larger and then smaller? We're told it's because the camera isn't positioned the same way. We wouldn't have spotted the same cracks. Let us have this debate in the subcommittee! I agree with you, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-14-54-commissie-ic688x.u103	It is not only a matter of camera position but also a matter of water temperature. Several elements can cause a physical reaction. Specialists say that this can explain one thing or the other. Statistically, we remain with the same curve. So there is no displacement of the curve.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-14-54-commissie-ic688x.u104	Mr Nollet, may I ask you to conclude briefly. Your colleague Mrs Temmerman also has the right to reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-14-54-commissie-ic688x.u105	I note the figure of 250 for Doel 3. With regard to Tihange 2, you confirm that this is a partial sample and that of the 3,149 cracks, 619 were taken into account for the evaluation and that it is necessary to wait until September, which is a bit long. I invite you to organize the sub-committee before that date. The ratio between 619 and 3,149 gives a result equal to 20%. We will certainly receive figures other than that of 70 identified. I apologize to my colleague for interacting with the minister, but, as he said himself, we were on a very important subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-14-54-commissie-ic688x.u106	No problem, Mr Nollet. I share the view that this issue is too important to play political games. I do appreciate, Minister, that you say that you have this explained in the Nuclear Safety Sub-Committee by the specialists with a word and a reply. After all, I am certainly not a specialist myself. It's true, of course. As soon as something happens about nuclear safety, nuclear power, the people are alerted. That is not surprising when one sees the consequences. Then we must be able to follow all possible safety provisions and regulations. I would like to say a few words about the matter in the Netherlands. It is true that a number of things are possible if there is no government. A number of other things are not possible. It is true that everyone speaks more freely. You should look into the debate. It is perhaps useful to do a little more with regard to the countries around us than just to invite the specialists and the minister. I've been to Borssele myself recently. The concern about Borssele itself but also about Doel is very great, rightly so. The same applies here with our people. We are the representatives of this. There is a great deal of concern there.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-14-54-commissie-ic688x.u107	I am aware of this. I was in Berlin two weeks ago with our ambassador on the scene. We have agreed to communicate with the population in Aachen and surroundings. He himself went to provide a number of elements. I am aware that more is needed than just acting at ministerial level or speaking to specialists. Especially when it comes to Germany, there is a great deal of pressure from the municipal councils or the Länder parliament. There we will communicate more, not just at the level of ministers.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-14-54-commissie-ic688x.u108	Mr President, Minister, there have been frequent large-scale fighting in Denderleeuw in recent months. In a few weeks there have been several serious incidents in the station district. Last week, about 80 young people were beaten there. This is a problem which has been going on for some time and which cannot be dealt with locally. In addition, as is the case in a number of other places, the police area is not filled in all vacancies. Legally, the police zone Denderleeuw-Haaltert has a minimum of 65 places. However, the corps is undermanned. In the past, the area itself has provided a budget for five additional agents, for a district post, but these places are also not filled in in practice. My first question is a more general one, because staff shortages will not only be a problem for that police area. It is, of course, difficult to attract people to fill out the vacancies. What measures do you take to promote job vacancies with the police so that they are filled out as effectively as possible? My second question is specifically about the problems of the station neighborhoods, not just about Denderleeuw. Probably moving gangs from one station neighborhood to another to make amok. What measures are being taken by the federal police to support local police in tackling such mass fighting? Are you thinking, for example, of temporarily sending a number of people from the federal police to the Denderleeuw-Haaltert police area in this particular case, or can other measures be taken to address this problem?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-14-54-commissie-ic688x.u109	Mr President, Mrs Pas, on the basis of the information I have received from the Chief Constable of the Denderleeuw-Haaltert Police Zone, I can tell you that the problems you are talking about must be dealt with by the local police area. That's what the law says. If the local police zone considers that this phenomenon exceeds its capacity, because the vacancies are not fully filled or because the phenomenon is too important, it can call on the federal reserve. It's never the other way around. If riots occur at Denderleeuw's station and I don't think the local police are handling it properly, I can't decide to send the federal cavalry to solve it in her place. It's not like that. It is the local police who commands such actions and who determines whether they can do it or not. If she can't handle it, she'll call in the federal reserve. As far as the police area of Denderleeuw-Haaltert is concerned, in order to fill the staff shortage as quickly as possible, six places of police detectives were appointed. We can reasonably assume that these places can be filled in by the end of this year. Aspirant mobility means that people who come from the schools go to those places as a priority. The remaining vacant places are opened up through normal mobility, with the zone depending on the interest of candidates. Our responsibility is to ensure an offer of candidates. The local zone also has a role to play in this, and that is the attraction. At the moment, demand is greater than supply. The schools are full, and every month, people are graduating. As a result of the Channel Plan, for example, before they started training, we told a number of candidates that they would be deployed as soon as they graduate. Others can, so to speak, almost choose once they have graduated. If the offer exceeds the number of candidates, a local zone itself has the responsibility to be attractive to those involved. As for the problems to which you refer, this year three thefts were recorded by force at Denderleeuw's station. One more fact requires an unsub to be identified. With repeat large-scale violent riots, you are likely to refer to an incident on 3 June 2017, requiring police intervention in the station district. That police intervention was then asked for a mutual dispute between young people who had participated in a football tournament and another group of young people. When the police arrived, most of them fled. Fifteen people were identified. Only one of them comes from Denderleeuw. Turns out he had nothing to do with the facts. At the level of the police zone Denderleeuw-Haaltert, the necessary measures were provided for. Every day there is a patrol of the local police at the station for eight hours. There are frequent anonymous patrols. A renewal of the 54 cameras of SNCB and the eight cameras of the municipality of Denderleeuw is planned at the station. A neighbourhood information network was recently established. There's direct contact with the neighborhood to gain information. Regular consultations have been held for years with all the actors involved around the station district, namely the municipality, the police, SNCB, Securail and so on. As the problems do not only arise at the Denderleeuw station, the chiefs of the surrounding areas have agreed on a more intensive exchange of information and a direct lateral support. Police asked Securail and SNCB's train staff to observe their signal function very actively in the event of problems with young people hanging around. As already mentioned, the local police are competent and autonomous. She can always decide to submit an application to the federal police through the director of coordination, the DirCo. Then there are several possibilities. There is the HyCap mechanism, there is the temporary reinforcement of staff or another very specific aid application, such as the deployment of special units of the helicopter, of dogs, of horses, of sprayers and so on. This question will then be analysed at the federal level and the support will or will not be provided. At the moment no application was made by Denderleeuw. That's the way it works. The local police can best evaluate the local situation and see if they can handle it. If she can't handle it, then there's the federal police to provide support. In cases such as those described here, I will certainly ensure that sufficient reinforcement can be provided if there is an aid application.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-14-54-commissie-ic688x.u110	Mr President, I would like to thank the Minister for his reply and his clarification. I am pleased to hear that the local corps are now exchanging more information and providing direct lateral support. After all, it is not limited to the Denderleeuw railway station district. You cited the facts of 3 June. A few days later there was a big fight between young people of African origin and another gang at the station of Aalst. There have already been major fights at the stations of Lembeek, Halle and Ninove. It's probably about a gang moving around that provokes the fights. It certainly transcends local problems. You have made it quite clear that no aid application has yet been received and that you are prepared to accept it as soon as it comes in. That is a very important element and I thank you for this answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-06-14-54-commissie-ic688x.u111	Debates of the European Parliament 18939 by Mr Vandenput is postponed.
