ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-18-54-commissie-ic716x.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, I propose that we begin our work. As announced and proposed a while ago, this morning we will have an exchange of views on the international polar station. Madam Secretary of State, I think you have a presentation to make, the title of which is La Pax Antarctica. So here's our menu. Mrs. Gerkens told me she'd be a little late. This is a joint meeting of the Committees on the Economy and Public Health. I propose the following operation. The Secretary of State will present us with the agreement reached, after which colleagues who wish to do so will be able to speak. Some colleagues also have attached questions to ask. We will see whether the debate will have been able to answer this question and whether or not it is maintained in oral or written form. Each author will take a position on the matter. A full account of the discussions will be completed very quickly. I now give the floor to the Secretary of State to present her case.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-18-54-commissie-ic716x.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am very happy to be here today. Many of you have asked questions about the future of the pool base in recent months, when I took office. I have always said that I will do my best to ensure the future of the polar base and certainly the scientific work that is being done there. That is why I said that I would do my best to find a solution. We have reached a solution. We've been able to sign a deal. I have the deal with it so that those Members who wish to do so can come and see the deal. I shall begin with a brief comment on the history of the file. We were in a situation where it was impossible to operate in the pool base. In 2007, the IPF and the Belgian State had decided to build a South Pole base and therefore concluded an agreement. The IPF donated a 999th part of 1 000 to the Belgian State and the IPF would be responsible for maintenance and operation. In 2008 the donation will be made into a law and the Pool Secretariat will also be established. In 2009, a Royal Decree will be issued laying down the rules governing the management of the Pool Secretariat with a joint membership on the Policy Council. From 2012-2013, the relationship between the Belgian State and the IPF deteriorated. In 2015, the situation had escalated. A new royal decree was written by my predecessor who changed the rules for managing the pool secretariat. As a result, the IPF was no longer an exclusive operator. There was also a change in the policy council. As you all know, at the beginning of March, when I was only Secretary of State, the Council of State decided that the royal decision on the composition of the 2015 Policy Council was illegal. The Belgian State was fined 5 000 euros a day. That is why I immediately made a new royal decision, with a new composition of the policy council, as imposed by the law. Meanwhile, some 35 legal proceedings had been initiated. The Belgian State already paid EUR 700 000 in court fees. In 2016, the campaign on the polar basis was not able to continue, to great disappointment, rightly, from the scientific world. As I said, the Council of State had meanwhile destroyed the royal decree, so the situation has been frozen for the past year and a half, or the past two years. Sometimes it is a good thing that someone takes up the function to look at the file from a different and perhaps fresher angle. We therefore immediately sat down around the table. I think it was very important for us to talk to the different partners. We have been very intensively engaged in the last three months. We negotiated intensively for three months. The most important thing is to build trust between the parties (the Belgian State and the International Polar Foundation), which is currently lacking. Over the last three months, we have worked hard on this trust. The objective was threefold. First of all, we wanted to restore confidence. Sometimes it takes a little to restore confidence. So that took three months. Secondly, we wanted to put an end to all disputes. We want to end all conflicts. At the same time, we want to set up a new structure for the future. This new structure must ensure the future of the pool base. The importance of scientific research is paramount, also because many countries have looked at what Belgium was doing with the polar base at international level. The sudden disappearance of the campaign and the fighting were not good for the image of Belgium. The result after three months of negotiations is the conclusion of a settlement of all legal disputes over the 35 procedures. An overview of all procedures is given in the Annex to the agreement. The removal letters for the courts are also included in the settlement. It was also agreed that the Belgian State would be given full ownership of the pool base. You know one thousandth came to the IPF. The IPF made a donation. I would point out that this is a one thousandth donation to the Belgian State. As a result, the Belgian State is now the full owner of the pool base. In the settlement, the pool base is brought under a new structure, a new ivzw. That new Ivzw was already in the coalition agreement. In return, the IPF will receive maintenance and operation for this year and the next five years. After that five years an extension of three years is possible. After that period, it is planned that a public tender will be launched. The Council of Ministers approved that agreement on 30 June 2017. In the next few weeks and months, the various elements will be further dealt with, such as the drafting of royal decrees and the establishment of the Ivzw. I would therefore like to address the various parts of the agreement today. Let's start with the deal. The following cases have been agreed between the Belgian State and the IPF. All pending legal disputes will be brought to an end. This settlement has been negotiated and signed by all parties. You know that there were 35 legal disputes with a total claim of EUR 15 million. In the agreement, whereby the parties to each other definitively and irrevocably renounce any legal action, we agreed that an amount of EUR 4.5 million will be paid to the IPF, in the end of all accounts. An amount of two million has already been paid out of the Pool Secretariat's reserve at the time of signature of the settlement. A second disc of 2.5 million euros will be paid at the end of October 2017 from the interdepartmental commission. The settlement also establishes ownership of the Pool Base. The Belgian State used to own 999/1000 and now also receives the remaining thousandth transferred by the IPF. That makes the Belgian State the full owner. Article 5 of the agreement also states that the Belgian State will establish a new structure, an international non-profit association to manage the Pole base. The name was debated for a long time. We have decided to name the new ivzw Pool Institute. We chose an Ivzw because the management of a base in Antarctica is something completely different from a classic government administration. It therefore deserves a specific management structure. The aim of an ivzw is also that other governments or scientific institutions can be involved in the basis. We start with members designated by the federal government and the Belgian majority also remains insured at all times in the Ivzw. That is so enshrined in the statutes. There are no members of the private sector in the Ivzw. That is a big difference from the current structure of the Pool Secretariat. For foreign members, it will now also be clear who is the interlocutor for the pool base. The Ivzw will have a board of directors. The Management Board will consist of three to eight members, all with an unpaid mandate. It is important to underline that the members of the Management Board will not be paid. Because we keep the private sector out of it, we set up three advisory committees. The first is the Scientific Committee. The scientific community was right to be concerned at the beginning, because it did not know whether the Pool Secretariat and the work on the polar basis would still be discussed. From the beginning we said that we would definitely involve them, because it would be silly not to do so. There will therefore be three advisory committees, in addition to the Management Board with three to eight members. The first is therefore the Scientific Committee, which must allow the scientific community to be involved and ensure that scientific quality is monitored. We will work closely with the Belgian National Committee for Antarctic Research. There will also be an advisory committee of the private sector, because several companies are interested in Antarctic research and want to cooperate in one way or another. They can be involved in the basics through such an advisory committee for the private sector. Commercially, that can of course always be interesting for us. In addition, an audit committee will be set up to ensure transparent and clear financial management. A government commissioner will, of course, be appointed to monitor the interests of the federal government. In the past articles have been published in the press with all kinds of reproaches over and over again. However, if we look today at who is to manage this pool base, I believe that we will be able to get to the IPF anyway. Since the IPF grants the full ownership of the pool base to the Belgian State, its role in relation to the base changes fundamentally. After all, it no longer owns, not even for a thousandth. That is also good, because it is now clear and transparent. The Belgian State is the owner, while the IPF manages the base and runs the station for five years. That period may be extended once by three years. An agreement was also concluded between the Belgian State and the IPF. You can look into that agreement with me. The agreement defines the role of the IPF, what one can do and when. Visitors to the polar base can be received by the IPF, for example, after approval by the Pool Institute, in consultation with the IPF. At the end of each campaign, the Pool Institute will draw up an inventory and site description. The Pool Institute also has the possibility to have a counter-intelligence inventory and location description drawn up. This is how we try to avoid problems, because good agreements make good friends. Good agreements make good friends [[.]] A whole chapter is devoted to the management, maintenance and maintenance of the pool base and what is expected of the IPF in that respect. This concerns, among other things, operational logistics in the framework of the management of the base, outbuildings and stocks through a detailed stock management system. Furthermore, the measures to be taken to ensure safety and care, the technical and logistical support of the scientists residing on the basis, are a technical update of the basis. This is all very comprehensive in the agreement, as is the extension. We agree to cooperate for five years, but that period may be extended for a period of three years if it is established that the IPF has met eight to nine criteria for the previous five-year period. The IPF will also have to produce a final report on its activities each year. I think it is a good thing that agreements are made there. They will also be well executed and followed up. What changes now? There's gonna be an end to the fighting. It is particularly important for the scientific community that all cases should be brought to an end. We also did not know where we would come out, but we had already paid EUR 700 000 to lawyers.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-18-54-commissie-ic716x.u3	Excuse me, Madam Secretary of State. Is there a problem with translation? Can we correct for translation into French. Merci.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-18-54-commissie-ic716x.u4	We knew that we had already paid EUR 700 000 attorney fees, but we did not know what the outcome of all the trials would be. We also knew that if we were to proceed with proceedings, we would not send a shipment to the polar base this year. That's why it was important to close the deal. It is a correct settlement and the amount of 4.5 million that the Belgian State now pays to the IPF is, in view of the claim, a correct amount, both for us and for the IPF. Trust has been restored and lawsuits stopped. The Belgian State owns 100% of the pool base. There is another relationship between the Belgian State and the IPF, with a clearly defined division of roles. There is transparent management with the Ivzw and I am counting on the Scientific Committee to monitor the quality of what we do on the ground. What doesn't change? The annual budget of EUR 3 million does not change. The annual budget of EUR 3 154 000 is maintained. The IPF remains the exclusive operator for the next six years. It's this year and the next five years. There is also a possibility of renewal for three years.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-18-54-commissie-ic716x.u5	Madam Secretary of State, thank you for your introduction. I would like to ask colleagues who wish to speak.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-18-54-commissie-ic716x.u6	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, Professor! I think that, in political and parliamentary work, as hard as the opposition can be and so fiercely opposed, so much so that it grows when it recognizes that things are going well. I have asked myself enough about this issue since the beginning of the legislature to be able today, with discernment, to recognize that this is positive. Several of us have called for this resumption of dialogue. Just like you, we had seen the pile of legal procedures that led us into a vicious circle with the financial magnitude we know, but that could continue. On the other hand, Belgium's international image, which, with this zero-emission station, is the best, most efficient in Antarctica, was severely degraded. There was a permanent fight of a legal nature, image and probably ego as well. In short, I think it was time to resume this dialogue. You did. I thank you for that and congratulate you. For having often studied all aspects of this dossier, since we were obliged to study everything, I would like to ask you the questions that come to mind. The base is Pax Antarctica, but I'm thinking mainly of pacta sunt servanda. It's very important. And all this goes through a good law. You now have a signature. Last time I saw that, when we were talking about the bill, you had, in a very transparent way, announced the end of legal proceedings. I was a little surprised! Usually, that's what you do when the deal is made. And then, paf, that's the last point! I guess you didn't negotiate this at first but at the end, like a cherry on a white cake. All right! But now we have to make a law. The documents of the convention are signed and I suppose there will be a law, royal decrees, etc. You see this as a single big bill around the bill. All right! Since there is a Polar Institute, there will be a polar law. This will probably include all the elements that will give concrete expression to your agreement. Second element: ISBL is a very important element. In this case, it is not created by law. Is a law going to frame it? Because this is the 1921 law on non-profit organizations, but perhaps the non-profit organizations are regulated by another law? More specifically, do you have any avenues for partnerships? The Swiss were very interested in the project! Are there any countries that are emerging in relation to this issue today? Will the Norwegians be brought back (often asked question)? What is your temporal goal to create this AISBL? Should it be created completely or will you create it before you promote the arrival, even later, of other actors, which, I think, would be wise to be able to count on a starting point and welcome other participants, given the stakes and undeniable interest of this polar station in the future? The third element is the difficulty of working in what is known as a public-private partnership. It is true that in other cases I have also seen the difficulties of this kind of partnership. The public has its own rules. Only one example: the Finance Inspectorate. It was an issue that you, I suppose, have discussed extensively during your discussions with your new friends. The sometimes somewhat rigorous side is not always compatible with the terrain. Certain types of public procurement, for certain types of equipment... The boots used in Antarctica are not entirely those used by the North Sea. It is sometimes difficult to make real public procurement. This is very concrete, but it is the list of grievances accumulated over the years. So what will the role of the Finance Inspectorate be? Especially since, if I understood the mechanism correctly, we are moving more towards an audit of accounts by independent experts or even corporate reviewers. Very well for the name of the ASBL: the Polar Institute. The French have one; they will be very jealous. My fourth question concerns scientists. If I have understood the procedure correctly, we are talking about BELSPO who makes the peer reviews, pre-screens the projects; then, on the board of directors, the IPF has an advisory opinion, probably only on the concrete aspects of management on the ground. It was also at stake because one of the most worrying aspects of recent years was the inability of scientists to travel. They spoke during your negotiations. Have you had or are you going to have contact with them to reassure them - because it can take different forms, because the scientific world is sometimes a bit varied? There have been white maps, a whole series of positions but which are not always the reflection of the scientific world which is very, very varied. But the point is, of course, that in the future, all this is facilitated, especially the work on global warming, because it is one of the important issues that is taking place there. I come to my last question. The appointment of the members of the board of directors of ISBL is a very important issue, as it will reflect the real involvement of the actors in this issue. Pacta sunt servanda. Moreover, everyone should fully fulfil his or her role in terms of good governance. In this case, the quasi-public operator must avoid showing weakness. We know what happens when NSOs hijack public money...So I hope that the challenge will be met. This good agreement must therefore be translated into practice so that this zero-emission base can once again generate pride. Mr President, in conclusion, I would like to congratulate the Secretary of State on the positive outcome of this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-18-54-commissie-ic716x.u7	Madam Secretary of State, I would also like to congratulate you on the efficiency and speed of your work on this issue. In a recent article, you have placed a great deal of emphasis on climate research - a fundamental issue, as we all know. In this regard, the station has a key role to play. What are your climate policy plans? How will you articulate your actions with those of the Minister responsible for Environment and Climate?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-18-54-commissie-ic716x.u8	Madam President, Madam Secretary of State, first of all I must apologize to my colleague Daniel Senesael, who intervenes very regularly in this matter. He had included four items on the agenda, some of which were relatively old. Since he could not attend this meeting, I am replacing him provisionally. Madam Secretary of State, I would also like to thank you for the presentation of this Pax Antarctica – this is the title that has been proposed to us here. There was certainly a need for dialogue on this issue, since, as you said, we were in a stalemate. You give this issue a different orientation, and it is very well in the general interest. You have made a good presentation and I assume that it can be forwarded to the secretariat without difficulty. As far as the documents of the agreement are concerned, despite Parliament's concern for transparency, there may be some confidential elements. I don't think anyone will ask for a data room to see the documents, but you'll tell us if they're accessible, partially or not. It was already good to have an exchange of views with you. Beyond the agreement as you have just outlined it, there are still a few additional questions on which I would like to come back. This agreement is of course financial, but it also corrects a weakness of the first agreement signed by Mrs Laruelle on behalf of the government. In terms of ownership, this new agreement solves some of the problems that we had from the start. As far as the financial aspect is concerned, there is a one shot of 4.5 million euros, which will be devoted to the settlement of the dispute. Madam Secretary of State, can you clarify what this amount is about? I think there was a dispute about a larger sum, even though I don't know what was claimed. What does this amount represent? What will he pay? What's he gonna cover? How was it calculated during the consultation between the two parties? With respect to the origin of these funds, I noted in your response that $2.5 million came from a polar station reserve. I assume that these reserves are therefore reduced by 2 million. But I didn't understand what you said about the interdepartmental fund. Where does the balance of the $4.5 million come from? Will this be a decision of the Council of Ministers? What is the legal basis for this transfer that settles the dispute? As regards relations between the Belgian State and the IPF, a criminal complaint was pending. You mentioned thirty-five procedures. Both sides agree. Will the procedure be terminated or continue independently of the agreement reached? We're looking forward to this agreement. We're getting out of the rut we were stuck in. But we can't predict the future. If new problems with the International Polar Foundation arise (non-compliance with obligations or what do I still know), what about the relationship with the Belgian State? In the event of a dispute, has there been a phase of exit, sanction or otherwise to resolve any problems? In the event of a provisional breach of agreement between the parties, which would eventually lead to the blocking of the public mission, what measures are planned to ensure the continuity of this mission? I also have questions about the transfer of skills. What is planned for a continuous transfer of competences from the Foundation to the Belgian State, as well as for technical data? I'm thinking of new plans, new codes, new licenses. As far as the question of control is concerned, which my colleague Marcel Cheron has already mentioned, I wonder about the role of the Financial Inspectorate. What will his role be? Why would she not continue to exercise this control? What is your opinion on this question? As regards the five-year concession to the IPF, which would be followed by a public procurement, the question is whether the annual financial transfer should be maintained. Have you talked about EUR 3.15 million a year for maintenance, for operation? Will a contract be organised for this transfer? You talked about five years plus three years. I assume three years are an eventuality? Could a tender be subsequently made with other partners? I assume that when it comes to the use of public funds, the Foundation will also be subject to public procurement. Can you give me more details about this? I come to the question of property. The state becomes the owner of the last thousandth. This is a situation that makes matters clear. I imagine this is a definitive transfer of ownership that is not conditioned. Who will own the equipment purchased in recent years and who has been the subject of conflicts? Who will own the equipment that will be purchased in the future? There is also the whole question of intellectual property. [[Is it or will it be transferred to the Belgian State?]] You have also informed us of a possible continuous presence of a person representing the Belgian State on the ground. I assume that will be done correctly. You plan to have all of the station's scientific programs evaluated by a committee, whose composition you have given. I assume that all scientific programs will be evaluated by this one. The next BELARE campaign, which is fast approaching, involves the urgent start of purchases. I assume that a new partnership protocol has been or will be signed. Could you give us more details? When and by whom has the Polar Secretariat been transferred to the Procurement Foundation? Has a decision been made by the Strategic Council of the Polar Secretariat? These are the main issues that remained. I come to a brief conclusion, Madam Secretary of State. You tell us that good deals make good friends. I'm not sure it's the right formula. I'm not referring to Wallonia. I'd say it's better to have a good deal than a bad trial. That would be the right formula in this case. I am pleased, like others, that this agreement has been reached. The situation was such that it did not allow us to see the way out of the crisis. This forced us to inertia and created a blockage that could have lasted for a very long time. I see the Wallonia question makes you smile. It was a little piece of shit by the way! It is essential to ensure transparency, as you have indicated, in future management. This transparency in management has been somewhat lacking in the past as well. It is good to have agreements, but, as my colleague Cheron said, I think it is important to ensure that they are respected. Vigilance is therefore necessary. Who will live will see. We can hope to have a very positive scientific activity for our country, which is integrated into an international framework. It could be done with private partners, with the scientific world. It's very important. My conclusion is: transparency and vigilance for the future!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-18-54-commissie-ic716x.u9	Madam Secretary of State, what has happened in the past, we shall leave it alone. You've handled the file and put your trust in it. Through dialogue, you have contributed to an agreement on the pool base. We have heard a number of members of the opposition and I note that everyone is satisfied. I think you are giving the right answers to the right questions. The main conclusion is that good and clearly defined is what can and cannot be done. You're not only a punitive madam in the press, you're also making impressive results in the domains you manage.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-18-54-commissie-ic716x.u10	Madam Secretary of State, I can only endorse the positive words of all speakers across party boundaries. Indeed, dialogue is the best way to solve problems. You have clearly chosen the path of negotiation. This is an important step forward in finding a solution. It has to be admitted that at times it was a sad spectacle on the cover of what the crown of Belgian science policy should be. You are pushing forward a total solution and we can only welcome it. Although you were quite clear in your explanatory statement, I still have a number of questions. When do you expect the base to be operational again? What about the 2017-2018 mission? What is the current status of the base? What has been the impact of the lack of a scientific mission? How do you deal with that? You have spoken of a period of five years in which the foundation is the privileged partner. There would be an annual evaluation. What does that mean in concrete terms? On what basis will evaluation be carried out? Can the agreement be revoked if malpractices are found? What is the impact of the other elements of the overall agreement? In connection with scientific research, we learned in the newspaper that the biggest victim of this vaudeville is mainly scientific research. For example, there would be no results for long-term investigations in the years 2015 and 2016, due to the unavailability of the base. Can you confirm this? All that is true, in what way can we remedy that? How much impact has it had on the image of our base and our country? The foreign partners have kept their distance because of the conflicts. Is there any improvement in that respect? A number of fellow Members have also spoken about it. Has there been any renewed interest? Are there any contacts yet?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-18-54-commissie-ic716x.u11	Madam President, Madam Secretary of State, thank you not only for your presentation but also for the efforts you have made to bring this dossier to a positive conclusion. This proves that dialogue is always better than conflict. I would like to join in the congratulations of my fellow Members for having brought this to a successful conclusion. A lot of questions have already been asked, and I will not repeat them. I have one more question. Perhaps you have taken a look at it for a while, but I would have liked to have heard more about the scientific output that will be there in the future, but which was also there in the past. It is about the scientific output of Alain Hubert, if I may put it that way, although it is not entirely correct. Because that's what it's about, of course, the polar base is there to do some scientific research. As you said, there will be an advisory committee, including private partners, and possibly commercialisation. However, I would like to point out that this is an organisation that works with public funds, which is almost entirely subsidised by public funds. It is then, of course, important that the scientific output can be used by everyone, so to speak. I would have liked to have a little more explanation about that. How do you see that for the future? What happens to what has been done about scientific research in the past? In what way will these results be made widely available or used mainly for further scientific research and possibly for commercialisation?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-18-54-commissie-ic716x.u12	Madam Secretary of State, in the past, I have asked you and your predecessor, in committee and in plenary, about the management of this matter, which is now in your hands. You have succeeded in a good negotiation which I would like to congratulate you on. You have to be able to recognize when things are going in the right direction. That should be stressed. I associate myself with the congratulations of my colleagues. This is an important dimension, because negotiation and discussion are always preferable to conflict. For a few years now, it is the dynamics of scientific research that guides me in the analysis of this dossier. The initial "zero emission" polar station was a leader; it must remain so. Let us not forget that Belgium has a history in Antarctica, which must be honoured. This dimension of scientific research is absolutely fundamental. As far as the project and the details of the agreement are concerned, I think things were clear at the beginning. We then saw what I would call an escalation in the proceedings, first administrative and then judicial, with important numerical claims. Now we need to set beacons so that this doesn't happen again. As you say, it is crucial to rebuild trust, but this trust must not be blind. Mechanisms must therefore be put in place to work towards that confidence. How are you going to put these "trust marks" in place? I would also like to raise with you the whole issue of the details of the agreement. You said that there was an agreement, that it was visible and that we would have the slides in committee. Is it possible to transmit the text of the agreement to the services of the committee? Indeed, the agreements reached did not prevent this mountain of problems. We need to see how we can prevent potential difficulties. What roadmap are we going to follow to complete this agreement? As mentioned by my colleagues, there is this need to come to parliament with a law to be able to implement the principles of this convention and the statutes of the ISBL. As my colleagues have said, the 2016-2017 BELARE mission was not possible. Who will organise the BELARE 2017-2018 mission, which it is high time to initiate? What about the transfer of ownership? Is it absolute or is it conditional? You mentioned control mechanisms. There will be a government commissioner. Will this person be likely to go on site or will he/she be on site at each mission? In the convention, little has been said about the question of a possible dispute in the event of non-compliance with its clauses. How can this be solved? I would like to know about the sanctions, although, of course, I hope that there will be no non-compliance with this Convention. What is the $4.5 million paid to the IPF? Do they cover the costs of work carried out in previous years? I still have one question you haven't answered. Has the evaluation of the station's movable assets been considered? Who will own the furniture for the future? Will an inventory be prepared in the coming years, before 2023? In conclusion, I would like to address with you the question of the criteria for the renewal of the contract after five years or more. Under what law is this agreement signed? Indeed, transparency is essential in order to know what is being done with public money. Does this approach follow the rules on public procurement and, therefore, the invitation to tender? I'd like to ask you two more questions. Perhaps there is no need to talk about it, but are plans to expand the station being developed? Have you considered projects in this area or intend to maintain the status quo? Much can happen in five years in terms of scientific research. Together with your colleague in charge of the environment, you have come here to defend a bill on Antarctica. Will the station develop tourism activities? In my opinion, it is above all a place of scientific research. However, are you considering opening it up to tourism? Finally, will the annual evaluation you are announcing in the concession programme be forwarded to Parliament for possible questions? This would be a necessary act of transparency. I reiterate my congratulations on the completion of this dossier and hope that you will provide answers to my supplementary questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-18-54-commissie-ic716x.u13	Madam President, a lot has already been said. Allow me, Madam Secretary of State, to welcome the situation. Belgium had set up the King Baudouin polar base and then the Princess Elisabeth polar station in 2009. These are really important things for us on an international level and for the vision that these matters take. In recent years there have been legal problems with the status of this Belgian flagship. The agreement reached was very complicated in relation to the field of scientific research. We are pleased that a solution has been found. As Mr. Cheron said, proficiate! That goes in the right direction. The new agreement will allow us to sustain the Belgian presence in Antarctica while strengthening our credibility in this area and our image on the international stage. It's important to me. This agreement will also restore the serenity necessary for scientists to do their work properly. Have any guarantees been provided for this purpose in the agreement? I am not just talking about the fact that there is scientific advice in the future AISBL, but, more specifically, in the choice of scientific programmes to be carried out. Who now decides and who will decide in the future? The agreement provides for a five-year concession renewable for three years with the IPF. Will there be an evaluation of collaboration after each campaign? Will scientists be asked each year whether they are satisfied with this collaboration and what they would like to improve? If they're not quite happy, what will happen? How are you going to improve things? I had asked a question because I had read that it was possible for a second Belgian station to be born. A construction project on a new base was reportedly under consideration by the International Polar Foundation. What about it? Would it replace or complete the existing one? What is your position? Is it incorrect information or is it well-founded? Can you tell me more or no?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-18-54-commissie-ic716x.u14	Madam Secretary of State, I give you the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-18-54-commissie-ic716x.u15	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, thanks to your repeated legitimate questions in committee meetings and in plenary sessions, we have speeded up the negotiations. I would also like to thank you once again for your confidence and for giving me time to reach an agreement. I have to admit that I have learned a lot about the achievement of an agreement. Mr Delizée, if necessary, I would like to come to Wallonia and negotiate with you. A lot of questions have been asked, quite rightly. I shall begin by addressing the questions put by Mr Cheron and Mr de Lamotte, who asked whether there would be a law and what it might look like. Now, at the moment, there is a preliminary draft law. That preliminary draft is currently before the Council of State for its opinion. The purpose of the text is to abolish Chapter 1, Title 5 of the Law of 24 July 2008. We also ask for an authorisation to set up an Ivzw, for which some lines of action are included in the legislative text. Furthermore, the text also contains the agreement 2018-2023 between the IPF and the Belgian State. The aim is to develop and further detail the Ivzw with the statutes, which have already been completed, and also the agreement, which we mention in the legal text. It's already on paper. I hope that we will receive the opinion of the Council of State as soon as possible, which will enable us to review and approve the draft law here in Parliament in September or October. As has been said, and whatever many think, it is good that we have got out of the legal swamp and can ensure the future of the polar base. The law is, of course, essential and was drawn up on the basis of the negotiations. In any case, the intention is to ensure the agreement reached in the future. There was the question of whether there was an interest in cooperation with other partners or countries? There is indeed an interest in other countries and scientists, as we hear. Until recently, everyone was watching the cat out of the tree. With the agreement reached and with the approval of the draft law, other countries and foreign scientists will be convinced of this, given the signals we are getting from the scientific world, I am sure that they will be interested in cooperating on the polar basis. As far as the success of public-private cooperation and the role of the Treasury Inspectorate are concerned, I have confidence in public-private cooperation, subject to clear agreements. With what we have achieved now, I hope that the i-dot has been put on the i-dot and for each partner it is clear who is doing what. Mrs Temmerman referred to Alain Hubert who will manage with his IPF, but scientific research really does get to the scientific world, to scientists. The projects will be submitted to BELSPO. The Scientific Committee will assess the importance of the projects and decide which projects will be taken from them. We have also agreed that it is stated in the agreement that the investigation is to be divided. What we do about scientific research on the polar basis will be further distributed to other scientists. The Pole Institute has the key role to play in this. It is important that everyone knows what to do. There is no role for the Treasury Inspection in the Ivz, but the audit committee, the government commissioner and the company auditors will play a role. Several committee members asked if there have been any contacts with scientists? Yes, there has been a contact, especially with the chairman of the Belgian National Committee for Antarctic Research. There are also contacts with other individual scientists. The cabinet is also present at the briefings for scientists. The fact that a scientific committee is to be set up is mainly due to the legitimate question that has been asked to us from the scientific community. As far as the public access to documents is concerned, I have the documents. They can be seen, that's no problem. I like transparency, but I find it difficult to distribute it to everyone. That is not the intention, but there is no problem looking at the documents, if necessary in a data room. That's not a problem for me. Members of Parliament have the right to see the documents. I think it is very important that we are transparent, in all the dossiers, but certainly also in this dossier. I have no problem making the documents available at the request of a Member of Parliament. Where does the 4.5 million euro come from? As I said, we originally applied for a sum of 15 million for different courts. These were often orders made, unpaid invoices, movable property, all kinds of claims for damages. This brought them to 15 million. We have then reached a compromise on a flat rate of 4.5 million, at the end of all accounts. Two million was withdrawn from the reserves, because we still had a balance in the account, because the 2015 campaign did not continue. The other 2.5 million comes from the commission and is also included in the budget. If there are new disputes, then the company supervisor must give a ruling. There are also concluding agreements in the agreement. Mr Delizée and Mr de Lamotte asked what happens after eight years? The Agreement may be renewed after five years. It contains a number of criteria when it can be renewed. Mr de Lamotte asked for that, I think. The agreement is therefore renewable for a period of three years if it is established that the IPF has fulfilled the following criteria for the previous five-year period. Firstly, the reception of Belgian and foreign scientific delegations in accordance with the terms of the agreement. Secondly, the IPF's submission of the annual environmental report. Thirdly, the exploitation and maintenance of the base during the summer in Antarctica, which is from November to February, according to the terms of the agreement. Fourthly, except in cases of force majeure, guaranteeing a connection with the base and certain scientific equipment during the winter on Antarctica from March to October............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Fifthly, the application, implementation and compliance with safety standards for persons and goods. Sixth, the sound financial management of the base including timely payment of subcontractors and transparent invoicing; evidence that the budget of a given campaign was used exclusively for the specific expenditure related to the campaign concerned. Seventh, the annual establishment of a site description and inventory. Eighth, the annual preparation or adaptation of an infrastructure and investment plan, the submission of satisfaction surveys to any scientist who has been present on the basis or who has conducted scientific activities on the basis or in its surroundings. Fourthly, there has been no structural failure to fulfil its obligations under this agreement. These are the criteria that will have to be met if it is to be renewed. Suppose it's extended, what happens after eight years? Then the Pool Institute can organise it itself or call on a public contract. There were also several questions about the donation, in particular the 1/1000. This is done on condition that the law is also approved. Then it's unrefundable, too. Given is given, if I may put it that way. For 2017-2018, the Protocol was adopted at the Policy Council of 15 June 2017. The organisation has already started for the IPF. What climate projects? The projects will depend on the scientists themselves who submit their projects to BELSPO. However, there are interesting projects, such as measuring ice growth and ice loss. The RMI also has a permanent measuring station at the base, but it goes without saying that the climate is likely to be the main issue. Much also depends on the autonomy of the scientists who submit a project. Mrs Lijnen, as I said, has started the organisation of the campaign for 2017 and 2018. From November 2017, scientists will leave. The impact of 2016, when there were no campaigns, is already largely overtaken by the fact that this year we have 23 projects with about 51 scientists going to the pool base during this period. A normal campaign concerns 10 to 12 projects. So this year there are more, especially 23. That's why we're catching up. Last year the measurements were just passed on, which means the data was collected this year. In the scientific world, the image damage for Belgium was limited. There was concern, but there have been many contacts in recent weeks with regard to the agreement. The fact that there will now be a campaign again provoked a lot of positive reactions at international level. As far as potential partners are concerned, foreign scientists are interested because the location of the polar base is unique. I haven't been there yet, but that's what I've been told. Hence the interest of potential partners. We will have to run a good campaign in terms of marketing and advertising, because the partners will be watching how the Belgians will do it this year. With an overcrowded agenda, 23 projects and more than 50 scientists, we are in any case firing a blast before restarting the polar base. Given the know-how and the location, I think the interest will come. Mr de Lamotte asked how problems would be avoided. Well, we have well described what everyone should do. The Finance Inspectorate was also involved in the negotiations and there were specific lawyers present in order to reach an even better agreement. The agreement for this year's campaign has already been drawn up. The possibility exists to terminate the agreement if the terms contained therein are not complied with. The following acts give rise to the early termination of the agreement: (a) the liquidation of the IPF; (b) the liquidation of the Pool Institute; (c) a serious or deliberate error in respect of a party or any other person or undertaking intervening on its behalf; (d) the unilateral substantial modification or early termination by the Belgian State or the Pool Institute of this Agreement. There are several cases, such as a serious or deliberate error, in which we can cancel the agreement. I hope, however, that we do not have to cancel them. The fact that we were engaged in a fight has created a sense of urgency for all parties to continue in the coming years. I felt that around the table. Everyone wanted to move on, because the display of the last two years wasn't good for anyone. There are certain clauses in the agreement in case of errors, but I assume that we will continue to work. Several colleagues have asked a question about the material. There was a lot of discussion about what is of the IPF and what is of the Belgian State. Everything has been transferred to the Belgian State, except for a few specific exceptions to the IPF. A list is annexed to the Agreement. An annual inventory will be carried out in the future and specific provisions will be included in the budget. The question was asked whether we will continue to expand. This is provided for in the investment plan and depends above all on the possible future partners. They also asked who screened the scientific work. In principle, BELSPO does so, because BELSPO is responsible for the scientific choices and all projects meet there. The Polar Institute conducts the logistics-technical evaluation with the support of the Scientific Committee. Then there is a management agreement, which we still have to work out, between the Belgian State and the Ivzw, which will specify this. To answer Mrs Temmerman's question and, as I said, the valorisation of the scientific research selected by the Belgian State, which is carried out within the framework of the basis, is reserved for the Polar Institute. The Polar Institute will therefore spread that further. The agreement with the IPF also describes the correct support of the scientists very well. This has been included as a criterion, and it is also accompanied by a measure of satisfaction, which I believe is important. There is also a theoretical thinking exercise, no plans because of Belgium, where the IPF as a private organisation can, of course, always build a basis for other countries, provided that the rules of the Antarctic Treaty are complied with. With that, I think I've answered all the questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-18-54-commissie-ic716x.u16	As regards the request to know the terms of the agreement, you propose that this document be consulted through the secretariat of the Committee on the Economy. A contact will be made to make this consultation possible by the members, in accordance with the usual rules in force.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-18-54-commissie-ic716x.u17	Madam President, first of all I would like to thank the Secretary of State for her answers. As regards the content of the agreement, I hear the wish of the Secretary of State not to distribute the document. In this case, if it is a consultation, it can be done by appointment, without a copy, without taking notes. But perhaps there is nothing to hide in this contract that could be equated with a contract for the management of a public undertaking setting the operating framework for the future. At the very least, it is necessary for those members who wish to be aware of it. The question is: Where is the cursor placed between transparency and confidentiality? However, this confidential consultation form may be appropriate for me. Madam Secretary of State, you have given a series of answers. I would like to return to three points. First, if I understand correctly, there will be an annual inventory of old equipment and equipment that will be acquired over time. At the end of the process, ownership would go to the state. Do I understand correctly?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-18-54-commissie-ic716x.u18	Yes!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-18-54-commissie-ic716x.u19	Secondly, the sum of 4.5 million is nevertheless significant. I don't know if I've paid enough attention, but I've asked how we're going to get that amount and what it's covering. Can you give me more details about this, knowing that the dispute is probably about a higher sum? It is therefore that the State acknowledges that, at the end of the day, it pays that sum. I also had a question about the criminal procedure. You say that court proceedings are terminated under an agreement. I can hear that for the civilian, but if a criminal proceeding is under way, will it be prosecuted or actually stopped? Can you tell us what is happening and what will happen? For the rest, I think it is important to prevent future potential conflicts and conflicts of interest. There is no doubt that in the past, agreements have been a source of difficulty. In the French language, there is a formula: "Chat échaudé feares cold water". I do not find a satisfactory translation in Dutch. I think it is on a daily basis that we should always ensure the proper functioning of the partnership with the polar station and the proper application of the agreement. I believe that it is your role and that of your department to ensure, in this context, the interests of the Belgian Scientific Policy in order to avoid tensions, disputes and possible conflicts. All in all, I think we're out of crisis. As several colleagues have said, it is in itself a very good thing while, of course, always showing caution, because there has been a problem, conflict of interest, there can always be. It is therefore better to warn them than to wonder how to manage them afterwards.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-18-54-commissie-ic716x.u20	I may have been distracted, Madam Secretary of State. I would have liked to have further information on the consistency with public procurement and the law on public procurement, in particular in the context of the signed concession and the procedure to be made after 2023 or in the context of the possible renewal of the concession.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-18-54-commissie-ic716x.u21	I thank the Secretary of State for her further replies. I have one more question: have you discussed the runway? Indeed, it is fundamental. This was one of the problems in the field. This was one of the important aspects of an operation that had not worked well because of this problem. I don't think you've answered Ms. Cassart-Mailleux, but she'll do the answers herself. This involved the IPF project of a new polar station. Has this been considered? Here I protect the interests of the MR, who sometimes needs it! I would also like more details on Mr. Delizée's question. The latter refers to a criminal case, but it is Mr Mettens, not BELSPO. I am entangled or Montesquieu will turn to his grave – I do not want to provoke such a melody in France – but it seems to me that this question is rather related to this.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-18-54-commissie-ic716x.u22	Mr Delizée, you have the floor to reassure Mr de Montesquieu on this subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-18-54-commissie-ic716x.u23	I believe that this was a complaint in conflict of interest on behalf of BELSPO, therefore the Belgian State. In my opinion, from the moment it's in the hands of the prosecutor's office, he's obliged to study. That was the meaning of my question. I didn't say we could do something about it, but we hear that all procedures are stopped. I simply indicated that criminal proceedings were in progress. I did not say that the Secretary of State could change something; I wanted to make it clear that this aspect of the conflict remains at the criminal level.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-18-54-commissie-ic716x.u24	Madam Secretary of State, thank you for your answer. Simply ensure that the government's policies are consistent and that BELSPO's action is well aligned with that of the Minister of Climate and Administration.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-18-54-commissie-ic716x.u25	Mr Cheron, thank you. [[Minister, I heard from your answers that you did not really take a position on that.]] I will file a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-18-54-commissie-ic716x.u26	I'll give you a few more additions. Firstly, on the amount of 4.5 million, I can be quite clear. Originally 15 million were claimed for a whole series of unpaid invoices, placed orders, movable property, all kinds of damages. We were not willing to pay everything, because there were disputes about damages. As usual, a compromise was found: for 4.5 million we wanted to conclude everything. That settlement amount is a total sum, not an exact statement of all outstanding accounts. Secondly, as far as the criminal charge is concerned, it was intended to complete the file. That's why we've also withdrawn our bourgeois stand. It is now up to the court to decide what happens next. Exactly in order to put an end to all conflicts, we have withdrawn the criminal charge. Then there was a question from Mr de Lamotte. That public procurement would not apply, I would like to take it to the cabinet. I will also take Mr Cheron's comment. There was also a question from Mr Piedboeuf. It goes without saying that I will be sitting with my colleague to look at the situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-18-54-commissie-ic716x.u27	Additional elements will be brought later, which you can also raise through the procedure written questions, in particular concerning the public procurement, the airstrip and possibly a second station. Ladies and gentlemen, can we close our exchanges in this way? These will be included in the full record of the oral questions, as questions were attached. This helps to relieve the services of the commissions that have been under severe strain lately. Thank you all.
