ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-25-54-commissie-ic758x.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, since we are starting to deal with the draft legislation at 10.00 a.m., I will be strictly monitoring the speaking time. Each questioner has two minutes to ask his question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-25-54-commissie-ic758x.u2	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, since mid-September you have been working openly and shamelessly with the Sudanese police to identify Sudanese who, precisely, are fleeing the dictatorial regime of Omar al-Bechir. However, on 9 October, the League of Human Rights filed a unilateral application with the President of the Court of First Instance of Liège with the aim of preventing repatriation to the Sudan. The court gave him a reason. This ruling prohibits you from organizing the repatriation of Sudanese nationals imprisoned in the closed centre of Vottem on the grounds that violations of human rights and international humanitarian law are proven in the Sudan. The decision was upheld by another judgement. The Court thus invoked Article 3 of the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. According to this judgment, the Belgian State has outlawed the law by issuing orders to leave the territory to persons who may have their fundamental rights substantially challenged once they have returned to their country. Most importantly, this ruling forbids you to re-identify Sudanese by working with the police in their country. Last Friday, I went to Center 127bis, where I met about ten Sudanese raided at Maximilian Park or North Station. They all came from Darfur, were stressed and were absolutely astonished to have met the Sudanese delegation within the 127bis centre itself. Hence my questions, Secretary of State. Has the cooperation between the Belgian State and the Sudanese police really come to an end? If so, on what date? Is there any further illegal collaboration of this kind in the future? If so, at what point? How many Sudanese are currently detained in a closed centre in Belgium, especially in Vottem? Does this ruling, in your opinion, make jurisprudence concerning all envisaged repatriations of all Sudanese? Apparently, no, since one of those who is locked up in 127bis has signed an agreement, you claim, for a voluntary return – but in a language he did not know. This act caused the President of the League of Human Rights to say that it was a simulacre of consent. In addition, a judicial procedure had given him reason. I would therefore have liked clarification from you on this matter. Finally, what are the possible judicial proceedings that you have initiated in response to the 9 October judgment? What are you waiting for?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-25-54-commissie-ic758x.u3	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, my colleague has just referred to the context. I shall therefore proceed directly to the questions. Despite the tight timing, I wouldn't want to deprive you of your response time. To the decision to which my colleague has just referred, you have announced that you have made a third party objection. Let us remember that this procedure is not suspensive. In the press on 15 and 16 October, you welcomed the fact that some 20 Sudanese nationals had already been deported. I would like to know whether any further removals have taken place since the judgment of the Court of Justice in this case and, if so, how many, from which centre and to which destination. Have any amounts been provided for the payment of the resulting periodic penalty payments? Let me turn to my second question. Today's inquiry is about facts that are excessively serious if they are true. They are such as to put into deep question the functioning of your administration and your return policy. I'm going to explain these things to you. The person mentioned here is a Sudanese national detained in the Caricole closed centre for two months. He is described as fragile and unbearable to this prolonged imprisonment. He brought an application to the Brussels Correctional Court for release, on which the Chamber of Counsel was to rule on Tuesday, 17 October. In view of the Agency's desire to return to Khartoum on 13 October, the lawyers of the Sudanese national obtained, through a unilateral motion, a judicial decision prohibiting the application of a return procedure before the Chamber of Counsel rendered its decision. This prohibition of dismissal, accompanied by a periodic penalty payment, is embodied in a judgment delivered on 12 October and notified by a bailiff on the evening of Thursday. The Sudanese national is still in contact with a volunteer outside the centre. He expressed his fears about a return to Sudan that he did not want. But on Friday afternoon, the Sudanese national is still on board an EgyptianAir plane heading for Sudan. Indeed, between the notification by the bailiff and the departure of the aircraft, the person concerned would have signed a document stating that he consented to a voluntary return. This document was written in a laconic English, on unheaded paper, and apparently out of the presence of an interpreter and without even speaking to a lawyer. You will understand, Mr. Franken, that this situation is unacceptable if it is proven. It would cast suspicion on the circumstances of all the voluntary returns that you boast about in the Sudanese case. On the basis of this information, my questions are as follows. Do you agree with the facts presented in this article? These facts have been confirmed by the Human Rights League. Is it normal for this person to have been detained in a closed centre for a period of two months, the maximum period allowed for cases that would not affect public order or national security? In what capacity? Is this deprivation of liberty compatible with Article 5 of the European Convention on Human Rights? How does the administration justify it? What is the duration of deprivation of liberty for persons who find themselves in situations comparable to those of the Sudanese national in question? I am thinking here of individuals taken individually and not of an agreed average on all cases which would not take into account, for example, transfers from one centre to another. Under what circumstances did the Sudanese national submit an application for voluntary return? Was he informed of the notification of the judgment given in his favour when the notification was presented to the centre by bailiff? Has it been translated into him? Is the request for voluntary return a request made unilaterally by the person concerned or has it been submitted by officials of your administration? What other contacts did he have, and with whom, between the notification of the judgement and the registration of this application for voluntary return? Was a translator/interpreter present? Was anyone able to ensure the rights of defence of the person concerned there at the time of signature? If so, why does the document in question not include a translation into the language of the applicant? Is it common practice to see this type of request on a free sheet of paper, without any mark allowing it to be assimilated to an official document? What guarantees can you provide that the circumstances in which this request was signed do not constitute an infringement of Article 3 of the European Convention on Human Rights? Finally, how many other applications for voluntary return were made under similar circumstances? Can you produce them?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-25-54-commissie-ic758x.u4	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, I also have two questions, but I have merged them into one question. However, I am entitled to four minutes' speaking time. First of all, I will say what I will say nothing about, namely the many cases that are currently pending. I'd like to talk about what you can do yourself as Secretary of State. Have you really done everything to prevent someone who, for example, is at risk of torture from being deported? For the sake of clarity, return is an essential part of asylum and migration policy. In order to organise that return, we need to identify people. That's obvious. In cooperation with highly questionable regimes, such return operations should be prepared with the utmost precision and carried out with the utmost caution. I think Sudan with al-Bashir is definitely one of them. I have already asked a few questions at the last meeting of this committee, but I ask them again because I have not actually received any clear answers. Was there an interpreter present at that I.D.? Did DVZ understand everything that was said in the identification of the Sudanese? Were they able to register that? Is full identification in Belgium or is it sufficient for Sudan to establish nationality in Belgium? In what way does DVZ verify the findings of the Sudanese mission? Or were they accepted for what? How many times did the review of Article 3 of the ECHR lead DVZ to decide not to deactivate itself? We assume that you will not allow that review to depend on an appeal to the RV, because that would mean I know that you are sensitive to it and that you will initiate proceedings. The Liège court found that no analysis of Article 3 ECHR was included in the order to leave the territory. Is that right? What's the status today? A number of questions have already been asked about Dublin transfers. How many voluntary and forced returns can we expect? Do you have any idea how many Sudanese people in the Belgian detention centres come from Darfur, South Kordofan and Blue Nile? What are the recognition rates from these regions? In Le Vif we read about a Sudanese who withdrew his asylum application. How many Sudanese people have so far withdrawn their asylum application and under what circumstances? Have there been any expulsions from Vottem since the ruling in Liège Sudan? That is what I come to my second main question. My colleague Dirk Van der Maelen has put a question to Minister Reynders. He wanted to know to what extent the deported Sudanese would be followed. The Minister refers to you, Mr Secretary of State. The Minister has said that there is a possibility of working with the embassy on the ground within his department. For Sudan, our embassy, please, is in Cairo. The Minister states that the Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration only has to ask. I think you're in a government together and probably meeting on Friday morning. I would like to know to what extent there are agreements with the Department of Foreign Affairs to cooperate?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-25-54-commissie-ic758x.u5	Mr President, Secretary of State, on Friday, 13 October 2017, a Sudanese national, Mohammad, who has been detained in the Caricole Centre for two months, was reportedly sent back to Sudan. We are concerned about the context, as my colleagues have pointed out. If these facts were proven, it would mean, as the League for Human Rights points out, "that a member of the executive spits at the figure of the judiciary in an attempt to escape the effects of a court decision". This poses a problem in terms of the separation of powers. Mr. Secretary of State, do you confirm these facts? What do you think of the procedure followed by your administration? Is it possible to obtain a copy of the document sent to him and signed by him? What about the presence of his lawyers and interpreters? Where is this national currently located? The Foreign Office contends that Mohammad repeatedly requested his departure and left without escort. His departure would have gone smoothly. Why then would he have filed an application for extreme emergency release? Similarly, why would he have contacted a representative of the citizen platform of Maximilian Park, giving him his flight number and ensuring that he did not want to return to Sudan? You indicate, by means of the press, that you intend to submit a request for third party opposition. What will this do if Mohammad is no longer on Belgian territory? Why didn't you use this tool earlier?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-25-54-commissie-ic758x.u6	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on 18 August the person concerned was arrested in Leuven and taken to the repatriation centre 127bis. He stays there from August 18 to August 25. From 25 August to 13 October, he will stay in the Caricole where he announces that he wishes to return to Sudan as soon as possible. On September 6th, he applied for asylum. A day later, he wants to give up his asylum application, but then he changes his mind. Finally, he definitively renounces his asylum application, in Arabic, on 11 September. He was then clearly told that this would not speed up the departure of the centre and that it was necessary to wait until the identification of the Sudanese was completed. He replied that he did not want to go back to Sudan but simply to be free. He was told again that, in order for him to return, the Office of Foreigners had to first obtain a pass and that this would continue. He replied that he understood and that he would quietly wait. He claimed that he had arrived via Italy and that fingerprints had been taken there, but the Foreign Office found nothing in the Eurodac system. From September 19th, he has a lawyer. On 5 October, he filed a first request for release. On 11 October, the Brussels Chamber declared that it had no territorial jurisdiction. He's filing a new request for release from prison at the Leuven Council Room. The session is scheduled for 17 October. In the meantime, a flight is scheduled for October 13th. When a social assistant talks to him about this flight on 11 October, he says he wants to return voluntarily. His lawyer filed a unilateral motion on 12 October. On the same day, the President of the Brussels Court of First Instance decides on the prohibition of repatriation until the Chamber of Council has ruled and has ruled on the application for release. This is accompanied by a penalty payment of EUR 10 000. The flight of 13 October was then cancelled but the Caricole Centre received the information late and the person concerned had already been taken to the airport because he had expressed the wish to return voluntarily. He left the center without any problems and signed a voluntary departure certificate. Federal police confirm he was happy to leave. At the airport it was reported that his original 10:30 flight had been cancelled via Istanbul. The person concerned kept repeating at the airport that he wanted to leave. The Foreign Office then checked to see if there was another flight possible and he took a flight in the afternoon via Cairo. The Federal Police, including an inspector who speaks Arabic, explained the situation to the person concerned. He replied that the travel routes did not prevent him from returning and that his only wish was to smoke a cigarette. He then left without escort and without incident. Contrary to the rumours, the doctor of the centre has confirmed that the person concerned has not at any time made any mental complaints to the doctor or nurse. You can then find that the person concerned was fully aware and well informed and agreed to his departure. By the way, he understood English, the language in which the document was drawn up. There was also a police officer who did the explanation in Arabic. There was therefore no language barrier. Reports from the center and the police show that the man knew perfectly what he was doing and that he wasn't put under any duress. So I am speaking against what certain NGOs are saying about that. I have all the evidence with me and hand it over to the committee so they can be looked in. I'd rather not have them scattered anywhere. I'll come to the Sudanese in globo. Cher président, honorables membres, I refer to the explanatory statement by the Minister of the Interior, the Prime Minister and myself concerning the identification mission and repeat that the Sudanese delegation was composed by the Sudanese Government from members of the Ministry of the Interior. These persons were screened by our Ministry of Foreign Affairs, by the Security of the State and by the General Intelligence and Security Service. With regard to voluntary return, I can inform you that the Foreign Affairs and Fedasil Department has taken several actions, including by distributing leaflets to inform migrants in the North Station and the Maximilian Park about the dangers of transit migration, the impossibility of travelling as a person without the necessary residence or required documents, the problems associated with illegal residence in the United Kingdom, such as the risk of exploitation, but also the possibility of voluntary return and not forgetting the possibility of applying for asylum in Belgium, at any time. These persons were thus given sufficient information prior to detention. If you do not take this on your own, you are being intercepted and held in a closed centre, you will be given information at the intake at the centre on the possible appeal procedures, on the application for asylum and on a voluntary or forced return. That information shall be provided through brochures, audio material and a personal explanation by the return coaches. It is available in several languages. Interpreting is also carried out in the closed centres if necessary. Interested persons may at any time declare to the centre that they wish to return. If they indicate this, they are asked to confirm it in writing as well. The interested person writes it himself, unless he can't write – what happens sometimes. In this case, the returning official shall write it down and the staff member shall sign the document indicating a cross or initial. If necessary, an interpreter is used. The organisation of the interview relating to voluntary return in the presence of the lawyer is difficult in practice. With regard to this specific case, I can inform you that the person concerned indicated his intention to return to Sudan from the start of the arrest. We wanted to wait for the identification procedure because the person did not have a valid travel document. As regards the type of document, it may not be a pre-printed text or a self-written text without a header. The document is in the annex, so you can see it there. In addition to the document to which you refer, there is already a written statement of 11 September 2017 in Arabic, by the person concerned, at the official distance of his asylum application with head of the Foreign Affairs Office, in which the person concerned declares his intention to return to his country of origin. What guarantees can I give that the document was drafted without a violation of Article 3 of the ECHR? It is the choice of the person concerned himself. There are return coaches who intervene to explain their situation to the interested parties and inform them of the possibilities available to them and which I recalled earlier. On the basis of this information, the parties concerned can decide for themselves what to do. He knew the procedure because he had applied for asylum and himself decided to give up his asylum application. There are no statistics available on voluntary return declarations in the centres; there are only figures available on voluntary return via IOM from the centres. As regards the retention period, Article 7 of the 1980 Law provides that, after two months of initial detention, an extension of two months is possible if the necessary steps have been taken to remove the alien within seven working days of the alien being detained, if they are continued with due care and if effective removal is still possible within a reasonable period of time. After this two-month extension, a further one-month extension is possible. The deadline is therefore five months. In cases where this is necessary for the protection of public policy or national security, an extension of one month to a total duration of eight months may be made. This provision is in accordance with Article 5 of the ECHR. It is not the case, as has been suggested here, that the time limit is only two months in detention and two months in detention if public order is compromised. One can go to four or five months incarcerated if there is still a good chance of identifying and obtaining a laissez-passer. That is a European law. What some people have said here is not correct; that is not the first time. One can proceed to eight months in detention in a closed centre if public order or national security are at risk. If one does not agree with the decision on detention, one can always appeal against it. Appeals are mentioned in the decision and are also explained in the centre. If a person opposes an attempt at repatriation, a decision on detention can be taken again and a new deadline starts. The average retention period in days, as well as information by nationality, are not available in statistics. The figures for 2016 are: in Caricole 14 days, in 127bis 33 days, in Bruges 34 days, in Merksplas 43 days, in Vottem 44 days. For the questions on identification, I refer again to the explanations already given in detail by the Prime Minister and Deputy Prime Minister Jambon. There is no interpreter present on the identification mission, it never was. There's someone from DVZ here. If you ask for the presence of an interpreter now, we can certainly look into that. It is an identification mission composed by the Sudanese. Again, there is no interpreter present, there is someone from DVZ present. If you say, "How can the DVZ man understand what is being said between these two?', That seems to me to be a legitimate concern. But I would like to say to you that this question has never been raised in the past. No identification mission in the past required the presence of an interpreter. I think that if those people in the identification mission made some serious statements about those Sudanese people, they would understand that in a way other than merely verbally. Our DVZ guy would know if there were any threats there. Non-verbal communication is also important, of course. If you think it would be better to add an interpreter to that, then that should be looked at. I have nothing against that in itself. I certainly find that an interesting suggestion to investigate further. However, I would like to say very clearly to your colleague, who keeps asking me this question, to repeat that there was no interpreter and that this was never the case in the past. However, this may be a good idea in the future. Maybe you'll argue for that, but I'll hear about that later. The question concerning the reception of asylum seekers is not raised here because the persons concerned do not ask for asylum. At least not for the detention. If they applied for asylum, they would receive reception during the examination of their application. For the questions relating to the review of Article 3, I also refer to the explanations already given, and I note that the procedure for applying for international protection is to apply for asylum. They must therefore apply for asylum and cannot be obliged to do so. It refers to the case-law of the Court of First Instance of Liège, which was confirmed, but forgets to mention that there is also case-law of the court of first instance of Leuven according to which the detention is legal. And there is also a ruling yesterday from the Brussels appeal court which states that there was no violation of Article 3, inter alia because they do not apply for asylum. So you can refer to Liège as much as you like, I have Leuven and Brussels in the meantime. We'll see what Liège finally says. The first meeting was held on 15 November in the Liège appeal court. We'll see what's finally decided by the people in Liège. Two persons withdrew this application of the detained Sudanese in 2017 who applied for asylum until the date of 24 October. Under the specific case dealt with in the reply, as well as the declaration of voluntary return, that is the choice of the person concerned himself. There are currently 19 asylum applications from Sudanese residents residing in a closed centre. Two asylum applications were submitted by Sudanese with a Eurodac hit. They are covered by the Dublin procedure. In 2017, the CGSS recognition rate for Sudan was 54.1%. The recognition rate is highly dependent on the profiles of the asylum seekers for whom a decision was taken. It is not possible to provide statistics by region. I don't have that at my disposal. I'm getting to the stage for the removals. In total, 106 Sudanese were already removed in 2017. Mrs Fernandez, you also asked this in writing in your question No. 21332. They were therefore 106 Sudanese, 97 of whom had a Eurodac hit, so they were covered by the Dublin procedure. One person was transferred bilaterally, one person left voluntarily with IOM and seven of them left forced, two with escort. Removals are also planned, of course not from Vottem, but from other centres. At present there are 68 people in the closed centres considered as Sudanese, 28 of whom are in the Dublin procedure, 36 with laissez-passer and four in (...) on our identification service. Fifteen persons are held in center 127bis, three in center Caricole, ten in Bruges, 20 in Merksplas and 20 in Vottem. Of the persons arrested in the context of the actions and initially considered Sudanese, 15 were exempted. As regards the follow-up after removal, Mrs De Coninck, I would like to point out that the national procedures, with the review of Article 3, remain fully applicable. When there are indications that a monitoring is needed, DVZ will organise the monitoring directly or indirectly via our embassy or an employee. As proof, I would like to point out that these are transit migrants who live in difficult conditions and do everything possible to reach the United Kingdom, for which they are taking a lot of risks. They do not want to stay in Belgium. They declare that in the centers. It cannot be an option to live in illegality in Belgium. You refer to Minister Reynders, Mrs De Coninck. There's been a contact with our ambassador in Cairo. We are looking at how we can possibly organise this, but there is nothing concrete at the moment.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-25-54-commissie-ic758x.u7	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for your answers. In this story, there is the visible and invisible. In both cases, it is unworthy of a democracy. The visible is the extreme stress of the Sudanese I met last Friday, raided and locked up. Contrary to what you say, there is a lack of access to information. I hear that there are return coaches, but the people I met did not receive the leaflets on applying for asylum or voluntary return. They're under pressure to return. It's obvious. They are being interviewed by the Sudanese police by cunning because they are facing the political police of Omar al-Bashir, without knowing that they will be confronted by this political police. There is clearly a lack of access to justice, since most of the people I met never saw or heard a lawyer. I repeat, I've met a dozen of them. If the Sudanese don't ask for asylum here, it's for a simple reason. They want to join England. But if they applied for asylum here, as most of them first set foot on European soil in Italy, you would send them back to Italy, which they do not want because the aim is to go to Britain where they would not be subject to police checks. This case is particularly painful. Our role as parliamentarians is to make the unacceptable visible. That's what we just did here.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-25-54-commissie-ic758x.u8	Secretary of State, I don't know what I remember most about your speech. Is it the content or your lapsus that made you smile but which, I hope, is not revealing. I don't come back on him so indignant! Mr Franken, you continue to defend the unjustifiable. The original sin is to have brought this Sudanese delegation, which has put us in this situation. By doing so, you have broken the confidence that refugees could have in the Belgian state. You have broken the confidence of Parliament, in any case of a large number of parliamentarians. You have broken trust with NGOs and, above all, you have broken trust with dozens of citizens. Fortunately they are here because, every day, they give us a little dignity, by taking acts of solidarity and making up for your shortcomings. We asked you in plenary, we asked the Prime Minister: suspend the Dublin procedure for people of Sudanese origin, in order to restore some dignity to this situation and that these people can calmly apply and take over their future. I refer more specifically to the file of this person who, in your opinion, applied for voluntary return. We cannot get rid of the feeling of consent obtained perhaps not under pressure - I will pay attention to the documents you are going to hand over - but in a situation of fragility, linked both to the migrant's journey and to the situation of detention that you described and that the NGOs have described to us. In this exchange, it will always be the word of one against the word of the other. Personally, my idea is made. But I think that my role, and that of Parliament, is to manage things objectively, as far as possible. That is why, as in the past, the Socialist Group is asking the Federal Ombudsman to carry out an in-depth investigation into this specific situation - I suppose you will also make available to him the documents you are submitting to us today - and more broadly what is happening in closed centres every day; especially to see how the situation can be improved and, in any case, make it more transparent. The lack of transparency and communication makes us fear the worst.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-25-54-commissie-ic758x.u9	I would like to continue with the confidence expressed by the previous speaker. I visited the closed center of Bruges yesterday. We have found that, despite the very poor concept of infrastructure, the management and the supervisors are doing a lot for the people who are waiting for their expulsion. We have also found that those same people can still apply for asylum and get enough information about it. The Secretary of State often refers to the information which is disseminated, inter alia, through flyers to inform people of their rights and of the opportunities to apply for asylum. My experience is that people who come from other countries and cultures sometimes have other experiences that strongly determine whether or not they have faith in the government. There are a lot of people coming here who can't imagine that the government can do something good for them and also think about their interests. In this context, it is obvious that these people do not dare to apply for asylum and put little faith in the information they receive from any government. I think we should take more account of that. You also refer to our questions about the interpreters. We will keep coming back to that, because I am trying to imagine these situations in a very concrete way. A Sudanese person is taken to the Sudan Embassy in the presence of someone from DVZ. There will then be a conversation, because there must be an identification. What language is used there? Have agreements been made to conduct that conversation in English or French or in another language that both the DVZ employee understands, as well as the Sudanese, the embassy employee and the colleague of the identification team? If that is not the case, will an interpreter be called in? I can imagine that this is not necessary in all cases, but admit that, if there is a great deal of distrust of a Sudanese identification committee, I think we should look at how we organise it with the greatest possible attention. Such that there is a balance sheet it is always about power between the one identified and the one identifying. That is why I am wondering how this is going in concrete terms. That's why I'm visiting centres to see what the reality is. I hope you will agree with the ambassador who is housed in Cairo on how the succession of the deportations is done. I also learned yesterday that, mainly with European resources, projects are being set up in certain countries to help people who are being sent back to work, training and medical support. I think we should look at this more closely in one of the following committees.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-10-25-54-commissie-ic758x.u10	Mr Secretary of State, in this case, there was still a judgment of the Brussels Correctional Court. Everyone knows that a judgment is binding, but it has not been respected by the executive. If there was a communication problem, this could not happen to the detriment of the foreign person. Belgian law provides that a request for third-party opposition should be filed. What about the lawyers? It's not up to a police officer to explain what he can or must do. This confirms the findings of the MRAX and CER NGOs that there are serious shortcomings in access to legal aid. In conclusion, we see that the law has not been respected, as has the principle of separation of powers. It is your administration's responsibility to deal with these situations too lightly. So it's your responsibility too!
