ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-plenair-ip202x.u1	The meeting is open. The meeting was opened.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-plenair-ip202x.u2	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 12 December 2017, I propose: - add on Wednesday 13 December the swearing-in of a new member; - on Thursday 14 December, after the oral questions, the plenum should begin with the following point: • the draft law amending the Act of 20 July 1990 on provisional detention in respect of the immediate arrest and introducing the security period, 2731/1 to 6; • the additional bill (Mr Philippe Goffin, Mr Richard Miller, Mr Gilles Foret, Mr Jean-Jacques Flahaux and Mr Olivier Chastel) introducing into the Criminal Code a security period in the event of convictions for particularly serious crimes, Sixty-three to four. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 12 December 2017, I propose: - to add on Wednesday 13 December the swearing-in of a new member; - to start the sitting on Thursday 14 December, after the oral questions, with the following point: • the draft law amending the Act of 20 July 1990 on pre-trial detention concerning immediate arrest and introducing a period of security, Nos. 2731/1 to 6; • the attached bill (MM. Philippe Goffin, Richard Miller, Gilles Foret, Jean-Jacques Flahaux and Olivier Chastel) to introduce into the Criminal Code security periods in the event of conviction for criminal acts of extreme gravity, Nos. 663/1 to 4. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-plenair-ip202x.u3	We must proceed with the admission and swearing-in of the successor who is eligible to replace Ms Ann Vanheste, who resigned on 11 December 2017. We must proceed to the admission and swearing-in of the alternate appointed to replace Ms Ann Vanheste, who resigned on December 11, 2017. The successor who will replace her is Mr.Youro Casier, first successor to the West Flanders constituency. The alternate is Mr. Youro Casier, the first alternate in the electoral district of West Flanders. The credentials of Mr Youro Casier were declared valid at our meeting on 19 June 2014. Youro Casier's powers were validated in our June 19, 2014 session. Since the additional examination provided for in Article 235 of the Code of Choice refers exclusively to the maintenance of the eligibility requirements, in the light of the documents obtained, it is a mere formality in the present circumstances. Since the supplementary verification, provided for in article 235 of the Electoral Code, relates only to the preservation of the conditions of eligibility, it appears that this verification has, in view of the documents obtained, only a character of pure formality. I therefore propose that this Member be admitted. I therefore propose that you proceed to the admission of this member. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. I recall the words of the oath: "I swear to comply with the Constitution" "Your judge d'observer la Constitution" "Ich schwöre die Verfassung zu befolgen." I recall the terms of the oath: "I swear to observe the Constitution" "Ik zweer de Grondwet na te leven" "Ich schwöre die Verfassung zu befolgen '. I would ask Mr Youro Casier to take the constitutional oath. I ask Mr. Youro Caser to take the constitutional oath.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-plenair-ip202x.u4	Mr Youro Casier will be part of the Dutch language group. Mr. Youro Casier will be a member of the Dutch language group.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-plenair-ip202x.u5	Mr President, we are going to start an extremely important budgetary debate, probably the last exercise of this government with stakes. My colleagues will be back later. We also know that the government comes out of one of its usual great conclaves, with an alleged agreement on a series of texts; and we learn this morning that there is a huge divergence on the energy pact. All of this brings me back to an exchange that we had this weekend around the Prime Minister's absence at this meeting. It is customary in the House for the Prime Minister to be present for the budget debates. I believe that this habit must be confirmed, which is more so in the current political climate, with, as I said, the problem of the other issues which have allegedly been settled in the conclave, but also with the problem of the energy pact. I've made you proposals. I have envisaged that the Prime Minister may be present tomorrow or part of the day today, since the distance between Paris and Brussels is not so great. It's 1:20 in TGV. I would therefore like to ask you, as Speaker of the House, to intercede with the Prime Minister to join the work of our House, if not this morning, at least this afternoon; if not this afternoon, at least tonight; if not tonight, at least tomorrow. It seems to me that this is a necessity that can be met widely. The political situation demands it. I saw yesterday that he was the only head of state to take over the reindeer after the important meeting that took place in Paris with the French President. All the others were heads of delegation. I think that, in the balance of priorities, it is necessary for the Prime Minister to be here with us to debate, especially when his majority is drawing attention to an extremely important issue, in any case in our view, namely the exit from nuclear power.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-plenair-ip202x.u6	Mr President, I would like to associate myself with the statement made by the Group Leader of Ecolo-Groen. It's one more cacophony, you can say, and one more camouflet for the Prime Minister. Four Energy Ministers reached an agreement. Mrs Marghem has been negotiating for three years, and the N-VA, even before it happens in governments, is putting this agreement to a bad end. Today, we are facing a government problem; it is a Prime Minister problem and this problem needs to be addressed. We need to know where we are going; it is about the future of this country, of consumers, but also of businesses. Therefore, the Prime Minister's presence in this chamber today is not superfluous, it is even indispensable.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-plenair-ip202x.u7	Mr President, of course I agree with what my colleagues have just said. I would like to add that this morning we read in Le Soir that the Prime Minister is beginning to doubt his own coalition agreement. We've been doubting it for a long time. In this particular case, however, that is terrifying. This issue has been under discussion for three years and, in almost every discussion, we have asked, together with the other colleagues in the opposition, whether the core exit will be maintained by 2025. Both Minister Marghem and the Prime Minister have confirmed this on a regular basis, both in committee and from this chair. Because one party is starting to doubt again and draws the map of ENGIE Electrabel, this case needs to be extended again. In my view, it is absolutely necessary for the Prime Minister to explain this.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-plenair-ip202x.u8	Mr President, the budget is first and foremost the translation of all government policy. After making major statements in Paris, after having made selfies with President Macron, barely returned to Brussels, this government is undermining the energy pact for which it took a long time to reach an indispensable consensus. Who's the victim? Citizens and businesses, the issue of security of supply, the issue of the reasonable cost of energy. Since the beginning of the legislature, each step forward is actually two steps backwards. It is a comedy that we play rather than facing the urgency of energy issues. I don't know what game the N-VA is playing and, therefore, what game the government is playing at. I also don't know if all this was already in the little Atoma notebook of the little secrets of the beginning of the legislature. Nevertheless, Mr President, even though the general policy notes are being discussed today, the Prime Minister is letting this big fog glide on the energy pact and we accept this double or triple speech here. The Prime Minister must come and explain himself to the House.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-plenair-ip202x.u9	Mr President, I would like to endorse that. I refer to a long tradition in the Chamber in which prime ministers come to defend their own budget. Jean-Luc Dehaene has always assumed his responsibility and defended his budgets, just because the budget is the translation into figures of government policy. I urge you to respect that long tradition. Moreover, the budget is a translation of the Summer Agreement that was celebrated on Tomorrowland, but of which no one really understood what was to be celebrated. In the end, that has resulted in something we will call the Winter Agreement. In some respects, that agreement is quite cold indeed. In addition, we have questions about the Energy Pact, because we read all kinds of things about it in the media. It would be a good thing for the Prime Minister to answer these questions today or tomorrow. These questions concern not only Mrs Marghem, but indeed the Prime Minister's policy as coordinator in his role as Prime Minister. I therefore also call for the Prime Minister to be present at least at a number of moments in the debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-plenair-ip202x.u10	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am a little surprised by the spectacle of the opposition. Honestly, it's pure hypocrisy from the opposition. Yesterday I had the opportunity to attend the Conference of Presidents as chairman of the Social Affairs Committee. The President himself proposed that today's sitting be moved to next Tuesday, as the Prime Minister could then be present. At that time the opposition rejected the outstretched hand of the majority. Yesterday there was a constructive proposal, but now the opposition is crying that the Prime Minister cannot be present. I think that is very brief. I propose that we proceed to the substance of the matter: the substantive discussion of the budget.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-plenair-ip202x.u11	Mr President, yesterday we discussed this subject in the Conference of Presidents. Mr Nollet's proposal is therefore not a surprise. The Prime Minister is selected in Paris for important meetings related to the fight against terrorism and trafficking in human beings. These matters are also linked to the Sahel and cannot be minimized. As Mr Van Quickenborne pointed out yesterday, we proposed to Mr Nollet that the debate be postponed until next week and that it be held in the presence of the Prime Minister. He refused that proposal. The three senior ministers responsible for the budget are present today and the debate will take place with them. Questions on other subjects, such as the Energy Pact and others, can be asked tomorrow through oral questions. Today, it is the budgetary debate that must take place. I also ask that this debate be held today.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-plenair-ip202x.u12	Before giving the floor again to Mr Nollet, I shall pass the floor to the Government.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-plenair-ip202x.u13	Mr President, I can only repeat the words of the two colleagues who have just spoken, namely the objective description of the facts. First of all, the Prime Minister is in Paris to deal with important issues on the international scene and it seems to me that it is indeed the prime minister's task to represent Belgium on the international stage and certainly when it comes to combating trafficking in human beings or working to combat terrorism. Secondly, Mr Nollet referred to a series of proposals he had made yesterday to ensure that the Prime Minister was present. But he forgets that a counter-proposal was made allowing the Prime Minister to perform his duties on the international stage and, at the same time, to be present at the budget debate next week. This counter-proposal was rejected. With regard to the budget debate, I would like to point out that we have had committees with the Minister of Finance and myself as Minister of Budgets. I do not see how it is possible to continue on this matter today, knowing that the proposals to resolve the problem so ardently raised by Mr Nollet have been rejected.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-plenair-ip202x.u14	Mr President, first of all, on the facts and yesterday's Conference of Presidents. I did indeed make this request yesterday in relation to the budget. What is new, you will admit, is this morning's Evening article, something we didn't know about yesterday. [[Brouhaha on the benches]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-plenair-ip202x.u15	Ladies and gentlemen, let Mr Nollet speak!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-plenair-ip202x.u16	In short, the new developments are, first, the article that appeared this morning in Le Soir; second, internal statements by his majority last night on Terzake. Compared to what was wrong, yesterday – Mr.Clarinval was also present. He knows very well that no consensus has been reached and I am not the one who opposed it. In the Conference of Presidents, however, consensus is imperative. The president himself recalled it. Thirdly, I dare say that three days in Paris is a bit much when (protests on the benches) one looks at the importance of what is being played in Belgium. I am not just talking about the budget but also about the energy pact. Moreover, given the differences within its majority and that Paris is only at 1:20 a.m. in Brussels, if there is no way in three days to find 1:20 a.m. to make the trip to Brussels, in order to discuss with parliamentarians such important issues as that of the energy pact, in this case I think there is indeed a problem of hierarchy of priorities within the government. That's why, Mr. President, I'm looking at you. Not to already activate article 50. We have the time, we have the day and we can wait for the Prime Minister's response. But I am speaking to you, Mr. President, to make a new contact with the Prime Minister – you have the morning to do so – and to come back in the afternoon to tell us if the Prime Minister is going to come back, at the time that suits him best, today or tomorrow, to have a debate in his presence about the issues that I have just identified. I therefore do not request the activation of Article 50 at this stage. I'm just asking that you make contact and come back to us later. So we will be able to judge what we can do later in the day.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-plenair-ip202x.u17	If I understand you correctly, Mr. Nollet, no motion will be introduced immediately.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-plenair-ip202x.u18	Mr President, I would like to add one more thing. Mr Van Quickenborne is always using great words, but speaking of hypocrisy, I find it strange that the Prime Minister is going to President Macron's conference to discuss energy, climate objectives and so on; but the day in our country he is giving an interview in which he actually puts those climate objectives at the forefront. That is hypocrisy, Mr Van Quickenborne!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-plenair-ip202x.u19	Mr President, each of us has had the agenda of the plenary sitting on his couch. Today's debate on the budget and the expenditure budget is on the agenda. The point raised by my fellow Members is not on the agenda today. It can be discussed tomorrow during Question Time, unless an agenda change is proposed. They ask for the Prime Minister's presence tomorrow when the subject could possibly be discussed. The question to the opposition is therefore whether they believe that the Prime Minister should not be present at the European Summit to be held tomorrow. Is that the content of their question? After all, that is the consequence of their proposal. As regards the discussion of the budget, Mr Van Quickenborne was right to point out that the opposition rejected the proposal made yesterday at the Conference of Presidents, in particular to hold the debate next week when the Prime Minister is in the country. We cannot be held responsible for this.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-plenair-ip202x.u20	Mr President, I would like to point out that there is a new element. Mr De Roover, the European summit is only taking place tomorrow at the end of the afternoon. We therefore ask the Speaker of the House that, by tomorrow, the Prime Minister come to explain the N-VA's statements and the energy pact. We ask that there be contact and that we hear from the Prime Minister later today. We want him to assure us of his presence before the European Summit and to explain himself in this plenary session, Mr De Roover. I would remind you that it was the N-VA that made statements and today does not follow the Minister of Energy MR.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-plenair-ip202x.u21	In reply to Mr De Roover, in Dutch so that he certainly understands the question correctly, the following. Mr Nollet and the other colleagues are calling for the total absence of the Prime Minister to be broken this week. He is absent from the budget debate, he is absent from the parliamentary debates on securities tax and corporation tax, and today the Prime Minister is also absent from the debate on the Energy Pact that we should be able to hold here. Hence the question that has been formulated. After all, this morning the Prime Minister flagged back his own energy minister because she concluded an agreement in which the nuclear power stations were closed. The Prime Minister has said from Paris, where we cannot meet and where we cannot interperate him, that he still has doubts about the core exit. That is why, Mr President, we would now like to ask you to look with the Prime Minister when he will be available in the next few minutes or in the next few hours. Given his presence in Paris, not in Lubumbashi, New York or Washington, but in Paris, a suburb of Brussels, he can perfectly stand here in no time. I believe that his statement this morning on the nuclear trip obliges him to do so. I think it is important for him not only to exchange views on this in the press, but also here in Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-plenair-ip202x.u22	Mr President, I hear my colleagues in the majority say that it is the budget that is on the agenda. That's absolutely true. But it's not just the budget. The agenda also includes policy notes. In the policy note on energy, the nuclear exit component is included. So this is the agenda. We cannot deny both the statements made on yesterday's Terzake program and the Prime Minister's remarks this morning, which clearly cast doubts about the release of nuclear power. Ladies and gentlemen, this is at the heart of the discussions on the agenda for this session. Mr President, the Prime Minister is not at the end of the world. He must of course participate in the meetings to which he has committed himself, but it is possible to combine the whole. I would suggest that we have the debate on the energy side with the Prime Minister and also with the competent minister, as soon as the Prime Minister arrives from Paris. This can be at 5:00 p.m., 6:00 p.m., 7:00 p.m. It can be at midnight. Whatever it is, it must be available. It's on the agenda. We will discuss a general policy note for which, ultimately, there is a whole chapter that is clearly questioned by a government party; there are also serious doubts raised this morning by the Prime Minister himself.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-plenair-ip202x.u23	Colleagues, I have not received a formal motion. We must therefore not vote. In addition, I will ask the services to contact the Prime Minister's office to review his availability by 4:00 p.m. tomorrow, something like that. I will, of course, inform you of what I have heard in this connection. Having said that, I suggest that we begin the budgetary discussion nonetheless.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-plenair-ip202x.u24	I propose that a single discussion be devoted to these draft budgets. I propose that you devote a single discussion to these draft budgets.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-plenair-ip202x.u25	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-plenair-ip202x.u26	The rapporteurs are Messrs. Van de Velde et Laaouej. They refer to their written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-plenair-ip202x.u27	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, we have arrived in plenary for our discussion on the 2018 budget. As I say at the outset, our discussion and debate will be biased by the fact that your government has fallen behind – it is an understatement! – in the introduction of bills which are nevertheless intrinsically and politically linked to the budget, in particular the reform of corporate tax and the tax on securities accounts. Is there therefore anyone in this House who will not admit that the budgetary impacts of corporate tax reform are so important that it should have been discussed at the same time as the budget? Unfortunately, this has not been possible. You have made another choice, as a result of your delays and foresight. With regard to this budget, the first notable fact is, of course, the postponement of the balance beyond 2018. Yet it was one of your mantras: the return to balance in 2018. As early as 2014, we said, "Be careful! We told you your tax shift was not funded. And we told you to pay attention to the bad reports of the Court of Auditors. You said at the time, "Return effect, don't worry!" Three years later, you are in a situation of budget failure and forced to give up balance in 2018. You've changed your speech. Today, you say that you do not want to slow the recovery, even though Belgium's economic growth rate is lower than the euro area average. We've been telling you for at least three years. Nothing has improved! Does it not come to mind that it is your economic and budgetary policy that has slowed the recovery? This is the paradox today: to justify that you do not return to balance, you invoke a cause that you have caused yourself, namely a reviving in dungeon! This budget, like all those that have been tabled by your government, is inconceivable and misleading. We said it in committee. We say it again here. You take a macroeconomic parameter different from that indicated to you by both the National Accounts Institute and the Federal Planning Office or the National Bank. You take 1.8% growth rate instead of 1.7% economic growth. You do this, it must be stressed, despite the law that requires you to take the parameters of the Institute of National Accounts, itself dependent on the forecasts of the National Bank and the Office of the Plan. You prefer, in doing so, to respond to the sirens of the FEB, which, in fact, looks at 1.8%. This is not the first and certainly not the last time you blindly follow the FEB. Instead of reserving a good surprise for budgetary control, you choose the facility you call "optimism", which I call "irresponsibility". This makes you gain 368 million euros, of which act. We challenge them from a methodological point of view, but also from a point of view of sound budgetary management. A second adventurous choice you make is that you sweep the European Commission's forecasts and analyses of the evolution of the structural balance from one side to the other. With regard to the forecast differences between your trajectory and that of the Commission, it is a 0.4% differential of structural deficit GDP that we are talking about in 2018, that is more than €2 billion which, according to the Commission, is missing from your 2018 budget. Your argument is that, in the past, the Commission's figures have been denied by the achievements. I want to turn the argument back on you. How many times have you, the federal government, been wrong? Do I have to recall the saga of personal income tax revenues from the regions which you had underestimated by more than 750 million euros and which, over time, have become 600 million euros? Do I have to recall the methodological uncertainties with regard to the assessment of tax revenues, to such an extent that you had to predict a buffer, given the uncertainty. Do we have to talk about all the criticisms here? A report from the Court of Auditors on the chronic overestimation of the performance of the new measures would be needed. Is the case of excise duties sufficient for you or should I also talk about the tax regularization and the opacity of the Cayman tax? Should I spare you the reminder of the redesign of the administration, which was supposed to bring you, at cruising speed, more than 700 million euros and which have now completely disappeared. In short, you are not in a position to be so light about the figures put forward by the European Commission. We have always been clear: we do not adhere to the Commission's fiscal fetishism, especially when it translates into a policy of austerity. However, we consider that you are not in a position to sweep the figures and estimates of the same institution with a backhand. However, this one sends you very visible signals. I am thinking, for example, of the tax on securities accounts. The Commission urges you not to retain EUR 254 million, but EUR 175 million, a difference of EUR 79 million. She also asks you to reduce the estimate of the return on the fight against tax fraud for at least 25 million. She also tells you that the additional 100 million you are expecting from the real estate investment funds are not serious. The same Commission doubts – and this is very important – the so-called budgetary neutrality of the reduction of social contributions in the construction sector and again believes that the expected cost is at least 100 million. With regard to tax regularization, she doubts your figures – and in this case, the facts already give her reason – when she observes the situation in 2017 and urges you to reduce the wing by at least 175 million.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-plenair-ip202x.u28	Mr President, I hear the list of grievances relayed by my colleague. However, when I asked the Commission that it was playing "vogelpik" in its way of calculating revenue, it was unable to answer and explain the method it followed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-plenair-ip202x.u29	Mr President, we will submit Mr Piedboeuf's comments to the European Commission...
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-plenair-ip202x.u30	No problem, since I did it myself!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-plenair-ip202x.u31	No doubt she'll be impressed...
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-plenair-ip202x.u32	I have done so myself, Mr Laaouej, and I confirm that the representative of the Commission has not been able to justify his figures.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-plenair-ip202x.u33	And it seemed to impress him, Mr. Piedboeuf. I remember it as if it were yesterday! The Commission also estimates that you are inflating your figures with regard to the performance of the measure relating to the retention of older workers for at least EUR 32 million. Let us add the uncertainties raised by the Court of Auditors, because – you see, Mr Piedboeuf – the European Commission is not the only one who doubts your figures: there is also the Court of Auditors. With you, of course, when the institutions do not align with your figures, it is because they are wrong. So you have a chronic inability to question yourself. I take note of this, but it does not guarantee a return to balance in 2018 or even 2019. I believe, on the contrary, that if you persevere in this direction, you will continue to lead the state's accounts. You just have to remember from time to time that behind them there is the portfolio of our fellow citizens! As far as the Court of Auditors is concerned, there is also a proliferation of uncertainties and approximations. This is how, by means of a pencil, you have re-aligned, without explanation, the yield of old measures – more or less 100 million euros for the money transfers that you describe, moreover, as tax fraud in your tables. We're wondering in the name of what. We don't know. This may happen in the corporate tax reform project. But today, we don't have it. You are adding €50 million related to the reform introduced by Minister Geens on the criminal transaction. Here, again, you draw plans on the comet. It's one more bet. You're adding another 50 million – it's the pompon! – under the Cayman tax, a so-called transparent tax. But nothing is more obscure because you do not provide the means to assess the performance of this tax since you refuse to enter and include a separate code in the return. You're putting in 50 million euros. This is unverifiable, according to the Court of Auditors. This is "volgelpik," Mr. Piedboeuf! It is an opacity that you deliberately maintain and that shows all your discomfort since you refuse, despite the opposition's requests, to provide a separate code in the declaration. Despite the disastrous experience of increasing excise duty on spirits with a decrease in revenue from cross-border purchases, you continue to raise consumption taxes by counting on revenues of several tens of millions of euros, including 75 million on sodas. If this is not punitive taxation, we will have to explain it to us! It's so easy to go "taper" in the pockets of households and families in particular. What are all these failures for? We can ask ourselves. You don't learn any lessons from it. Let us continue, however, this catalog of aberrations with the famous measure of the 500 euros per month defiscalized, deparafiscalized. The FPS Finance, in a note transmitted to the Court of Auditors, expects a loss of EUR 109 million in social contributions and EUR 42.5 million in tax revenue, which amounts to a total of EUR 150 million. It doesn't seem to stop you. You consider that here too, by magic, the return effects will allow you to regain balance. Nothing is more false, of course! So when you add up the 2 billion you are missing – it is the Commission that says so – with all the questionable and contested returns from these new or old measures that are revalued according to your terms, you get to a budget hole of more than 3 billion euros. That's what you're missing in the 2018 budget! It is three billion euros that you refer to later, marking the irresponsibility of your management of public finances. From the outset, this management was marked by impostures, by the non-financing of the tax shift, also pointed out by the European Commission and, before it, by the National Bank. Today it has become a budgetary ball that you will drag to the end of this legislature, and far beyond! It is on this basis that, chaotically, you are preparing to present us with a reform of corporate tax with a budget of five billion euros. The National Bank speaks of a plausible hypothesis, but when asked to certify budgetary neutrality, it prefers to say that there is more and less. She prefers to say that she does not have a model to assess the issue, referring responsibility to FPS Finance. She herself agrees to work on a static and non-dynamic model. In short, she invites you to be careful. Notwithstanding this, you continue to move forward. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that three quarters of the financing of your corporate tax reform is based on two measures: the elimination of notional interests and the transposition of European directives aimed at limiting the erosion of tax bases. On notional interest, you depend on the evolution of interest rates at ten years. Who today can assure us that these rates will evolve upwards, as you claim in your budget cuts? No one can tell. No one is in the secrecy of the European Central Bank. However, you are relying on almost 50% of this measure to finance your corporate tax reform. As far as the transposition of directives is concerned, everything will depend on the extent to which you give it, but above all on the behaviour of economic agents. For if there is one thing that history tells us, it is that in terms of the corporate tax base, there is a cyclical effect and an effect dependent on the behaviour of economic agents. All this, you sweep it away! The Court of Auditors itself does not fail to remind you that your estimates are based on the figures of 2014 or 2015, which, in the field of corporate taxation, is already a matter of antiquity because this base is particularly cyclical and linked to the immediate and contemporary effects. It is sufficient to see the continuing evolution of the international environment, the price of raw materials, the tax environment and a range of other macroeconomic parameters. In short, you take the risk – a heavy responsibility! – to sustainably and structurally threaten our public accounts. With this other measure that the National Bank validates at 500 million euros after the SPF Finances has given it its notes, no one is able to attest that this figure will not be higher. In doing so, you create a new tax game for tax advisors of all kinds, and in particular those who advise large groups that will also allow corporate tax revenues to be emptied. For all these reasons, we invite you to be very careful. Especially when it comes to spending, it's no better. Once again, the Court of Auditors points to sacrificed departments, justice in particular. In the debate on the state of the Union, I was already referring to the closure of the Registry of the Court of First Instance in Brussels on the grounds of insanity. Now it must be discovered that on Mons' side, magistrates and lawyers are organizing a collection to finance the purchase of a defibrillator. That is where we stand: a disaster-stricken department that challenges and threatens the exercise of the fundamental rights of our fellow citizens. We will have the opportunity to return to this in the thematic interventions. A word about health care. There too, there would be a lot to say. Your government is now acting cautiously, and because of this, health care has tripled in 2017 - 900 million euros of savings -, a growth standard of just 0.5%, that is one third of the budgetary effort to be made and that you have focused on our social security, specifically our health care. The consequences for patients, especially the most fragile, are still being felt today and will still be felt tomorrow: an increase in the price of antibiotics, an end to the reimbursement of corticosteroids, nasal sprays, an increase in the price of anti-acid medicines, a reduction in the reimbursement of certain medicines, a reduction in the reimbursement of kinesitherapy for people with fribromyalgia, indexation of the ceilings of the MAF and I pass. There are also all these savings on hospitals as they are changing as a result of the reform of the hospital landscape. There is also this decision to freeze new applications for recognition for the opening of medical homes, while recent studies show that, without these medical homes, a significant number of people in need could not be treated. They are no longer even mentioned in the Minister's policy note. That's deplorable! As no one has been spared by your dark cuts, there have also been impressive savings on the fees of health care providers, who quickly demonstrated their ras-le-bol. Negotiations on conventions and agreements have never been more difficult. So we've had a real break in trust. By all means, you are trying to make us believe that our health care is being spared. However, new initiatives are even being taken to strengthen this unacceptable sluggishness. You tell us that you have returned to the growth standard – 1.5% I remind you – and that you have fully made available the indexing mass. You say that the 2018 budget will be about 776 million euros higher than in 2017. Let me remind you that the technical estimates set the level of requirements at $238 million above the budget and that this budget is still well below the normal 2.2 per cent requirements set by the Planning Office. Perhaps this is where you are going to move forward on your proposed future reimbursement for psychological care – 22.5 million, you say – a budget that will certainly not be able to meet the growing needs in this area. In short, on health, we see, the dark cuts extend and reinforce to the detriment of the patients. There would also be a lot to say about the investment plan for which we always wonder how it will be financed and what the Prime Minister is wearing. The Prime Minister announces a €5 billion bond fund raising to finance the energy transition. We're wondering how he's gonna do it. I guess he might come over later and explain it to us. We are curious to know the developments. We can also deplore and condemn the motives, Mr. Minister of Finance, which lead you to sell the assets of the state, especially Belfius. You are obviously at a loss, unable to absorb the structural deficit. You have to give pledges on the field of debt relief. The only solution you find is to resell financial assets, but you are not yet able to tell us whether or not the loss of dividends will be offset by lower interest charges. No one believes in it and, at this stage, we are still waiting for a demonstration. Colleagues, the only thing the government has left to try to get away with is to advance its supposed employment results. Here too, your imposture is unmasked. From the beginning, you have attributed the National Bank's forecast for the period 2017 to 2022, i.e. the creation of an average of 65,000 employment units per year. You mention an improvement in the employment rate of 0.5% from 2015 to 2016, from 67.2% to 67.7%. I will make several observations. As the National Bank and the Planning Office have always shown, even with unchanged policy, employment is created. I refer you to the forecasts of both the National Bank and the 2014 Plan Office: in 2014, 19,000 additional units; in 2015, 42,000 units; in 2016, 59,000 units. A total of 120,000 units that you cannot assign to your shift tax whose cruise speed effects will only occur in 2019 and whose actual start date is actually at the end of 2016, beginning 2017.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-plenair-ip202x.u34	Mr Laaouej, the debate on the substance of public health will follow later, but I would like to briefly correct your exhaustive list of measures in the sense that the FPS Economy is wrong about the prices of medicines, which have fallen globally. In your speech, you cite some phenomena and measures and you point to increased prices, but you have not mentioned at all the global measures, which are important and have the greatest impact on most of the medicines, such as the patent cliff, and which the Minister has taken. So you are making a very one-sided speech, in which, as always, you give very one-sided, completely incomplete information. You have not outlined the overall impact on the budget and on what people have to pay. I'm sorry to hear that. I would be happy to discuss the measures, but you will have to outline them in their completeness and their overall impact. I find it strange that you only give a part of the information and outline a one-sided and, above all, incorrect story. The same applies to the indexation of wages, which will finally be applied to healthcare providers in 2018, just because resources are being made available. That has never happened in your public health policy, because linear savings have always been made throughout the sector, which has just brought us into these problems today and has caused so much money to be lost and not to the sick. Finally, as regards your comments on the reimbursement of a psychologist, you claim that far too little is being done, but you have had that ministerial post for so long, why did you not achieve that reimbursement?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-plenair-ip202x.u35	Mrs Van Camp, do you dispute the increase in the price of antibiotics? Are you in dispute with the increase in the price of nasal sprays? Do you contest the reduction in the reimbursement of physiotherapy costs for people with fibromyalgia? Are you in dispute with all the elements I have mentioned? You don't dispute them. This means that these things have taken place, that they have a negative impact on a number of patients. These are things you have done and you have to take care of! It is too easy to say that we must see the macro-budgetary aspects and whether the paths are evolving globally! People don't care if certain positions are evolving globally! People, when they go to the pharmacist, they see it's more expensive! When they go to the doctor or to the kine, they see that it's more expensive! That is the real life, Mrs Van Camp! Not your absolute figures, which represent absolutely nothing!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-plenair-ip202x.u36	Mr Laaouej, I would like to add one more element to your very clear list, in particular the dismantling of district health centres. They provide the most democratic and the most effective direct healthcare. In Ghent there are a lot of district health centres and the figures show that they are the way to deal with health, especially for people who are having a hard time. Well, that's exactly what the government's done. So don't tell me that one is in favour of a health care system that is accessible to everyone when the most accessible system, which is recognised by all the studies, is being phased out.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-plenair-ip202x.u37	Yes, I had forgotten in this list of course also the increase in the price of antacids, which hit a large number of patients hard.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-plenair-ip202x.u38	Mr President, I would like to add something to Mr Laaouej's remarks. Even if we consider the health care budget from a macro-budgetary point of view, it must be noted that a budget item has exploded, namely that of drugs and negotiations between the Minister of Health and pharmaceutical companies. Urgent measures had to be taken to limit and control this budgetary explosion. It was all other sectors that had to make savings to keep the overall budget in balance. Even by looking at the health care budget in a macro way, budgets have obviously exploded in certain sectors and it is the community health professionals, and obviously the poorest patients, who have suffered the consequences to ensure the standard desired by the government.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-plenair-ip202x.u39	Mrs Gerkens, I did not want to venture into the macro-budgetary field. I leave it to Mrs Van Camp, but I can take up the aggregate figures for the health care cuts that will take place under her legislature. This is particularly impressive! Health care alone: 2.6 billion euros! That is the result of your policy, Mrs Van Camp! So whether you're going back macro-budgetary or raising the price of certain drugs, anyway, the numbers are wrong. Sorry to tell you! I'm taking over the employment component. I was therefore saying that, even with unchanged policy, the employment curve is still on the rise. Professor De Grauwe, Professor Peersman, has demonstrated this very well. This means that because of slight economic growth, you have a job creation. What is important to consider is whether the creation of these jobs is due to your tax shift. The question is there! In this regard, I would like to recall what the National Bank said in a note addressed to the government, which reviewed the evolution of economic parameters on the basis of reforms undertaken by the government. I quote: "As an amount of EUR 4.7 billion, or about 0.9% of GDP is not financed by the tax shift, in the calculations relating to the tax shift scenario, whether it is the impact on economic growth, the volume of employment, etc., the overall result is biased." It's an August 2017 note. You will find this passage on page 4, 1st indent. This means that the National Bank does not know what the negative effects will be of the measures you will take to fill your gaps, whether they are new taxes or cuts that will lead to domestic, private or public demand, and thus employment. This also means that the National Bank is not fooled and it knows that your tax shift is a budgetary ball that does not have the expected return effects, and that therefore you have deliberately created a budget bubble that artificially embellishes your forecasts of job creation and effect on GDP growth. Again about the National Bank, again to try to determine the share of jobs that find their cause in the tax shift, I quote what Mrs De Wachter, director of the National Bank, said in the Knack of 14 November 2017: "In 2016, only 4,700 jobs were created thanks to the tax shift. In 2017, 7,800 find their cause in the tax shift." And it's looking at 7,100 jobs for 2018. This represents 8%, 11% and 15% of the jobs created for 2016, 2017 and 2018, respectively. And it's said by a director of the National Bank. Should I remind you, Minister, of the budgetary cost of the shift tax until 2017? You yourself have quoted in the press the figure of 4.4 billion euros. Since your government took office until today, the budget cost of the tax shift is €4.4 billion. And by 2019, an additional 4.9 billion will be added. A total of 9.3 billion. Colleagues, do I have to make you a fraction of the cost per job created in 2016 and 2017, with a tax shift budget cost of €4.4 billion per year? The fraction is very simple: 4.4 billion divided by 12,500 jobs, the sum of the jobs that would find their cause in the tax shift in 2016 and 2017, which makes 352,000 euros the job. It's upbuilding! I therefore urge you to stop annoying, whenever you are in budgetary, economic and recovery difficulties, 'Yes, but we have created jobs'. With what? "With our policy." We have just demonstrated, with the National Bank, that this is not true, and that the budgetary cost is enormous for a relatively marginal job creation, creating jobs that you attribute to the tax shift in a totally misleading and misleading way. Another point on the field of employment always. When we look at Eurostat's data, both in terms of the development of the employment rate and the development of internal employment, we see that your government does, each time, less well than the average of the European countries. With an employment rate of 67.7%, we are first of all far from the target of 73.2% agreed with Europe for 2020 but, above all, we are clearly below the average of 71.1% of the European Union countries. But the main thing is that both the growth of domestic employment and the growth of the employment rate are clearly stronger in the other countries of the European Union than in Belgium. For example, the employment rate increases twice as fast in the euro area as in Belgium, i.e. 1% in the euro area compared to 0.5% in Belgium. The same applies to developments in domestic employment. You're doing less well than the euro zone. Here too, we can give you figures. So whether it's about the employment rate or the evolution of the absolute number of domestic jobs, you're doing less well than the other countries. The reality is that it is the international situation that mainly explains the creation of jobs and not the reforms that you have carried out. Professor Peersman of Ghent University said nothing else. It clearly shows that the jobs created are created mainly because of the economic situation and the international environment. It does so with an international comparison to show that other countries are doing much better than we do. This is a demonstration that I invite you to read again.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-plenair-ip202x.u40	Mr Laaouej, you are referring to the study of the National Bank. I read that from the start of the tax shift in 2016 to 2020 job creation is estimated at 56 000. In its macroeconomic approach, the National Bank says that a quarter of the new jobs are due to the tax shift. Of course, there is the international economic situation, but the government has made our economy more competitive because of the measures it has taken in terms of competitiveness, with the index jump and the social contribution reduction, and the growth of the economy is determined by exports and investment in Belgium. I have the credit bank's figures on exports with me. It will rise by 5% next year. Investment will also increase by 3 to 4%. The engine has started internationally, but the tax shift creates a quarter more jobs and we have now become more competitive than before. Surely you cannot ignore the fact that we create 50 000 jobs a year. In five years' time, that will be 250 000 jobs. I thought you, as a socialist, should be happy that 250 000 jobs will be added and that purchasing power will increase by 2.1 percent in real disposable income. I don't understand your discourse. The real disposable income of the population is rising by 2% and there are 250 000 jobs added and you speak of a social catastrophe. That is the essence of your discourse, which I do not agree with at all.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-plenair-ip202x.u41	I would remind my fellow Members of the agreement that interruptions should be limited to two minutes. I give the floor to Mr Bogaert.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-plenair-ip202x.u42	Mr President, I fully endorse what Mr Van Rompuy has said. The question is, of course, what is the alternative for the government? That alternative has your party rolled out in your congress over the last few days and weeks. The alternative is the 32-hour working week, which we know does not cost EUR 40 billion once, but EUR 40 billion each year. That's more than the entire federal budget you're putting forward as an alternative. You say that the budget is not in order, but your alternative costs 40 billion and is not financed at all. What credibility do you have to say in the debate that the figures are wrong? That doesn't just apply to your party. Also PTB-GO! Green and Ecolo make the proposal of the 32-hour working week, sp.a makes a proposal that lies between the two. That story costs EUR 40 billion, which means that the economy is shrinking by 20%. When the economy shrinks by 20%, pensions, social security and health care also shrink by 20%. Everything in the country goes down by 20 percent. That proposal is just announced at a major conference. A week later, you state here in the chair that there is too little money for health care. You'll have to dare!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-plenair-ip202x.u43	Mr Van Rompuy, it seems to me that you did not listen to me. I started by putting forward the two main arguments that you regularly mobilise to justify the budget failure in which you are now and also the efforts and austerity that you have inflicted on our fellow citizens. I started by saying that you are allocating the National Bank's forecast for the period 2017 to 2022 with the creation of an average of 65,000 jobs per year. If you multiply by five, we get to your impressive figure! It's an average that's about weighting. Then I suggested you look deeper to see what is actually related to your tax shift. On this subject, I said two things. First, the National Bank tells us, in a note from August 2017, on page 4, 1st indent: "As an amount of 4.7 billion is not financed in the calculations, the overall result is biased." What does the National Bank mean? The National Bank makes forecasts. She explains what will happen in 2021 and 2022, the day after tomorrow. On the basis of the proposed scenarios (tax shift reducing social contributions and personal tax, etc.)), the National Bank provides for certain amounts. This does not mean that the economy has waited for you to turn! The economy is not just about the federal government's tax shift or the decisions you have made on it. The economy is entrepreneurs and workers who rise every morning to go to work. This is also the economy. The National Bank applies a model, which takes into account the economic reality, to which it adds some of your measures. Then she does a simulation. But the National Bank warns that since the tax shift is not financed, the figures are biased. What does she mean? She knows that you will have to make the effort to return to budgetary balance and notes that your budgetary return effects are not on track. She knows you'll have to make a whole series of decisions. There are no quantities: taxes on consumption, which are still found in the current budget, cuts in social security and in public services. These measures will affect citizens' income, redistribution, private and public demand. All these measures will have a negative impact on macroeconomic forecasts and results. You're talking about forecasts; I'm talking about concrete results. And then there are the statements of Mrs. De Wachter of the National Bank. You tell me about this institution; I answer you by quoting its director. She identified the jobs attributable to the tax shift in 2016, 2017 and, she says, in 2018. Here, we can see that this aspect is marginal in relation to a budget cost of more than 4 billion – an amount that has already been committed. Here's my demonstration, Mr. Van Rompuy! You're talking about forecasts; I'm talking about achievements. We will never agree on one point: you are in prophecy; I am in reality.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-plenair-ip202x.u44	La réalité de l'interview de Mme De Wachter dans le Knack: "52 100 extra jobs in the period between 2015 and 2020 on top of normal job growth is not nothing. The reduction in the employer's contribution, partly aimed at low wages, provides the most new jobs at the lowest possible budgetary cost. The tax shift is therefore a very efficient measure." I read what I read anyway. We must not put words in Mrs De Wachter's mouth.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-plenair-ip202x.u45	But keep reading.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-plenair-ip202x.u46	Mr Laaouej, I have also said it a few times in committee, the financing of the tax shift remains a problem, even for next year. I've never denied that. On the other hand, anyone who thought global revenue would fall in 2017 was wrong. They've gone up by almost 6%. For 2017, employment contributed to the financing of the budget through the farm levy and advance payments. Your reasoning is therefore far from correct. I'm not a man of great prophecies. On the contrary, I am basing myself on the real figures and on the real issues that we were able to detect very clearly during the committee discussions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-plenair-ip202x.u47	We will not agree, Mr Van Rompuy. I repeat that I am talking about concrete, tangible achievements as you project yourself in forecasts from the National Bank, which itself says that half of the tax shift is not financed. This means that a sword of Damocles weighs on the shoulders of our public finances, that at some point you will have to solve this problem and that it will again pass through sacrifices that you will impose either on public demand or on our fellow citizens. And you will have to explain to me how, by asphyxiating, for example, private demand, how, by asphyxiating and assuming people with taxes or cuts in health care, we improve the support of recovery. It's a quadrature, Mr. Van Rompuy, you're not going out of. I can understand that you are clinging to macroeconomic forecasts, but I invite you to come back to the reality of the figures and the achievements. We are now half-way through the legislature. In 2014 and 2015, each of them went to the figure of working hypotheses. According to you, the National Bank had spoken of 200,000 jobs, etc., to which you were told: "Warning, budget break!" Now we have the achievements and even that, you don't want to take into account. Yes, there are additional jobs. There is a mass of jobs that, in any case, are created regardless of the policies pursued because, simply, the economy does not wait for the Michel government to get on the road and work. In addition, there are the measures you have introduced, but you are told how much they need to be balanced because of budgetary bias. I will not go back to that point.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-plenair-ip202x.u48	May I ask you to conclude?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-plenair-ip202x.u49	You're asking me to conclude, Mr. President, but I've been interrupted several times.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-plenair-ip202x.u50	I give you another 10 minutes of speaking time.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-plenair-ip202x.u51	Mr Van Rompuy, I invite you to review Professor Peersman's work. But maybe you'll tell me he's wrong too. The University of Ghent is wrong too! You're free to claim it. As far as I am concerned, I do not think so, because they agree with the findings of the National Bank, according to which most jobs are sourced in the international context and in the international environment. Unfortunately, I do not have time to take stock of all the false good reasons that prove you wrong. However, let me address the issue of disposable income, because it is one of the other anti-women who... [[(...): (...)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-plenair-ip202x.u52	I would like to reply, but in this case my speaking time must be extended.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-plenair-ip202x.u53	I invite you to sue Mr. Laaouej.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-plenair-ip202x.u54	I don't have a problem. I had a party that had proposed a 20 billion euro tax reform during the election campaign. There was an error in the simulators. In terms of numbers, when one has sheltered in her own majority Mrs Galant, I am not sure that one is in a good position to give lessons in this area. I am responding to ad hominem arguments. Tell Mr Bogaert, who is pulling the debate down! I can't help it. I'd like to continue, Mr. President. Mr Bogaert, I have heard you in committee criticising the government and, in particular, the Minister for Budgets by taking the European Commission as an argument. This does not prevent you from remaining in the benches of the majority. In terms of incoherence, I don't know if you're as well placed to do the lesson.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-plenair-ip202x.u55	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-plenair-ip202x.u56	No problem! Mr President, I would like to respond, it will take me 10 minutes or a quarter of an hour, but...
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-plenair-ip202x.u57	You're pursuing, Mr. Laaouej.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-plenair-ip202x.u58	Mr Bogaert, you can imagine for a moment that we are going to decline any form of debate. Not only do we assume it, but we demand it. Look at you like anyone else, we'll tell you why it's a very good idea.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-plenair-ip202x.u59	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-plenair-ip202x.u60	Of course, Mr Bogaert! At the same time, I don't have the impression that your analyses are very well heard. Nor do I want a debate that leads to nothing. I would like to debate it, but on the basis of facts and figures. Mr Van Rompuy, as far as disposable income is concerned, I have taken advantage of these days to refine your thinking. It consisted of saying: "You are wrong. Respendable revenues have increased." It is true that I always said that the index jump was equivalent to a $12.5 billion puncture on the payroll. It's huge. On an average wage, this represents a reduction of 400 euros per year per worker. That's a lot. Add to this the taxes on consumption! All of this did not commit to increasing respendable revenues. Plus the increase in the price of medicines, cuts in health care, etc. You've weakened the position. You say, "That's not true! Look, the National Bank says that by 2019 there will be a 2.7% increase in disposable income!" So I quote the National Bank about its macroeconomic forecasts: "Disposable income will increase by 2.7% in 2019," but she adds: "This increase is again neutralized by financing initiatives by 1.1% due to both rising indirect taxes and non-work-related financing. By balance, the tax shift scenario shows an increase in household disposable income of 1.6% in 2019." However, I would add an additional element because last time we had not had the opportunity to complete the analysis. What is the share of capital and labour income in the increase in household income? A methodological way of identifying the issue is to identify the evolution of salary per employee. In other words, it is to see how the salary per employee has evolved over the period. Well, Mr Van Rompuy, I'm sorry to tell you that on the basis of the European Commission figures from 9 November 2017, over the period 2015 to 2019, there is a loss of 1%. This means that the salary per employee has decreased by 1%. I have the numbers. We can pass them on to you. What does that mean? This means looking elsewhere for the increase in disposable income, which, moreover, gives only a general indication, does not indicate any redistribution or distribution between income categories. This is something that I have often drawn your attention to. You increase indirect taxes, so you decrease the redistributive effect of taxation. This means that it is something else that is increasing and, in particular, the income of capital. This can be seen, in fact, by the overall increase in capital income.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-plenair-ip202x.u61	Mr Laaouej, I've waited a long time to intervene, but you're still wearing pieces and pieces. The reality is that due to the policy of this government, due to the tax shift, there have been more jobs. More jobs have been added than would have happened if the tax shift had not been introduced. That is the reality. That's confirmed. Mr Laaouej, if someone who had a benefit yesterday has a job tomorrow and if the salary he gets for that job is lower than the average wage spent on the workers, then the average wage of the workers will fall, which is true, but there is someone more at work and that person has a higher income than he had when he had a benefit. That is also a reality. It is a reality that despite everything you have said here, the tax burden has fallen.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-plenair-ip202x.u62	Mr Laaouej, I would like to ask you to answer a very simple question very briefly. Do you want to live in 2013 Belgium with a debt ratio going through the roof, with a total tax rate of 52.7 percent, with a negative trade balance, with a negative internal spending and high unemployment? Or do you choose Belgium in 2017, where we lower the debt rate, where we reduced the tax rate to 50.1 percent, with a positive trade balance, with growing exports, with a negative investment rate in 2013 that went to +3, +4 in 2017 and will grow in 2018, with an internal spending that grows by 1.7 percent, which makes all your story of that negative purchasing power incorrect? Mr Laaouej, give me a simple answer. Do you choose Belgium of 2013 with these mottious figures or do you choose Belgium of 2017 with which we are European leaders? It's up to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-plenair-ip202x.u63	I think, Mr Van de Velde, that, with regard to the situation in 2013, some of you in the current majority probably remember – because we had to manage them together and make courageous decisions – the effects of unbridled finance, of a finance that caused colossal damage. Damage which, moreover, is still being felt today. Because, today, we have to face the need to clean up our public finances and to de-indebted the State, because in a few months the Belgian government's debt rate has increased by more than 20%. Indeed, it was necessary to bail out the banking sector with liquidity that we did not have. So we had to borrow at interest rates that, at the time, went up to 5% or 6%. Remember the epic of the Leterme loan! That's right, ladies and gentlemen of the CD&V! In short, we were in a context of growing public debt and public finances, driven by an economic crisis, itself a consequence of a financial sector crisis. Yes, Mr. Van de Velde, we just need to remember the chronology of events. I repeat that interest rates were particularly high. These rates had nothing in common with what you know today, since they are, at present, almost symbolic. And in spite of everything, you are unable to address the structural deficit in the path in which you committed yourself, namely to bring the balance back in 2018. And then, I also, perhaps, have to remind you of two or three other elements that seem to me to be quite important. Indeed, the situation was extremely difficult during the previous parliamentary term, but despite everything, we had a higher rate of growth than that of the euro area. Yes, Mr. Van de Velde! This is not the case with your current government!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-plenair-ip202x.u64	So I note that you are pleased that you are currently living in a country where all these parameters are no longer in the red. That is, of course, regrettable for your ideological thoughts, but that all these parameters are perfectly green. I note that you actually agree with that, and I think that is a good conclusion.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-plenair-ip202x.u65	Mr Van de Velde, this is rhetoric! Who have I not answered yet...? Mr. Klaps! Did I say that there had been no job creation? Did anyone hear that I would have said that? There are job creations. I minimize the cause of job creation related to tax shift. In other words, I contest the fact that decisively it would be due to the tax shift. For the rest – because in the end, it's something I had stifled – we had a big debate about the quality of the jobs created. I have been reread the latest ONSS figures on the quality of these jobs. Unfortunately, you have a dominant share of part-time jobs. Add to this all the precarised jobs that you develop, that you continue to develop. There are flexi-jobs, of course, but my colleague Mrs Kitir regularly goes up to the gallery to denounce the Deliveroo system. There is the uberisation of employment and you can add to that what you are also preparing with your measure on the occasional work of 6000 euros. So you're expanding the field of insecurity. Not only are the jobs you claim to create with the tax shift not at the time in the proportions you claim, but in addition, you open the valves of job precarization. That's the record of your government, Mr. Klaps. So I answered about disposable income. There is a deterioration in salary per employee. This clearly means that in the remainder of the increase in disposable income, one must certainly see an increase in capital income, to a large extent, which is distributed unevenly. I would remind you of the study by the National Bank, which states that in Belgium only 11% of households own listed shares; to take another figure, stock capital is concentrated in the hands of 15% of the population. Colleagues, as we can see, the government's economic and fiscal policy leads to very poor results. Public accounts are in a state of great insecurity; you are not doing well. There is nothing to attribute to your reforms the job creation that you boast about. The salary per employee is in decline over the period 2015-2019. You increase the disposable income of capital, but you decrease the income of labour. You are increasing consumption taxes in record terms. You will make, with the index jump, a puncture on the payroll of 12.5 billion over the period 2015-2019. And you will save more than €6.5 billion on social security over the same period. You sabbed more than three billion euros in the SNCB budget. I will not recall here the state of disrepair of justice, because it would take several hours to talk about it. That's all your austerity policy! You are a double failure – budgetary and economic – while at the same time degrading the social rights of workers and their social protection. Fiscal, economic and social insecurity: you are the government of precariousness. For the benefit of our fellow citizens, we will vote without hesitation against your budget and against your policy.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-plenair-ip202x.u66	Ladies and gentlemen, I would simply like to inform you that Mr Laaouej has been in the gallery for exactly 57 minutes. Mr. Laaouej was in the gallery for 57 minutes but there were interruptions for a total of 14 minutes. All I'm doing is raising speaking times. We are therefore far from what had been agreed. I would point out, but we have time because this is an important debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-plenair-ip202x.u67	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, before I start discussing the 2018 budget, allow me to return to my first days in the green seats of the Chamber. That was 2010, together with many members of my group and a number of members of other groups: we had just seen the banking crisis, the sovereign debt crisis came up again, we had saved Dexia for a second time and then the Di Rupo government came up. During its term of office, Di Rupo had reduced the structural deficit from 4.1 per cent of gross domestic product to 3.1 per cent, i.e. an improvement of 1% of GDP. She did so because of what she called savings, savings that actually caused the government's seizure to rise to 55.1 percent. That's a little contradictory, if you ask me. The tax burden was also increased by 2.7 per cent of GDP to a killing level of 52%. The previous government was actually characterised by a southern European mentality. How did other countries do that? If we compare this period, we see that in the Netherlands the deficit was reduced by half and a deficit of 4.2 percent was turned into a surplus in the current budget in Germany. We got no further than a quarter of the exercise that was waiting for us, a quarter of the exercise of 4.1 pro. That's as far as we got. Let us see where we stand today. It has been referred to a number of times, including by Mr Klaps. Both friend and the intellectually honest enemy must acknowledge that we are much better off today. Public attachment has been reduced from 55 pro to 51.8 pro. That's a very strong drop. In today's money, this is some EUR 13 billion a year that the government spends less than if the policy had not changed. At the same time, we have chosen to reduce the tax burden: from 52 pro to 50.7 pro. In terms of money, that is about EUR 5 billion that we take less out of people's pockets every year. That's a big deal. However, I have to admit that 5 billion is still 2 billion less than the 7 billion of the previous government's tax avalanche. So there is still 2 billion to go to turn it back completely. I believe, however, that we can be proud that Belgium is also leading today in a number of very positive lists. I am thinking, for example, of the list published by the OECD, the list of countries where the tax burden has fallen the most. In recent years, no one had thought that Belgium would ever be in it. Well, the time has come during this legislature; Belgium is one of the leading countries in which the tax burden has fallen most. A falling public debt, falling spending and a lower tax burden mean that our nominal balance of the joint government has improved from 3.1 per cent to 1.1 per cent. That's an improvement of 2%. That's actually twice as much as under the previous coalition. Two thirds of the ride is done, two thirds of the exercise is made or will be made at the end of next year. If we look at our level alone, the federal government alone, our nominal deficit is only 0.5%. That's almost a balance. In conclusion, therefore, I believe that we can say that this government has actually reduced expenditure. It was not savings that lead to more expenditure but savings that effectively lead to less expenditure. We have done so by using two thirds of the savings to close the budget well and to effectively return a third to the people and to take less money out of their pockets. Less government, less taxes, a route on which the N-VA, as a participant in this coalition, is particularly proud. That's the power of change for us. Where this government is more proud than it is on its budgetary path, structural reforms in the area of pensions and justice are but most of all in this area of competitiveness. It has already been mentioned in the various speeches that have just been made, by Mr Van Rompuy, among others. He sketched the situation. For an open economy, for a small country like Belgium, just competitiveness is extremely important to increase exports and import prosperity. That is why the need to restore competitiveness at the beginning of this legislature existed more than ever before and that we have taken this element very seriously. The coalition agreement already had a very strong chapter on competitiveness, but this has gradually been strengthened in this legislature. The second phase of the tax shift has just been discussed. The second phase of the tax shift, on top of the first phase agreed in the coalition agreement, results in a total shift of €8 billion. Reducing the burden on labour is also such a sentence that has been expressed by each party over the past decades, but our coalition is doing it. Employers can therefore create jobs and employees are left with more. Those who move from a benefit system to a job, who come out of their bed in the morning, take their children to a crèche and then go to work at the lowest wages, will earn more than 150 euros per month. That, ladies and gentlemen, is a social policy like never before. The second part, about competitiveness. This was not in the coalition agreement, but this coalition should be proud of the reform of corporate taxation. In terms of impact on our economy, I believe that the most important measure will be the reform of corporate taxation. Although this was not in the coalition agreement, I am particularly proud that we have gradually come to implement this reform effectively. It is not news if I tell you that we were the most unattractive player in Europe with the 33.99 percent tax rate in corporation tax. Even worldwide, we were among the highest rates. This also applies to the effective rate. The previous governments, with socialists and greens among others, created numerous deductions, some of them talking about loopholes to ease the high tax rate a little, but also the effective rates are among the absolute top of the world. Such things are absolutely deadly for those who want to attract investment, with a view to growth and exports. Do I have to repeat that this situation was not only detrimental to attracting foreign investment, even though large multinationals could still benefit from some of these deductions, but also, above all, harm our own SMEs? After all, our SMEs do not have an army of lawyers and lawyers to thoroughly exploit all the roads, so that the high rate of 33,99 percent, which was antisocial and inhibiting, was particularly damaging to them. So we can only be very satisfied that the nominal rate will be reduced in steps: 25% for large companies, 20% for the first EUR 100 000 for SMEs. That's a big improvement. I know, we have also discussed this for a long time in committee, a lot of criticism has already been voiced by the opposition, which cites the Court of Auditors' report, which says that the reform may not be budget-neutral. It's possible. In such cases, moreover, the Court of Auditors and the European Commission themselves indicate that there may be a number of more positive assessments and a number of more negative ones. This government has played on securely by building a sufficiently large safety margin. The National Bank has also stressed that the government has carefully estimated the main financing measure, the containment of the notional interest deduction. I therefore believe that we are quite safe with regard to funding. Of course, it must also be said: what are the costs of doing nothing? In our neighbouring countries, as well as a little further, effective corporate tax has been substantially reduced in recent years and will be further reduced. The cost of doing nothing, colleagues, would be a huge handicap to our competitiveness. The cost of doing nothing would be priceless. We would not be able to finance them in any way. In the light of developments in neighbouring countries, I would therefore like to ask them to follow closely. If the rates are reduced in this way, we can only follow them. As the Court of Auditors and the European Commission say, this reform may also have a positive impact on tax revenues. To be honest, I expect that. More than enough has already been said that no payback effect has been taken into account in the government's estimates. Of course, we expect them to be here and there. It is therefore our explicit demand that such additional revenue from payback effects will not be used to spend more money but that they will be used to further reduce rates. We need that. The alternative is to increase expenditure, which is not an option at all in this country, which has a public debt of more than 50%. I would also like to come back to the issue of savings tax, another measure which was not sufficiently highlighted, but of which we should certainly not underestimate the effects. With the extension of the tax exemption from the withholding tax on dividends to 800 euros, we are implementing in the facts a legislative proposal from the N-VA group from the previous legislature. It is a particularly social measure, because today it really democratizes the instruments and means that yield more than the ridiculously low interest rate on a savings book. They are democratized for ordinary people and specifically for the small investor. I see you laughing, Mr Gilkinet, but a tax exemption of EUR 800 is not for the big investor, for the Warren Buffets or Marc Couckes of this world. I respect Marc Coucke very much, by the way, but the EUR 800 exemption in dividends does not concern the millionaire, but the ordinary little man. Anyone who goes up there will immediately pay 30% withholding tax on every euro.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-plenair-ip202x.u68	Mr President, I am listening to my colleague Mr Dedecker with great interest. I hear him say things that I find enormous! He is pleased that parents who have children in the nursery will have a little more money to pay for it. I hope that with all the work flexibilisation measures, they will arrive on time, before the closure of the nursery, to recover their children, because you do not make a particularly well-contracted company towards them with all the measures you take and plan. I hear him say here, for example: "Extraordinary! We will democratize the possibility for citizens to invest in actions." But what is the percentage of our citizens who have enough money and security of existence in front of them only to be able to simply consider this choice? Maybe you have to live on another planet! Indeed, some will win over this tax exemption, but you are just going to strengthen the inequality in the distribution of income among our fellow citizens. The cohesion of a society and its economic efficiency are ensured by ensuring a proper distribution of income and wealth. What you're doing is running forward. You will make the lives of those who already have the means more comfortable and increase the proportion of those who will not be able to easily end their month and simply meet their most basic needs. I think you live on a planet other than ours!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-plenair-ip202x.u69	Mr Gilkinet, let me answer your question with a call. According to the reports of the Planning Bureau and the National Bank, the savings ratio has increased again under the current coalition. People have a little more left to put on their savings books. Let me make a call. Do not put everything on the savings book, but invest a piece in other products and in our real economy. That is a call for popular capitalism, for strengthening and anchoring our companies. That is what we need. We have also established this in the past. Our thriving biotech cluster, which is very strongly anchored in Ghent, has only been able to emerge thanks to the participation of many small investors and savers. The small investors and savers were willing to take a risk with a fraction of their savings and they invested in those young companies. I think that we absolutely must encourage this. No roses without thorns, though. I do not want to hide the fact that savings tax also includes a security tax and a withholding tax of 30%. In terms of taxes on capital and capital gains, this puts us in a top position. No coalition, even with socialists, gained more income from taxes on wealth and capital gains. Am I proud of that? No, I am absolutely not proud of that, but it is no secret that the coalition is not based on passion and passion. The coalition is one of the parties that are linked by a common goal, namely to get the country back on track socio-economically, to turn its hands on the team again and to create prosperity again. If these measures are necessary to reduce our taxes on labour, restore our competitiveness and reform corporate taxation, then we will certainly add them. The strengthening of our competitiveness is a fact and it is a result on which we as a coalition can be particularly proud. Our group will therefore fully support the budget.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-plenair-ip202x.u70	Mr President, Madam and Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, the budget is the numerical expression of our government's policy since the beginning of the legislature. It is a budget that is chosen, specific and assumed. This final phase of the discussions on the 2018 budget is the continuation of constructive discussions in each of the committees. On behalf of the MR Group, I would like to commend the quality of the exchanges we have had between all the political parties – including the PTB. We do not agree on everything, but at least we confront our views freely. For more than three years, the government has been reforming our country and achieving noticeable results. The 2018 budget is considered and sets clear and ambitious targets. It attests to determined choices to create more jobs, increase the purchasing power of workers, encourage entrepreneurship and strengthen the competitiveness of our country. It also demonstrates the desire to work towards greater fiscal and social justice. Our Government is pursuing a forward-looking economic policy through major structural reforms, coupled with responsible fiscal consolidation. We are preparing the challenges ahead. As the National Bank pointed out in committee yesterday, the reforms must allow for a reduction in our indebtedness in order to meet the challenge of an ageing population and, consequently, to ensure the payment of pensions. For our group, it is necessary to continue this path of ambitious reforms and thus to guarantee our model of social protection. During the meetings, and this was mentioned earlier, we received the opinions of two independent institutions: the Court of Auditors and the European Commission. The opinion of the Court of Auditors is paramount in parliamentary work. Every year, it gives an objective opinion that enlightens us on the draft budget and allows us to participate in constructive discussions. The Court has validated some of the government's calculations and assumptions and, as each year, has expressed reservations about the performance of certain revenues. It's not a surprise. These remarks are recurrent and relate to both overestimation and underestimation of revenues. Not that the figures would be wrong, but it is simply not able to validate them technically. The Court is therefore cautious and the difficulty of accurately estimating the yield of new taxes, the modalities of which are sometimes still to be defined, is not an easy exercise. However, the care given by the government and the Minister of Budget to stop the figures is clear, since the most recent figures confirm that, for 2017 for example, revenues will be higher than the original estimates. Therefore, caution is on both sides. This prudence is also at work in the estimation of expenditure, since the Court has shown very few inadequacies in appropriations. This represents a significant improvement, which is confirmed year by year. Moreover, in order to remove the doubts, our Budget Minister has responded to the opinion of the Court of Auditors in a completely exhaustive and precise manner in the Committee on Finance, which once again attests to his mastery and confirms the rigour and seriousness of his follow-up. Finally, the Court of Auditors links the draft budget to our European obligations, which brings me to the Commission's opinion. Firstly, despite warning Belgium of a risk of non-compliance with the Stability and Growth Pact, the Commission confirmed that the 2018 project puts Belgium on good track. Furthermore, it must be stressed that the economic situation in our country has changed more favourably than the Commission estimated last year. Thus, for 2017, the Commission has repeatedly revised its growth forecasts from 1.3% to 1.7% in its latest estimates. These successive upward reviews, confirmed by the Office of the Plan, are reassuring about the approach taken by the government, which has aimed just by anticipating an improvement in cumulative growth of 0.2% over the period 2017-2018. The Commission has stressed, however, that our country is not fulfilling all its European obligations. We knew it. In order not to jeopardise economic recovery, nothing is decreed with a finger slap, everything is measured and must be weighted intelligently. That's what's done. The government set the amount of effort to achieve at 0.6% of GDP in 2018 to reduce the structural deficit by 0.3% in 2018 and 2019, which represents an effort of 2.6 billion euros, a considerable effort! If, by the Commission, it is considered insufficient, it should be mentioned that since 2014, Belgium has experienced one of the greatest improvements in the structural balance of the euro area. The Commission has considered that the growth of our primary expenditure is excessive. Of course, it is very high and expenditure should be better managed, but we are convinced that acting too hard would be counterproductive. Moreover, as I said in committee, it believes that the growth of primary expenditure can keep pace with the increase in revenue, but limits our revenue forecasts arbitrarily. With regard to public debt, the Commission has acknowledged that the situation is improving, but it is clear that we must continue to work to reduce our debt. With regard to the nominal deficit, in 2014 it reached 3.1% of GDP. Today, the Strategy and Support FPS estimates that it will be 1.2 per cent in 2017. In three years, we will have reduced the nominal deficit by almost two thirds. We can conclude from this Commission opinion that Belgium could have done more, but it was only possible at the cost of new savings or taxes. The government has given priority to guaranteeing public service and limiting taxation, an approach that we fully support. We are in favour of budgetary rigour – it is regrettable that Mr Bogaert has just come out – but in no way austerity. The measures taken must support purchasing power, employment and investment. The results I have just mentioned are the result of a significant number of measures that are implementing our government's action plan. To begin with, in 2018, we will be taking important new steps on the tax front. It is important to note that 2016 was a record year in the fight against tax fraud. Last year, the Special Inspectorate of Taxes recovered €308 million from fraud. It's a historical figure. In 2016, the Special Inspectorate of Taxes raised 71 million euros more than the previous year. And these are a few tens of millions more than in 2013 and 2014. These results are the result of investments in computer applications and datamining. In the same vein, the government has strengthened the Cayman tax and the exchange transaction tax to increase its efficiency. The government has also proposed to introduce an annual tax of 0.15 per cent on securities accounts with an average value of taxable financial instruments equal to or greater than €500,000. All the tax measures undertaken under this legislature contribute to increasing our revenues and, gradually, to a fairer tax policy for our citizens.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-plenair-ip202x.u71	Mr Piedboeuf, you mention the tax on securities accounts as one of the tax justice measures. However, one of the main criticisms expressed by almost everyone about this tax is that it is discriminatory because some elements of heritage are covered and others are not. In particular, the shares that are in accounts are covered, as the name indicates, but the nominal shares are not. However, we know that the biggest fortunes in this country do not have securities accounts but have nominal shares. I will not mention names of great fortunes, they are on the website of journalist Ludwig Verduyn, derijkstebelgen.be. Finally, the richest will escape the tax on securities accounts. Does it really express tax justice?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-plenair-ip202x.u72	Mr. Van Hees, when we don't do anything, you're blundering! When you do something, you're blushing too! We've chosen a niche and we'll start with this one. As far as nominative actions are concerned, a whole series of indicators allow us to think that they are mainly devoted to long-term investment in enterprises. It's a choice we made.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-plenair-ip202x.u73	So you recognize that the greatest fortunes escape this tax. Thank you for that clarification.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-plenair-ip202x.u74	I said we made a choice. I know you're an admirer of a whole series of great fortunes since you keep talking about it. In my opinion, you forget some of those close to you. That's all right. We made a choice. [[(...): (...)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-plenair-ip202x.u75	I refer you to the communist countries that invest in the Mediterranean.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-plenair-ip202x.u76	Mr President, Mr Piedboeuf says that I am close to some great fortunes. I want him to tell me who it is. The charge is probably unfounded. Charges such as these are not made without arguments.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-plenair-ip202x.u77	Mr. President, I don't put the names of the people in trouble. For the tax shift, in 2018 and 2019, we will continue to implement it with the execution of phases 2 and 3. In 2018, €2.1 billion will be invested and, the following year, €1.9 billion to increase business competitiveness and purchasing power. Through this dual support, we will continue to provide more social justice and reward work more and more. In the same spirit, it was necessary to reduce the pressure on work in order to further stimulate employment. As a result, social contributions will be reduced in 2018, from 33 per cent to 25 per cent. Today, we are achieving results. Business growth continues to grow. More than 90,000 companies were established in 2015, more than 100,000 in 2016 and the number of independents is now more than one million. In order to promote our competitiveness, we have also put corporate tax reform on the agenda. After the tax shift, we are implementing a second major tax reform. Yesterday, the Governor of the National Bank confirmed the absolute need for this reform. The corporate tax rate will fall from 33 to 25 per cent by 2020. In Belgium, a small open economy - as was recalled yesterday - this historic reform is a necessary action, especially since, in view of international trends in corporate tax, it is absolutely necessary to follow the trend. Currently, the Belgian corporate tax rate is one of the highest in the European Union and the OECD. It was imperative to send a strong signal! Special attention is given to our SMEs as from 2018 they will benefit from a reduced rate of 20%. As part of this reform, consolidation will also be implemented. The cost of the status quo would be considerable! Without intervention, we risk a loss of competitiveness, loss of employment and investment. State revenues would be put under pressure, directly through corporate tax, but also indirectly through other sources of income. In the context of this budgetary work, which is almost entirely confirmed by the National Bank, it must be stressed that the return effects, as my colleague Mr Peter Dedecker said, have not been taken into account in the budget, even though we know that they will be largely positive for our economy. We do not stop there in tax matters and can mention many other measures: increase of the deduction for investment from 8% to 20%, beneficiary premium for workers, activation of savings, introduction of a ceiling level for pension savings, extension of flexi-jobs, harmonisation and extension of flat-rate professional costs or reduction of costs in the construction sector. All these measures are a real support for our economy. However, the 2018 budget does not ignore the major security challenges. Security remains one of our government's top priorities. In the area of policing, we welcome the continuity of policy, as well as the processes of adaptation and innovation at work. Important steps will continue to be taken to enhance the effectiveness of our integrated police force. Following the recent riots in Brussels, the government strongly condemned the unacceptable violence against the police. We would like to remind them of our support and stress the willingness expressed in his note by the Minister of the Interior to continue his efforts to combat these intolerable acts. In order to continue the fight against terrorism, new measures were added at last May's Council of Ministers on Security. Progress is continuing and we will continue along this path in 2018, with the aim of strengthening our tools, improving what can or should be, bearing in mind the balance between freedom and security. Since the establishment of this government, the asylum and migration policy has been guided by clear but firm human policy rules. A welcoming country that meets its international obligations, but where abuses are no longer tolerated. We must be welcoming with the weak, uncompromising with those who abuse our hospitality or who do not share our values. This is the case with the preachers of hatred. The policy note corresponds to this philosophy. First of all, there is a human component in the reception of refugees suffering from war – thousands of people are welcomed every year – with unwavering cooperation with the European Union and with UNHCR for the resettlement project. There is also a firm element that is reflected in the desire to repatriate illegal offenders. This policy will continue in 2018: knowledge of the values for first-time arrivals, emphasis on integration efforts, strengthening return, better management of the asylum procedure and accelerated procedures according to the categories of asylum seekers. In addition, specific reception will be provided for vulnerable or special needs groups of asylum-seekers. We will also pursue our proactive policy in favour of European asylum harmonisation and against illegal immigration. Being human means applying clear, legible rules and quick procedures. This year, special attention will be paid to student migration and economic migration with the transposition of all employment-related directives. It has now been ten years since the crisis hit our economy, our businesses and our citizens at all levels. The State has had to take its responsibilities to ensure the survival of companies but above all to ensure the sustainability of our social security model, which guarantees the principle of solidarity between generations. Efforts are still needed to combat poverty. We are aware of that. However, progress can be highlighted. The latest SILC study at European level demonstrates this. The risk of falling into poverty has been decreasing since 2014. Two main factors explain this figure: the significant increase in benefits and the creation of jobs. Overall, almost 1 400 000 people have seen their benefits increase (pensions, unemployment benefits, social integration income or GRAPA). These increases, which have taken place over the past three years, undoubtedly give the beneficiaries greater purchasing power. As far as the situation of single-parent families is concerned, exceptional measures should be taken because for these families, often women with children, the risk of poverty is far too high. Among seniors, the risk of poverty has decreased, but various efforts have been made by the government, both within the framework of the welfare envelope and within the framework of the additional budgetary resources released in order to increase the minimum pension for a full career and thereby improve the purchasing power of our pensioners. It should also be recalled that the minimum pension for isolated persons has, as promised, exceeded the poverty line, which is the least of all. I take this opportunity to pay tribute to the work of our Minister of Pensions. In addition to the draft law on the introduction of a mixed pension, it continues to move forward by always advocating social consultation. In the coming months, therefore, we should see the long-awaited projects on point pensions, partial pensions, taking account of penitibility, but also – and this is linked – the abolition of preferential pensions or the abolition of special schemes. Fairness must not only be fiscal, but must also exist in this area. The ultimate goal is to create employment to bring as many people back into the labour market as possible, as employment remains above all the best bulwark against poverty and social exclusion. In terms of health care, the 2018 budget is in a more favourable context than last year. It was approved very broadly at the beginning of October by the General Council of INAMI. It is an agreement that comes after a long work by the health insurance stakeholders, who presented a budget proposal to the Insurance Committee with a very positive vote. The government followed the Insurance Committee, which established a realistic budget framework where everyone contributes equitably to the effort to be made. Health care expenditure under and outside the INAMI budget target increased by €813.7 million in 2018 compared to 2017. The MR Group welcomes this. In the important area of justice, the budget increases by 3 per cent despite linear savings. EUR 1 956 000 000 are available in 2018. This is more than in 2014 when the real budget was EUR 1 759 000 000. A structural budgetary solution has been found for the financing of medical care for internees. They will now be financed in the same way as those intended for any person subject to the general health insurance scheme. All expenses reimbursable in regular health care will now also be reimbursable for interns and will be covered by INAMI. The Justice FPS will now only pay the moderator ticket for internees. This is a structural solution to a recurring financing problem. We can also welcome the fact that the National Defence budget remains stable until the end of the legislature. This reflects the government's willingness to comply with the 2016-2030 strategic vision and to enforce the military programming law. As the Prime Minister recalled last Thursday, Belgium wants to invest more in European Defence within NATO. This is an essential prerequisite if we are to strengthen our influence on international issues. The European choices we make in this regard are consistent with our ambition to give Europe more weight and genuine mediation power on the international stage.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-plenair-ip202x.u78	Mr Piedboeuf, what is the actual budget programming in terms of defence?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-plenair-ip202x.u79	Mr Laaouej, you will know earlier, since we will have the thematic debates.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-plenair-ip202x.u80	Yes, but that's not right, because you're serving us a kind of catechism.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-plenair-ip202x.u81	You'll know what we think about the defence budget.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-plenair-ip202x.u82	There's absolutely nothing, Mr. Piedboeuf. If you hadn't talked about it, I wouldn't have called you. Moreover, I did not even address this issue in the rostrum. There's absolutely nothing – and you brag about it, despite everything! There are limits. It's not serious!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-plenair-ip202x.u83	We have an annual budget line until 2030.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-plenair-ip202x.u84	There's nothing!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-plenair-ip202x.u85	Mr President, since we discussed this at a meeting of the Committee on Finance and the Budget, I would like to remind you that I have explained the topics mentioned on a line-by-line basis. As far as Defence is concerned, when you invest in it, and given the ESA rules, the liquidation impacts will be visible from the moment of delivery. I take a concrete example. In 2019, on our fiscal trajectory, they will amount to almost 500 million euros due to the delivery of the A400M, which was decided 18 years ago. So you're trying a very bad trial by criticizing the government for its strategic vision of defence missions and our international commitments, on the grounds that it would not have provided for liquidation credits. By definition, however, it is impossible.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-plenair-ip202x.u86	In foreign policy, our trade balance has a positive balance of almost EUR 12 billion on a biannual basis. This positive balance has even improved over the past two years. This is a crucial point in our economic policy and, for job creation, one of the pillars of our government's policy. In order to maintain and improve this positive balance, we need to pay even more attention to the international trade negotiations that are taking place with Canada, Japan, Australia, New Zealand and soon with Britain following Brexit. We have interests to promote, but also sectors to protect. We must show greater interest in these negotiations and their results so that our SME fabric can benefit directly or indirectly. Mr.President, Minister, Minister, the 2018 Budget, as we understand it, is an ambitious budget that reflects the major reforms being undertaken by our government. We are convinced that we must be realistic, while acting with determination. The 2018 budget is a fair balance. Fiscal consolidation must be done in a thoughtful manner. The revival of our economy is necessary as is the maintenance of our social security. Working together on these two plans will ensure sustainable structural efficiency. Our group strongly supports all the measures necessary for employment, the strengthening of the purchasing power of workers, the consolidation of growth, the encouragement of the spirit of enterprise and the competitiveness of our economy, the sustainability of our social model, the establishment of tax and social equity. We want to continue to stimulate job creation, to better guarantee solidarity, to strengthen the freedoms of everyone. It is therefore with enthusiasm and conviction that the MR Group will support this draft budget 2018.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-plenair-ip202x.u87	Meanwhile, a little service announcement. I intend to continue working until about 1 p.m. Then we suspend for an hour so that we can eat properly. We will then resume the meeting around 2 p.m., 2.15 p.m.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-plenair-ip202x.u88	Madam Minister, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Laaouej, I loved my maiden speech on the 1986 budget in this gallery. Wilfried Martens was then Prime Minister, Jean Gol Deputy Prime Minister and Guy Verhofstadt Minister for the Budget. Kristof Calvo was not yet born and the N-VA was not yet born. The only person who was there at the time was Patrick Dewael. Mrs. Kitir's seat was Louis Tobback. Alain van der Biest sat on Mr Laaouej's chair and her father, Gaston Onkelinx, sat on Laurette Onkelinx's chair. So I'm talking about the year 1986, when I made my maiden speech here. I'm going back in history to better understand what's happening today. The general government deficit amounted to 11% of GDP in 1986. The Saint Anna Plan reduced this deficit to 7% in 1987 at two years. Then came the return of the coeur and the tax reform of Minister Maystadt with the decumulation and the split, which raised the deficit again to 10 percent It is the Dehaene Government that has reduced this deficit in eight years to a deficit of 0.5 percent in 1999 and a primary surplus of 6.5 percent of GDP. In the following years, the purple years, we had the active welfare state of Frank Vandenbroucke and the tax cuts of Verhofstadt and Reynders. The primary surplus, which was 6.5 percent, was then resurrected. There was nothing left in the cashier to put into the Silver Fund. As a result, we entered the banking crisis without any reserve, increasing the overall government deficit in Belgium again to 7%. It is the merit of the Leterme and -Di Rupo governments that the deficit was halved and reduced to 3.2 percent in 2014.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-plenair-ip202x.u89	Mr Van Rompuy, you are diving into history. For me, the table of Belgian public debt is the same. In 1989, the socialists returned to the government, accounting for about 120 percent of GDP. In 2007 it had fallen to 80 percent of GDP and this among the socialists. In other words, at the time when the financial crisis unfortunately took place, we, as socialists, had little to do with it, and that was the merit of the greed of big business, our figures were under control, just in order to finance the ageing costs in the future. So don't tell us that it was all bad and bad: what had to happen then happened. Today we are far removed from that 80% when we left the government. The increase in the bill, public expenditure, has a lot to do with the financial crisis. We all agreed that people's savings had to be saved, and you will not hear me criticise them. But don't give me the message that everything was bad back then. At that time we were working on a budget with a reduction in public debt which we can only dream of today.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-plenair-ip202x.u90	Mr Vanvelthoven, I am not criticizing political parties, because we were always there. I have just outlined history and said that once public debt has risen again in 2007, it will indeed have to do with the banking crisis, bringing the deficit back to 7% to 8% due to external circumstances. I just wanted to say that it is the merit of the Leterme Government and also of the Di Rupo Government that the deficit has been halved from 7% to 8% to 3.2 percent in 2014. It is also the credit of the Michael administration that this deficit has been halved again. I'm positive. The deficits have been halved today from 3.2 percent to 1.4 percent, which is in line with what has happened in recent years. 2016 was a budget lost year, but in 2017 we note a significant decrease in the deficit by more than 1% nominal and 0.8 percent structural and for the first time in years we have a primary surplus of almost 1%. For 2018, I will get back to that straightaway, a slight reduction of the deficit by 0.3 percent is predicted, but according to the explanatory statement, the government deficit will again rise to almost 1.5 percent in 2019 due to an underfunded tax shift and the increase in primary expenditure. When I was standing here, the government deficit was 11% of GDP. We even had 14% once. In comparison, 1.5 percent is ten times less, but it still means a debt increase of 5 to 6 billion. I'm taking two lessons from that. Firstly, tax reductions such as those at the end of the 1980s and the early 1990s must be fiscally neutral and must be financed either by internal shifts in taxation or by additional savings. One cannot rely solely on payback effects. Secondly, budgetary balances and also primary surpluses are and will continue to be necessary if we are to reduce our towering public debt and protect ourselves from the budgetary cost of new increases in interest rates and the cost of ageing. I therefore continue to argue for a balanced budget.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-plenair-ip202x.u91	Mr President, Mr Van Rompuy, what I understand of your speech is that you consider that we must return to balance as soon as possible. You point out, regretting him, that the tax shift was not funded. Presumably, you confirm the figures of the National Bank, which considers that the tax shift is not financed to the tune of €4.7 billion. So, in your opinion, what does the government have to do to solve precisely this problem of non-financing the tax shift? Do you agree with the government on the return effects? Obviously, these are not there after more than three years? So what solutions do you recommend? What advice do you give to address the de-financing of the tax shift, which, as you say, itself negatively impacts the evolution of the nominal balance, but also of the structural balance? What are you proposing specifically to the government?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-plenair-ip202x.u92	Mr President, I will certainly come back to that in the course of my speech. Mrs Kitir, of course I am in favour of a balanced budget, but at the same time I note that very few politicians, including the opposition, are still in favour of a balanced budget. The same applies in business circles and trade unions. Even professors I know well, such as Mr De Grauwe and Mr Moesen, partly abandon budgetary discipline. Men wil niet meer besparen otherwise we'll break the growth. D e growth would be slowed down. However, as I said earlier, economic growth is not determined by the degree of government consumption, but by exports, by investments and by private consumption. Again, not by government consumption. It is wrong to say that savings of 0.5% of GDP in the public sector would destroy our economy. On the contrary, the Netherlands proves that, despite heavy savings, economic growth is higher than here. The ambition of budgetary balance must therefore not be abandoned. I'll come back to it later. Today's budget deficits are tomorrow's tax increases and savings. That must not be watered down.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-plenair-ip202x.u93	Mr Van Rompuy, Mr Calvo has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-plenair-ip202x.u94	Mr Van Rompuy, you know that my group and I are anything but fetishists of a budget balance. I am very transparent about that. The question is whether, if a deficit is made, it is made to invest and prepare society and the economy for the future or whether the Minister of Finance does not have his homework in order and lets the big assets and the fraudsters escape the dance? That is the debate and the disagreement between us and the government. In the meantime, I also believe that we should pierce the narrative of our Prime Minister and of your majority. The government states that it is abandoning the budgetary balance, so as not to stop growth. But that's bullshit and monkey. After all, there is no massive investment and the economy is not being stimulated, as should be expected. There is one Secretary of State who is so honest today to confess why the government is releasing the budget balance, especially Theo Francken today in Knack. Theo Francken, in Knack today, is also right, in my opinion, that the government is abandoning the balance because it does not win elections. That's the headline in Knack today.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-plenair-ip202x.u95	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-plenair-ip202x.u96	No, for me, of course, that has nothing to do with winning elections, with strategy. Absolutely not. [[Hilarity]] I am glad that you are asking that question so that I can also answer it clearly, Mr Verherstraeten. I believe that Mr Francken is giving an honest answer. If this government solves the budgetary balance, it has nothing to do with investing or encouraging growth, because that is not what we are doing. It has to do with the fact that people have just made the determination, electoral, cold and cold calculus, but it doesn't matter before the elections. Francken honestly says that, with Muslims on the hood, one can win the elections, but not with a budget balance. That's the strategy. That is why the N-VA has also abandoned the balance of the budget.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-plenair-ip202x.u97	Mr President, I leave Mr Calvo's populism to himself. However, I note two major themes in the comments I have to make here. I would also like to hear Mr Van Rompuy's opinion on this. Firstly, if the opposition constantly says that the tax shift has not been financed, this means that the tax burden has fallen. Who did it fall for? For those with the lowest incomes because it's those who take advantage of the tax shift. The people with the lowest income get the most from the tax shift. I hear the opposition is against that. I would like to ask Mr Van Rompuy if he is of the same opinion as the opposition. Secondly, Mr Calvo says that there is no increase in investment at all, that there is no investment in this country by the policy of this government. Well, there's a message from Febelfin on the VRT's website right now. The Belgian companies borrowed EUR 145.5 million in September. That's a record amount. Mr Calvo, with this amount of investment, jobs are being created and our economy is being helped. I believe that this shows that we are on the right track.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-plenair-ip202x.u98	Mr President, the only thing I have heard about the budget in the past period of opposition, including the green opposition, is the criticism that the budgetary path is not moving faster towards balance and that the budget is not in order. However, it does not provide an alternative. The opposition also takes a somewhat dubious and double-sided attitude. On the one hand, it complains that we are not working on the balance of the budget and that the debt is not being reduced sufficiently. On the other hand, it says that there is not enough investment, that there is not enough investment in growth. It therefore criticises both policy aspects. How do you identify both? That's impossible, isn't it? Surely we cannot commit ourselves to a fast path towards a balanced budget, while at the same time making even more effort to growth and investment, what are spending? Explain how you intend to do that.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-plenair-ip202x.u99	Mr Van Rompuy, you said that you felt a little lonely when you pleaded for budgetary balance. Some academic circles don't necessarily relay you. The unions are not very supportive of this. You will recall that, in committee, I fully supported your statement because indeed, in budgetary matters as in other matters, I find that balance is a central concept. The difficulty before us is that the call for balance is not heard either within the government. On several occasions, in committee, we asked the government when it would restore balance in its multi-year trajectory. I would therefore like to invite you to ask this question as well. It seems to me important that we can have a trajectory on the part of the government and the majority to say that at least at such a time, Mr. Van Rompuy will be heard, the balance will be restored. Will it be in 2019? When? To that question, we have received no answer, and I would like to take this opportunity to reiterate this request. What is the government's multi-year trajectory? When does he intend to restore this budgetary balance, of which you stress the importance?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-plenair-ip202x.u100	I would like to make the analysis of the 2017 budget. It greatly reduced the deficit, nominally, by almost 1%, partly because of the unexpectedly favourable evolution of revenue due to higher employment, i.e. 100 000 jobs over two years, and higher corporate profits. Revenue rose by 6.1 per cent overall, mainly due to improved revenue from the farm levy, advance payments by businesses and withholding tax. So there was an overall increase in revenue, but the criticism, which I have always expressed, is that the proceeds of a number of capital taxes, such as the caiman tax, the taxes on real estate banks and tax regularisation, were disappointing. That is also the criticism of the Court of Auditors and the European Commission. The government replied with a number of arguments. In any case, the net revenue account was positive. As far as expenditure is concerned, primary expenditure will fall from 52% of gross domestic product in 2014-2018 to 49.5% in 2018. That's about 10 billion. The expenditure increase was 0.3 percent annually in the period 2014-2018. The government has therefore pursued a policy which has created more revenue for employment and the better economy. The weak point is that in the tax shift the compensation on the side of capital taxes did not pay what they should have paid. The impact tax is also an element of this, but it will always be a mix of taxes and expenses. In contrast to the criticism on the socialist side and on the trade union side that the reduction in expenditure has meant social degradation, I would suggest the increase in prosperity envelope, the increase in minimum pensions, the rise of 3% in the low wages of EUR 1 500, thanks to the new tax shift which was confirmed today in the personal taxation system, and the respect of the legal growth standard in health insurance. Minister De Block is here to testify. Although I am not a member of the committee responsible, I note that despite the expenditure increases in recent years, health insurance with a standard of 1.5% is not being phased out. It's about a reduced rise rate. The budget for pensions is 40 billion and that for health insurance is 30 billion. I would remind those who analysed social security in a certain way that the Court of Auditors concluded in its report on social security that the budget balance in social security is positive, with EUR 208 million. In addition, budgeted social security expenditure will increase by 2 billion in 2017. They're approaching 100 billion now. People are shouting about social degradation, while social spending increased in 2017. Mr Laaouej has said on several occasions that the reduction of social security contributions will cause a gap in the social security budget. Well, I have to say that the budget balance for 2017 is positive. So there is no question of dismantling our social security. (Protests from Mrs Kitir) Mrs Kitir, you should rather tell the citizens that 200 000 jobs have been added and that in the province of Limburg, after the difficult period after the closure of Ford Genk, there is a sharp increase in employment, so much so that the highest growth in employment in Flanders is measured and unemployment rates have fallen sharply. Moreover, this is not only the merit of the government or of one party, it is also the merit of the people in Limburg. Let us, Flemings, be proud that things are still going well in a number of areas, including employment. I'm really glad to be able to tell young people that they have a future and that there are jobs. This is not just about the current government. I'm not in the game "who's responsible for what." We all have credit for it. This is thanks to the investment of entrepreneurs, thanks to our training, thanks to our education, thanks to our enormous efforts to attract foreign investment and to create jobs. These are positive things and negative stories are not mentioned in Limburg either. The period after the closure of Ford Genk has been experienced. But Limburg has risen from its ashes. So let us also say positive things. As far as purchasing power is concerned, real disposable income has increased by 2%. Purchasing power is increasing, thanks to the work bonus and the revised tax scales. The labour market is becoming more flexible, and it must also be more flexible. In fact, the opposition should be very happy about these good developments. But I've also been in opposition. I know that we cannot be happy, even if we are seeing progress.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-plenair-ip202x.u101	Mr Van Rompuy, we will welcome any additional job, there is no discussion about it; the more, the better. The fact that Limburg is doing well has many factors to do, including the resilience of Limburg. As a province, we are very proud of the fact that we have recovered from the province, from Flanders, from the federal level and from Europe. You say you are happy to tell young people that they now have a future. From the beginning of your speech, I noted that today's budget deficits are the tax increases and savings of tomorrow. That's the future. Do you also tell the young people that, despite the government's promise to the young generation, the government is failing to honour its commitment to budget deficits? Although you say you're happy for their future, it hypothesizes their future.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-plenair-ip202x.u102	That is the very essence of my speech. Budget deficits have been reduced, they are halved now, end of 2017. Efforts will also have to be made in the following years. Reform policy must not be slowed down, as the European Commission also says. As a Member of Parliament, one may be critical of the government and of what is happening, nor can one deny that an important road has been taken. Mr Dispa, I am not putting a number on that. Had it been said last year that the budget deficit would be reduced by 1%, I would not have believed that either. We all thought that revenue would be lower, but economic growth meant that it would be higher. However, it must remain the ambition to produce budgets that will not continue to increase debt. Don't forget, we're still carrying a debt of 460 billion. The debt reduction is 2% this year, which is a very good result. In 2018 and 2019 the weather will be a bit less. I call for the budgetary targets to be counted in the near future, but there are dates which depend very much on economic development. Fortunately, it's good, which is why I'm optimistic.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-plenair-ip202x.u103	Mr Van Rompuy, I share your desire for a budget in balance and if it is possible even to have a surplus budget to eliminate historical debts. In my opinion, the aim is very common sense. Mr Vanvelthoven, a euro that you do not own today, but which is being spent today, will have to be repaid afterwards. That drama is happening with a government debt above 100 percent that has been created here. However, it could be solved very easily. Let me give you an example. The pension reform we have carried out is a real pension reform, even if it is 20 or even 40 years late. Our pension reform is quite different from the Silver Fund, which was an empty box. We could say, for example, that all the measures will apply to everyone from today on. The problem would then be solved immediately, because these measures would result in a surplus rather than deficits. However, we choose the gradual path, a path without social degradation. Nevertheless, I note that you are constantly inciting people to argue against it and to uphold every possible right acquired. This is precisely the reason why young people are being burdened with problems.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-plenair-ip202x.u104	Mr Van Rompuy, you tell us that the debt has been reduced and you attribute this reduction to the policy of reorganisation of public finances and the gradual but slower-than-expected resorption of the structural deficit. You forget to say that it is also due to the resale of BNP Paribas' assets. In my opinion, it seems to me that we must be able to call him back. This has been attributed to the public debt and the Minister of Finance will not deny it. This is reflected in the Court of Auditors' report. In the Minister of Finance's forecasts, referring to a target of 100% of GDP in terms of public debt reduction targets, there is also the resale of Belfius, a subject that I did not mention in the rostrum. But, Mr Van Rompuy, we must not tell us stories! The decrease in debt is also due to the fact that you sell assets. It seems to me that your presentation should mention it. Nuance better serves convictions, Mr. Van Rompuy! You still haven't answered my question. You have said that you agree with the figures of the National Bank, which considers that 4.6 billion (more precisely 4.685 billion) of the tax shift are still not financed. You do not tell us, you in the gallery, how you intend to finance the measures that you are advocating since you say: "I want to return to budgetary balance, I want to eliminate the structural deficit!" But tell us how you intend to do it!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-plenair-ip202x.u105	Mr President, Mr Laaouej, it seems to me that you do not understand the difference between, on the one hand, an active sale and, on the other hand, an effective reduction in public debt, which seems to me to be a matter of sound management and, on the other hand, taking over a pension fund on 31 December in order to make the current account sound and thus burden the future generations with a mass of pension charges, just to make the operating account sound. If you do not understand that difference, a serious debate is not possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-plenair-ip202x.u106	I'm not trying to argue. I'm just saying that it's not enough in the presentation to simply say that debt is decreasing, without explaining how and why it is decreasing, by simply assigning it to your fiscal trajectory related to your regular budget operations. It seems to me that, for the sake of clarity of the debate, you must remember that you have sold assets and that you will continue to do so. For the clarity of the debate, we must be able to say it, and you do not, as if it did not exist!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-plenair-ip202x.u107	The path to be followed is the path that the government has set out for a long time. On the one hand, we can see that, as a result of the rise in employment, income is also rising. I am thinking of the company tax and corporate profits. On the other hand, we must be able to compensate for this. The tax shift makes a gap in the budget for a long time. The problem is that this is largely offset by higher employment and the better economy. This was also the subject of discussion in committee. A number of measures, such as the caiman tax, the tax on taxation, the securities tax, the real estate tax. We have given the government the benefit of the doubt. The discussions in committee do not take place in the air and do not confine themselves to slogans. The Minister for Finance replied to the questions concerning the various capital taxes. Mr Laaouej, we have saved this legislature a great deal in the primary expenditure of some EUR 10 billion. This, too, will have to be continued, because budget deficits will be reduced, not without savings and tax cuts. It will always have to be a balance on which ideological discussions will also take place in the government. It is Parliament's job to be chairman of the Committee on Finance and the Budget to be very critical of the budgets. We must be very critical of the figures when it comes to tax revenue. We must be very critical of the reduction in expenditure. I have to say that the European Commission is saying the same thing. The European Commission warns for 2018 because the structural deficit could increase by 0.1% Minister Wilmès disagreed. According to the government, the structural deficit will fall by 0.3%. Both the Commission and the Court of Auditors say that we must ensure that these new taxes have the expected return. Indeed, the National Bank says that due to the tax shift, there will continue to be a deterioration of 0.2 to 0.3 percent of the deficit in 2018 due to the reduction in personal income tax and social contributions. On the other hand, we have to compensate for this with the new taxes. That is the weakness of the budget. That is also the weakness that the European Commission has put forward. However, the government has put forward a number of arguments. We will see next year what the yield will be real. That is one of the great difficulties. If we speak of 50 million more in the Cayman tax, above 460 million, we obviously do not know where the 460 million is in the budget because there is no post for that. But those returns may exist. That is one of the difficult points. Then there's the real estate beveks, 250 million. We'll see what the proceeds are. This can only be assessed in the final result.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-plenair-ip202x.u108	Mr. President, Mr. Van Rompuy, chairman of the Finance Committee, tells us that he agrees with the findings of the European Commission. He points out a very important point, but we still talk about half a billion. Mr Van Rompuy, you're right, we don't know how much the Cayman tax pays. Why? Because the government does not afford itself the means to have a statistic with a separate code. Would you agree to support a proposal that we could make to add a separate code that would identify the revenue from the Cayman tax? If we put forward such a text, could you, who deplore such opacity, support this request?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-plenair-ip202x.u109	I believe that the Minister has already said a few things about the debate. Additional measures have also been taken to tighten up the caiman tax. The question of whether a separate item in the tax return should be created is worth a discussion. That is something we should look at in committee. After all, we are also asking parties. We also believe that foreign accounts escape taxes. There is a clear need to do something about this. There can be no discussion about this. We just need to make sure that it can be translated technically and that we can estimate the return. That is one of the points on which we must work.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-plenair-ip202x.u110	As far as the Cayman tax is concerned, I want to say two things. Of course, such a proposal can always be discussed, but what I want to stress is that the problem of the Cayman tax, with regard to the income it generates, is much more complicated than it seems. Because what do we see? In particular, people are suppressing their constructions because they only know that tax authorities can look into it. It makes money, for sure and for sure! We can never detect the amounts that come from this action from taxpayers who have buildings today. That's how it is! We can therefore imagine creating a separate post, but I am quite clear that this will never indicate all the budgetary consequences, all the revenue consequences that a Cayman tax can generate, given the experience gained over the last two years.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-plenair-ip202x.u111	Colleagues, in addition, the fact that this is not a separate code has been discussed repeatedly in committee, including in the Panama Papers Committee. In substance, I would just like to ask you to take a look at the proceeds of corporation tax as such. If it is doing much more today, everyone agrees, no one in this hemisphere is questioning that 'the piece of what can be achieved through the caiman tax'. Why is that in there? Because a number of constructions are now being vetted. The companies saw that they would be taxed on this and were going to make an increased advance payment. This is why advance payments for companies have also increased dramatically this year. If you follow these figures from month to month, this should strengthen you in the belief that this tax does not effectively miss its purpose.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-plenair-ip202x.u112	Mr Van Biesen, if corporate taxes are to rise, it is mainly because we have a corporate gift policy that leads to an increase in corporate profits. There must be a link between the growth of profits and the growth of their taxes. I would also like to draw attention to the remarks made by the Minister of Finance. According to him, even if we had a separate code for the Cayman tax, we could not determine the amount. In other words, even if we had black-to-white numbers, we couldn't determine the amount. On the other hand, the government is putting forward a totally fanciful and exaggerated amount without knowing anything. In addition, this amount increases from year to year. The minister has just demonstrated that the figures for the Cayman tax are particularly fanciful.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-plenair-ip202x.u113	Mr Van Hees, you believe that the companies must make losses, the multinational companies must leave our country and the capitalists must be taxed away, so that there would be no money left for investment. Your program is ruining our economy. Yet you are here to give us lessons about the budget? Calculations teach us that the implementation of your PVDA programme costs 50 billion euros in the budget. Those are not my calculations, but they are calculations of Professor Defeyt from Namur, member of Ecolo. Your program also drives companies out of our country on a massive scale. Moreover, in your opinion, companies should not make profits, which would lead to massive closures. In the public opinion in Wallonia, you are evidently achieving 20%. Now, I call on all French-speaking politicians to untangle that mask. Members of the French-speaking community, rather than criticizing us, would better criticize Mr Van Hees' statements. After all, he misleads public opinion, but you never answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-plenair-ip202x.u114	No, sir! First, there is general accounting, Mr. Minister of Finance. When you lower the payroll with the index jump, you decrease the operating expenses. When you reduce employer contributions, you reduce operating expenses. If you reduce operating expenses, you increase the operating profit of the businesses and, as a result, the taxable profit. So having a return to ISOC, on the contrary, you should say, "That's the return effect." You should be happy about that. Simply, there is obviously a transfer of certain economic agents to other economic agents. That's what you're being blamed for. You're just brooding the fact that Mr. Van Hees recalls some general accounting rules. These are facts. Mr. Van Biesen tells us, which is still amazing: "You should be happy. Corporate income tax revenues are increasing. This proves that the Cayman tax is working. It's thanks to the Cayman tax."
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-plenair-ip202x.u115	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-plenair-ip202x.u116	Mr Van Biesen, yes, you are a great accountant, a great tax expert. Everyone knows! You made a specific budget line for the Cayman tax. Special! 460 million and you've now added 50 million. That is 510 million specific budget line! The Court of Auditors itself tells us: "I am not able to check this budget line because there is no separate code." So it's drowned in other direct tax revenues: corporate tax, personal tax, what do I know? We just ask you to allow us to do our parliamentary and budgetary control and to check whether what you have programmed as revenue is true. For that, we're talking about half a billion dollars. We'd talk about ten million, I wouldn't propose a separate code. We're talking half a billion dollars. For a separate code, just a royal decree. It's a decision that can be made in 24 hours.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-plenair-ip202x.u117	Mr President, I would like to respond briefly to a number of things that are being said here. I can't take it anymore. I hear Mr Van Biesen say here that we have to look at the income from corporation tax to know that the Cayman tax pays. The caiman tax is not for the companies, but is only counted in the personal tax. That's where the caiman tax provides a return. Don't tell me it's an increase in corporate tax revenue. You don't understand. I would like to hear Mr Van Rompuy say that an additional code is worth a discussion. You voted that out on the Panama Commission. It is easy to come back to the gallery and say that you would like to discuss this. I hear the Minister saying that we don't know well. I remember that at some point the Minister screened with a study by the National Bank to say that it would bring even more than the 460 million. We have repeatedly asked for this study and have not received it until today. I just wanted to make that right.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-plenair-ip202x.u118	With regard to the budgetary technique, apart from the interest – yes or no – in having an overall view of what the Cayman tax is about, and apart from the fact that there may be a separate line and the fact that there may be other effects related to the Cayman tax that would not be included under that term if a separate line were to be established, the Court of Auditors has also explained – this is important to say because we want to make it appear here that we are taking a budgetary risk of half a billion on non-existent revenues – that the 2018 budget indicates an increase of 50 million in the light of the new measures taken. The Court of Auditors explained this to the committee, saying that it itself understood that it was complicated to understand because it was counter-intuitive. As far as budgetary techniques are concerned, we rely on what has already been done for one year and we add 50 million. So the entire Cayman tax, with the exception of the additional 50 million, is already the basis of the fiscal trajectory. So we should not make it look like we're taking a budget risk on half a billion dollars. That's not right.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-plenair-ip202x.u119	Mr Van Rompuy, continue. You'll have to wrap it up.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-plenair-ip202x.u120	Mr President, I will not go into any more detail, but I would like to say the following. From the committee discussion it is a very good report, for which we have learned two things from the reporters. Firstly, the European Commission has a different definition of a structural deficit than we do. A structural deficit has been cleared for employment and revenue according to the economic situation. The European Commission has a different approach to this, which makes it particularly difficult for a parliament like us to judge who is right. Secondly, on the expenditure standard, the European Commission states that Belgium is 0.6% above that standard and should save 2 billion to meet the expenditure standard. We have received an explanation from the European Commission. Of course, this is not purely about primary expenditure. This includes the discretionary income that can be spent. There are also corrections for the one-off's. I make the following appeal to the government and to Mrs Wilmès. I would no longer like to experience the discussion we have now experienced, namely that the methodology of the Belgian Government is different from that of the European Commission. This makes it particularly difficult for us to judge what primary expenditure is. Are the Communities and the Regions and social security included in this? Are the new discretionary income measures included in this? This is a matter of technical discussion. I also know that public opinion is not aware of this. However, Parliament must watch over orthodoxy. We must also take care of it, and I have just argued in favour of the budget balance being established. It's 5 to 6 billion, which is only 1.5 percent more. When I was standing here almost 30 years ago, it was 11 percent. Achieving that balance is only a step by step. Anyone who thinks he can get rid of the budget deficit with one pull of pens is wrong. That's a Sisyphoid labor. I would like to warn all those who are now making great promises in the face of the elections. The flat fee costs 14 billion. Mr Calvo's programme in terms of the welfare guarantee is reported to cost 20 billion. The Minister of Finance announced a reform of the personal income tax. He says this will be budget neutral. I hope this will be the case. Mr Laaouej, if you start translating your four-day week budget... (...) : (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-plenair-ip202x.u121	Mrs. Kitir, John Crombez from your party is talking about free. Free's back in. The Stevaert period is coming back. I said: we must continue to save in a selective way and internal compensation must be provided for the tax reduction. That is one of the weaknesses of this government. Mrs Kitir, you say it very well: savings on the one hand, income on the other, otherwise there will never be a balance. Radical measures and electoral promises that wipe everything out like the PS saying that capital and labour must be taxed in the same way and that a four-day week is the best way to destroy our economy completely and ensure that there will never be a budget balance.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-plenair-ip202x.u122	Mr Van Rompuy, I think you should go back to what you have used to, that is to say, a serious and well-founded analysis. This is particularly the case on your blog, of which I am a very attentive reader, especially when you relay the criticisms of the European Commission, when you talk about a high-risk budget, etc. Here, you smoke us a little by evoking the program of each other. For my part, I am sticking to the facts. Madam Minister, I have to deny you about the Court of Auditors and the Cayman tax. On page 49 of the Court of Auditors' report, which states that "no figures are available on the current tax revenue (the Cayman tax), that its application remains very complex and that its product is very difficult to estimate". Stop saying that you have worked on solid foundations, since they are unstable and unknown. This means that even your additional 50 million are ultimately not based on anything. Yes, Mrs Wilmès, the Cayman tax puts your budget at a risk of half a billion euros. It's in the report, on page 49.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-plenair-ip202x.u123	Mr Van Rompuy, I have listened very carefully to you. I feel like at some point you told me anything because it was convenient for you. Let me remind you that you are a member of the majority and not of the opposition. You can come here and tell me anything you want, but then you'll vote everything out. That's what you're doing right now. I hear you say, "Oh, that PS with her 30-hour week and that sp.a who wants to give everything for free." Now you have to explain to me, because I no longer understand, to what extent is this different from these so-called stupid ideas that you are absolutely opposed to? You agreed in the Summer Agreement that people should only work four fifths from now on. Count out how many hours a week that is. In addition, people are allowed to earn free of tax. Free. They don't have to pay taxes on that. Free! What the PS and sp.a propose, you call stupid. It can't be. How does your policy differ from what we propose?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-plenair-ip202x.u124	Mr Van Rompuy, since you are speaking today for the whole CD&V, and as the news is rushing, I would like to ask you and the minister directly about the government's position on nuclear power. There's a new news, Mr. President. The Prime Minister, after he hesitated...
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-plenair-ip202x.u125	But not at this point in the debate!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-plenair-ip202x.u126	Mr. President, you're the president for everyone. In Today's Evening, the Prime Minister's remarks are hesitant. A press release was then released, of which we were all able to read. I see that at the same time, the N-VA group in the House officially communicates on Twitter, saying exactly the opposite of the Prime Minister's statement. I think it's overbidding, since now, the N-VA officially and frontally contradicts the Prime Minister's official communication. What is the position of the CD&V? What is the government's position? Is there still a government in spite of this simultaneous overbidding of debates, of which the Prime Minister is absent? Mr. President, have you been able to contact the Prime Minister? Mr Van Rompuy, I await your answer for the CD&V. As for the Prime Minister, are we going to be able to conduct this discussion here, in the House and not via an auction of press releases between parties of the majority? It's surreal and irresponsible!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-plenair-ip202x.u127	Mrs Fonck, I can reassure you that we will come back, but follow the line of the debate. There are interesting exchanges of views. It's the minister's turn.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-plenair-ip202x.u128	Mr Laaouej, you have summarized my remarks in an inappropriate manner. You've used me to a little more subtlety. [[Brouhahaha]] In general, you are a subtle person, which is not unpleasant to hear. But there's a shade you know. I do not express myself on the interest or lack of interest in a differentiated line with any additional considerations. I am talking about the budgetary technique of saying that, compared to the base already introduced in the fiscal trajectory, the Cayman tax, in 2018, represents a supplement of 50 million. When you say that, in the fiscal trajectory, we are taking a risk of half a billion, that is not true! The Court of Auditors has made this clear. Or you don't know about budget techniques. Excuse me! I ask the question openly. I'm willing to explain it to you at another time, but the reality of the budgetary technique is that we're going to take the 2017 base to add the measures taken by the government during the conclave, which is an additional 50 million. This means that as far as the overall fiscal trajectory is concerned, there cannot be a risk of half a billion dollars. I'm sorry to say that, but it's a misunderstanding.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-plenair-ip202x.u129	Mrs Kitir, I can repeat my speech, but I think I have been sufficiently clear and nuanced. Mr Calvo, I have also said that I would like to have a special debate on your EUR 20 billion prosperity guarantee, on where you want to get the EUR 20 billion. Mrs Kitir, it is Parliament's job to look critically at budgets. Well, I have looked at a number of issues critically, including the compensatory capital tax. I have said that this needs to be reviewed and evaluated and that this is the weak point. For the rest, we can see that the deficit is falling. That was the case under the former Di Rupo government, and it is now the case. There's another 1.5 percent road to go, 5 to 6 billion. That is only going to be done by creating primary surpluses. It's gotta be a mix. If taxes are to be reduced, this must also be compensated. For us, there must be an element of justice in this. I believe that this element is the element on which we as a group stress in this legislature, perhaps as the only one within the majority. However, that is our way. I'm not convincing you. Mrs Kitir, I will listen carefully to your alternative. I'd like to know how you look at things. However, I am convinced that the path we are putting forward is perhaps not a spectacular one, not a populist one and not a sloganical one, but the path of reasonableness that will lead to results.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-plenair-ip202x.u130	Just a little word. I wanted to reassure Mr. Van Rompuy. The CD&V is not the only party to defend fairness. So do we!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-12-13-54-plenair-ip202x.u131	Thank you, Mr. Piedboeuf. Colleagues, I have just learned that the Prime Minister will not be here today or tomorrow. He does not want to evade his international obligations. I'll let you know. I suggest that we have a discussion about this after the break, which we will allow for an hour. I am not prepared to open the debate on this right now. If the Chamber deems it necessary, we can discuss it at 2.15 p.m. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Wednesday 13 December 2017 at 2.15 p.m. The meeting is adjourned. Next sitting on Wednesday, 13 December 2017 at 2.15 p.m.
