ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-18-54-plenair-ip169x.u1	The meeting is open. The meeting was opened.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-18-54-plenair-ip169x.u2	Prime Minister, next week you will have the pleasure of meeting Mr Trump who will be visiting our country at the NATO summit. What are you going to tell her? We know that there are many internal problems in the United States of America, but there are mostly repercussions on the global balance. It seems to me important that as a country we speak out with a strong voice towards the new US President, because he is taking a lot of action that is a real danger to global balances. I remind you that Steve Bannon, Trump's main advisor, said: "We will be at war with China in five to ten years' time." It is one of the main components of NATO that says so, an alliance of which our country is a part. The United States of America has decided to increase its military budget by €50 billion to €570 billion, more than the next ten countries in terms of military spending. In terms of war too, Trump has demanded that our country continue to invest in NATO 2 per cent of our national production, or 5 billion a year. We therefore see that the President of the United States is a real danger to peace in the world. Trump has also made it clear that he does not intend to comply with international climate agreements. Not only had he already announced that global warming was an invention of the Chinese - we still have to do it - and above all, according to a Belga dispatch this morning, he said that the Paris agreements are not legally binding at all and that if they do not meet the interests of the United States of America, he would throw them on the ground. Trump was offensive to all women in the United States and the world, with immigrants and people taking all his discriminatory measures. Mr Prime Minister, will you dare, next Wednesday, to discuss all these matters with Mr Trump and to make it clear that Belgium disagrees with him about its willingness to call into question world peace and climate agreements, to divide peoples more and more in the world?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-18-54-plenair-ip169x.u3	Mr President, it is not on the same subject. Prime Minister, next week, dictator Erdogan will be coming to this country. He doesn't come here to discuss his latest decree on body hair removal in women. Unfortunately, he is not coming here either to bring a definitive end to the accession negotiations with the European Union. He's coming here as part of the NATO summit. Prime Minister, every visit by Erdogan involves risk derivatives. You remember his three-day state visit in 2015. By the way, you gave him a Grandlint in the Order of Leopold on behalf of the entire government, which is the highest award a head of state can receive in Belgium. Even then there were incidents between Erdogan's bodyguards and the Belgian security services. This week Erdogan was in Washington, where his own security services brutally tackled the Kurdish protesters. Prime Minister, the fact that Erdogan is coming to the NATO summit is one thing. However, I am particularly concerned about what that man will do before and after the NATO summit. Our security services fear that he will come to Brussels a day earlier to address his supporters. Mayor Mayeur has already indicated that he will prohibit such a manifestation. After those words, Erdogan immediately stressed that nothing will stop him. Prime Minister, my question is, are you going to stop him? Are you going to stop Erdogan from coming before and after the NATO summit in Ghent, Antwerp, Beringen or anywhere else? I hope that, for the safety of our citizens, you will not leave this to the local authorities. I am very curious to hear your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-18-54-plenair-ip169x.u4	Mr President, Prime Minister, in this context, my great concern is that of the police force. For at least two days, our police forces will be harmed to ensure the security of other heads of state and citizens as well as to ensure mobility in Brussels, which is not a small matter. These are missions that do not improvise and require a sharp organization. For nearly a month, however, the police unions have been concerned about the lack of information and consultation on the risk analysis of these events. It was only this morning that the unions finally received an invitation from Minister Jambon's office to attend a presentation of the risk analysis tomorrow. Forgive me, Prime Minister, this invitation comes a little late, not to mention that anti-Trump protesters are already arriving in three days. Without recourse from the trade union organizations - the law provides that if they do not agree with the risk analysis and the alignment of the planned workforce, they have a time to react - the police officers will therefore be faced with the fait accompli and will have to deal with the material they have already had to order, since, in the absence of a response from the minister for a month, they have been forced to take the initiatives with the professional conscience that is known to them. It also shows that some platoons will have to work 41 hours in a row, which is contrary to the Mammouth Act. Prime Minister, does the risk analysis take into account all the events planned on the sidelines of the NATO summit? How many platoons will be planned? When will the local police areas know they have to join these platoons? How can you ensure a positive response, given the impact of budgetary restrictions on them? In case of a positive response, when can they train? Have you ensured the adequacy of the police equipment already ordered with the necessary equipment (protection shells, etc.).( )? Will all the necessary vehicles have time to pass the technical inspection?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-18-54-plenair-ip169x.u5	Mr President, Prime Minister, I think you are going to have an exciting week next week with the visit of Trump and Erdogan. If Trump is still president next week, of course. If Trump is no longer president next week, then you can have breakfast with someone else of your own choosing. Some of us are against this visit, but we're not. For us, it is an excellent opportunity to make clear our vision of democracy, the rule of law and the free press. We believe that you should defend our standards and values abroad as well. We are counting on you for that. Please do not make this a tea party, but make it a spicy, clear and consistent conversation. Ecolo-Groen wants you to try to bring the climate to the attention of Donald Trump. Donald Trump is often made laughing about, but we may forget that his proposals and what he has already done in terms of climate, are bloody serious and dangerous. It grants permits for new pipelines and coal plants and removes commitments from its predecessor. That's not nothing! What is under pressure here, ladies and gentlemen, is the Paris Climate Conference. This is a set of measures, also signed by the United States and China, which impose binding commitments on emissions of greenhouse gases, among others. Trump now wants to call this climate commitment into question, ladies and gentlemen. He's a climate-negationist. He wants to undo President Obama's promises with a pin stroke. This threatens not only the United States but the whole world, including Europe and our own country, Belgium. I would ask you to make this clear to him, but also to counter it. How can you best do that, Prime Minister? You can do this by setting up a climate coalition of countries that want to move forward together with Belgium; countries that do believe in clean, clean technologies; countries that do believe in renewable energy. Let this be Belgium's answer to Donald Trump's visit. Try to bring countries together and go for that climate coalition, so that we can be a pioneer and move forward, no matter what people like Donald Trump think of it.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-18-54-plenair-ip169x.u6	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will try to react to the various points from which you have dealt with your questions. Mrs Caprasse, the first point is the issue of security. This is a special meeting, attended by 28 Heads of State and Government, including, for the first time since their election, the new US President and the new French President. It is therefore an unusual meeting, although our country, being the headquarters of many international organizations, has a tradition of organizing international meetings. I can tell you that every effort is being made, mainly from the Crisis Centre, to coordinate the deployment of security services. Day after day, hour after hour, the Crisis Centre follows the situation and tries to anticipate the difficulties we will face. I'll give you an answer, too. We are indeed trying to clarify the intentions and programmes of a number of international leaders who will perhaps be a few hours before the Brussels Summit. We are particularly attentive to this and we will take into account the experience of the past, in this regard, or the experience from abroad, Mrs Pas. This first point dealt with security issues. I come to the second, which is on a more political level. This is the first NATO meeting since the election of the US and French Presidents. We will have to address many extremely important political issues, given the geopolitical evolution of the past two or three years. I come to the first priority. It is a momentum for reaffirming the priority of the fight against terror. It's on the agenda. How can we strengthen an intelligent strategy in the fight against terror, for greater security and stability? We know how important it is that Belgium also makes a positive contribution to this. A second extremely important element is the whole range of geopolitical issues. We are well aware that the world around us has changed considerably: the unsecured situation in southern Europe – as has often been said in this House; the complicated dialogue – at least we can say – with a big neighbour, Russia. What strategy can be developed to strengthen this capacity for security and stability? The third element is a point that I care about. I think that we should try to make more progress within NATO towards a European defence strategy. Strengthening and consolidating a European defence ambition also seems to me to be an important point. Mr De Vriendt, it is the tradition that a number of formal and informal bilateral talks are planned in the framework of such an international meeting. At the moment, I am not in a position to officially confirm which formal bilateral meetings will take place for two reasons. First of all, there is safety. Secondly, we are finalising the agenda in this area, there are many formal discussions next to the formal summit meeting. In any case, every time we have the chance to speak with the US, we will put emphasis on important points for ourselves. I share your reasoning regarding the climate. Together with our fellow MEPs, we will develop and defend an ambitious strategy, including at political and diplomatic level. We will also advocate support for multilateralism. We're afraid, after a number of Donald Trump statements about that. We believe multilateralism is an important political area at international level, at NATO and also at the UN level, in order to make progress, in the positive direction, with an ambitious objective for the future. As far as fundamental values, European values and universal values are concerned, we have had a bad experience, for example in the context of migration decisions. We have also found that the system of checks and balances exists in the US, fortunately. That is also an important plea, it is about our fundamental values. I want to be extremely clear: Europe, Belgium and the United States are historic partners in economic and security terms. I wish to consolidate and maintain these ties, but without naivety. We will defend the opinions we have to defend on the various subjects I have just mentioned. Thank you for your support.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-18-54-plenair-ip169x.u7	Prime Minister, I have heard your answer. I would have liked you to go into more detail about the major problems that exist in the world today and about the aggressive tone of Trump, who does not want multilateralism at all. On the contrary, we hear genuine language of war against other countries. We hear clearly that the United States simply wants to throw all our agreements on climate change into the trash. They are now building two new pipelines. In short, I believe that the situation is bad at the moment, and that Belgium should dare to take a tougher tone against the United States. We must say clearly that we do not agree with them and that we do not let the world order break, that we do not allow the balance to be totally upset by the President of the United States, Mr Trump. Prime Minister, you must know that there will be an effective mobilisation of the population. There is a demonstration next Wednesday at 5 p.m., on which a lot of people will say clearly: 'Not in our name!' Not in our name! Let us not go on like this. Belgium must dare to say that if we continue with the language of war, and if we continue with the climate in this way, everything will go to hell. If we continue to discriminate against migrants in this way, if we continue to discriminate against women, the world situation will get worse. Belgium must dare to say clearly: 'So it cannot go on.' Belgium must stop following the United States because it is a powerful country. Let us go for our values, let us put forward values of solidarity.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-18-54-plenair-ip169x.u8	Mr President, Prime Minister, next week our police and security services will have their hands full to secure the NATO summit with 28 Heads of State or Government. Figures like Erdogan can take advantage of that to kick their asses and rattle their supporters. A man who recently threatened that every European anywhere in the world would no longer be safe on the street can be expected anything. You have just said that you are very attentive. I ask you to do everything in your power to avoid riots. I am asking for this in the first instance for the safety of the citizens, but I am also asking for that in your own interest. You like to shine on NATO summits and European summits. I understand that, because your domestic policy is not to unpack, but make sure that such summits are not overshadowed by incidents.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-18-54-plenair-ip169x.u9	Prime Minister, your answer is very evasive. Of course, you have to worry about safety and everything will be put in place but I did not have an answer to my questions, which were still quite sharp. I also regret that Minister Jambon is not here to answer these more detailed questions, which are important to our citizens. After everything our police forces have experienced, especially following the attacks, I hope that they will be on their way to face the arrival of several heads of state, two of which are at the bottom of the polls and are not appreciated by the population. I hope that you will take into account what we can do afterwards to thank them and encourage them in their task because they will spend a long, particularly challenging weekend, without being able to be with their families.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-18-54-plenair-ip169x.u10	Prime Minister, I would ask you not to underestimate how much the Paris Convention on Climate Change was a signal of new hope, of ambition and of the belief that a better, cleaner, clean future is also possible. Protect that Paris agreement and certainly do what is necessary in your own country to move forward. Let us be honest, in Belgium too, it is all too slow to set our country on the path to that green economy, which is not only good for the climate and our environment, but also for our businesses and our economy. As for Erdogan's visit, let's be clear. We should all be very aware that Turkey needs Europe in trade matters much more than the other way around. In the current circumstances, with the violations of human rights and the undermining of the rule of law in Turkey, there can be no question, as far as we are concerned, of Turkey's accession to the European Union or of new agreements with Turkey on anything else. There too, we must draw a clear red line, where too we must protect and defend our values and values.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-18-54-plenair-ip169x.u11	Prime Minister, we are facing a decisive deadline for the introduction of the financial transaction tax. Civil society is once again rising to the niche. The TTF is now or never! In referring to TTF and enhanced cooperation, you said: "We must succeed in removing technical and political obstacles. It's a matter of elementary equity." You made this statement at the rostrum of the United Nations. So you're holding this kind of speech abroad. On the other hand, you have a hard time taming your Finance Minister. Indeed, from the very admission of the European Commission - Pierre Moscovici told us in committee - Belgium's attitude has changed radically. The Minister of Finance has obviously put a lot of energy into finding disadvantages to the coming into force of this tax. Some around the table even talk about a rotting strategy. We'll have heard everything. This raised a problem for public debt. However, Prime Minister, if it is going wrong, it is more because of your fiscal policy than because of the FTT. We have also cited shortcomings in negotiations with our Benelux partners - as if we suddenly found out that the Netherlands and Luxembourg are not involved in enhanced cooperation. Then we talked about difficulties with pension funds. This is an attempt to make it appear that the TTF was going to attack Belgian pensioners, while your government is taking care of it without any scruples. In short, Prime Minister, there will be an ECOFIN next week on the sidelines of which the States participating in the enhanced cooperation will see each other and wait for Belgium's green - or red - light. Could you tell us, Prime Minister, whether you are going to define a clear mandate with your Finance Minister and whether Belgium will definitively accept the ultimate compromise that is on the table?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-18-54-plenair-ip169x.u12	Prime Minister, when the financial sector hocus pocus exploded in 2008, our country, like other European countries, had to go deep into the money pocket to save banks. On top of that there was an economic crisis, which forced our people to surrender heavily. All the governments since then, the Van Rompuy Government, the Leterme Government, the Di Rupo Government, three governments with which you yourself were associated as minister or party chairman, had the absolute agreement that the financial sector had to contribute through a tobin tax. As of 2014, in the government that you lead, your Minister of Finance has at any time put stakes in the efforts to request a contribution from the financial sector in the context of enhanced cooperation, a fee of 0.1 % or 0.01 % on financial transactions. The same government you lead, Prime Minister, is making an increase in VAT from 6% to 21% for the ordinary man, but 0.1 or 0.01 % for the financial sector, ho ho, your minister and your government are not giving at home! My question to you, Prime Minister, is as follows. There is an Ecofin Council on Tuesday. In the margins of this Ecofin Council, the decision is on the table. Will you now finally give your Minister of Finance a march order to agree on Tuesday's proposal for a tobin tax?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-18-54-plenair-ip169x.u13	Prime Minister, look at the situation in other countries, in Europe and in the world. Observe the political situation, the anger of the citizens, and realize that it is time to give a signal to those who want more tax justice, and who want the income of capital, from investments, to contribute a little to the financing of collective functions, and not just to solicit the workers alone. A signal to say that we must curb the financial speculation that causes economic disasters and threatens the budgets of the states, as we have seen here very shortly, with the Dexia and Fortis dossiers. A signal to those who believe that new means are needed to deploy new policies on education, solidarity, economic support and environmental protection. A signal to those who want the European project to start again around concrete and positive battles. This signal could be given if on Tuesday Belgium, by the voice of its Finance Minister, emerged from its hypocritical attitude regarding the tax on financial transactions. You will tell me again that your government is in favour of it in its programme. You will also repeat to me all the conditions that you have laid down and that all of Europe points our finger at us, whether it is Commissioner Moscovici or our colleagues from other national parliaments. They say: "Belgium blocks the tax on financial transactions. Belgium does not want tax justice. Belgium does not want to stop speculation. Belgium does not want new resources for public finances. Belgium does not want a European project." That's their conclusion. Deceive them, Prime Minister, and ask your Finance Minister to give a positive signal about this enhanced cooperation that we call for in order to revive Europe and tax justice.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-18-54-plenair-ip169x.u14	Mr President, this is a debate that we have had several times in the last few months in plenary. And, once again, I will recall a number of elements, including factual ones. As you said, Mr Gilkinet, we support - the government agreement expressly specifies - this ambition to move forward at European level to introduce a transaction tax that is speculative in nature. That is what is provided for in the government agreement and I confirm, word for word, what I said in the rostrum of the United Nations. I do believe that we must take this step and remove the technical and political obstacles on the subject in question. I cannot accept that, after the sitting, we are trying to make Belgium and the Minister of Finance feel guilty by means of falsehoods! A fact: if Belgium did not participate, it is possible for countries to do so without us. Why don't they do it without us, if it's so simple? Second element. You have to open your eyes in relation to that. Over the last few months, the political context in Europe has changed considerably. Honestly, I'm a little tired of the hypocrisy in this file. We all know, for example, that Germany fears the situation after the Brexit. Emmanuel Macron also expressed his doubts about this in France. In short, we support the efforts to reach an agreement. We are trying to convince more countries. And, as a icing on the cake, I intend to place the FTT item on the agenda of the European Council as soon as possible. I'm tired of hypocrisy. I plead for the truth in this matter. I no longer accept the strategy of systematically culpabilising the Belgian Government. That's not right and it's not loyal.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-18-54-plenair-ip169x.u15	Prime Minister, you are uncomfortable on this issue. Your anger here proves it again. My question was simple: yes or no, are you going to accept the compromise that is on the table? You drown the fish and you don't answer. You have nevertheless been relatively clear with this sentence: "It is possible to do so without us." What has just been declared here is symbolic. This is yet again, Prime Minister, proof that your words about your commitment to the European project are just "com". Prime Minister, if you believe in the European project, it is now or never that you have to show us, and say yes to more tax justice. Furthermore, we are also impatient and attentive about the decision you will make on the fairness tax. Prime Minister, this is the time or never to show that this time you will resist the pressure of your N-VA partner, who is known to be opposed to this project.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-18-54-plenair-ip169x.u16	Prime Minister, I quote one sentence from the text you read in New York on 16 September. "It's a matter of elementary equity." That's what you said on September 16, 2016. How long are we gonna wait for that? Once again, you use false arguments. You refer to the Brexit, while you are well aware that in Great Britain a stamp duty of 0.5 % is levied. This is a tax of 0.1 or 0.01 %. I'll tell you what the situation is. In the debates on the future of Europe, you can take the view that you want to move forward faster with a limited group. Well, the tobin tax is an example, but it is the N-VA that prevents you from converting into action what you are confessing on the European stage. We understand.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-18-54-plenair-ip169x.u17	Prime Minister, I welcome the end of your response and your commitment to submit this dossier at a European summit. I hope that you will put forward better arguments to your fellow Presidents and Heads of State than those put forward before the plenary assembly of this Parliament. Generally speaking, you argue that Belgium is in favour of the tax on financial transactions, but it imposes a series of conditions that make this support impossible to achieve. Today, you propose other arguments: "They can do it without us", "It's not us who block, it's others." You're looking for culprits. Belgium must return to its position at the top of the European peloton, rather than being the class's anchor. Call on your Finance Minister before the ECOFIN Summit on Tuesday, and demand that he take a more proactive, open position for this enhanced cooperation project to materialize. The European project needs it more than ever.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-18-54-plenair-ip169x.u18	Mr President, Prime Minister, the opposition to CETA has led our debates on many occasions. We will, of course, remember the important mobilisation of citizens, civil society, but also the political world on this treaty. We will also recall the work that has been done in our parliamentary assemblies as well as by the Walloon government, in particular by its Minister-President, Paul Magnette, who has achieved significant progress in defending our public services, our social and environmental standards. Among these Walloon achievements is Belgium's request for an opinion to the Court of Justice of the European Union on the incompatibility of the ICS dispute settlement mechanism within the framework of the European Treaties. Prime Minister, I hear you are in agreement with this progress. It is, no doubt, for this reason that, since October, in other words for seven months, the federal government has been dragging its feet and refusing to make this request linking it to another opinion of the Court of Justice on a treaty between the European Union and Singapore. Since this opinion was delivered on 16 May, you no longer have an apology. We can now move forward on this issue. Prime Minister, when is Belgium finally going to ask the European Court of Justice for its opinion? Can you commit, today, to a deposit before this summer? The Minister-President, Paul Magnette, sent you a draft memorandum on March 15. Can you confirm that the contribution of Foreign Affairs will be made quickly?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-18-54-plenair-ip169x.u19	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, last week the European Court of Justice delivered an important ruling on the free trade agreement between the European Union and Singapore. Mixed treaties which regulate not only trade but also investment must be ratified by the European Parliament and by each national parliament. The Walloon Prime Minister saw his chance to send harlots into the world. He felt strengthened by that statement in his opposition to the trade agreement between the European Union and Canada, the CETA Convention, which he held hostage for weeks. However, ladies and gentlemen, those whorehouses are completely misplaced. After all, what does the Court's judgment still determine? It states that it will be just easier for the European Union to exercise its exclusive trade power with the European Parliament and without national parliaments. The Court extends the exclusive powers of the European Union. For us, the trade treaties must be broken down from the investment treaties in the future. In this way we can play out our greatest asset, the largest economic market in the world. This will be necessary in order to create jobs and continue to grow the economy in Belgium and in Europe. Prime Minister, my questions are twofold. Firstly, how do you evaluate the Court's ruling? Secondly, will Belgium urge the European Union to split up future trade agreements from investment treaties?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-18-54-plenair-ip169x.u20	Mr President, Prime Minister, the Court has delivered its opinion on the Singapore Treaty, and it is a camouflage. A camouflage for your little maneuvers that consisted of waiting, hoping that the opinion would be contrary. In this way, you could have found a pretext for not asking for an opinion on CETA. That's a mistake! It's also a camouflet for other Liberals! I am thinking of Karel De Gucht or our colleague, Dewael, who said outright that Parliaments' opinions should simply be overtaken. It's missed too! Another Court ruling stated that the Commission had no valid reason not to register the Citizens' Initiative "Stop TTIP", which concerns TTIP and CETA. Again, there is no question, including for the European Commission, of zappering the opinion of civil society, of the population! The great liberal family decides on democratic procedures and then decides to do without it when it does not suit it! We're out of democratic procedures! However, this opinion does not welcome everything, in particular the fact that, especially for the following treaties, States do not have a say in a range of important aspects, such as the liberalisation of public services or non-market services. We have already heard Mr Vandenput and others say that the Treaties will be split up and that the opinions of the national parliaments will again be overshadowed. It is apparently a pro-CETA mania to zapper all democratic procedures! Prime Minister, how do you interpret this opinion? You've been waiting for months on this false pretext. Do you still have to wait until the summer or even later to refer the matter to the Court about CETA? What questions will you submit to the Court? Will you continue in this obsession to defend exceptional courts for multinationals, as envisaged in the CETA?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-18-54-plenair-ip169x.u21	Mr President, I must admit that I was somewhat surprised by a number of messages that were delivered in connection with the question. I shall endeavour, as far as I am concerned, to present the facts as they stand and as they can be in the most objective and rational way possible. First point. Within the framework of the agreement between the federal government and the federated entities, at the time of the process that concerned CETA, as you said, acquired very impressive on the part of the Walloon government, it was agreed that an opinion would be sought. That opinion will indeed be sought, as I said in this rostrum, in the light of the opinion given by Singapore. Without waiting for this opinion, we have, for several months now, initiated the procedure for preparing legal documents in support of the opinion. So we are now in a position to finalize the legal arguments in order to be able to introduce them. You have been misinformed, Mrs Grovonius, since, of course, information was provided in March, but, for example, additional information from the Walloon government was received only a few days ago by the federal government. We will therefore make every effort to succeed, as soon as possible and probably around the summer, in formulating this request for an opinion, in a fair manner, as agreed in the Conciliation Committee at the time of the procedure on CETA. Second point. You are, let's say, very one-sided, unilateral, in my view, of this opinion on Singapore, which is actually much more nuanced than what you seem to indicate. Mr Van Hees, let me tell you that you are also wrong about this, since the decision on Singapore corresponds very precisely to the legal argument that the Belgian federal government made during the proceedings. What does that mean? This means that, indeed, there is now clarity. There is now more clarity about the distribution, the role of the European Parliament, the exclusive powers and the mixed powers within which national parliaments have to take decisions. In fact, this could mean that negotiations on treaties would be dealt with differently. The debate on this issue will be held at European level. What is the reality? Investment mechanisms and dispute resolution mechanisms are subject to mixed jurisdiction, as was argued by the federal government in the proceedings. On the other hand, the other aspects will be dealt with by the European Parliament. This surprises me, Mr Van Hees, when I hear you giving lessons of democracy, which may be inspired by your Cuban sympathies, because the European Parliament is a democratic parliament with elected representatives who are directly elected by universal suffrage. I cannot accept the idea that, when the debate takes place in the European Parliament, it would not be democratic. There is a fundamental divergence of views between you and us. Thank you!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-18-54-plenair-ip169x.u22	Thank you, Prime Minister, for these points of answer. I have been very well informed: I know that on 30 May there will be a meeting between the federal and the federated entities. The contribution of Foreign Affairs will be expected in this context. I regret, Mr Prime Minister, that I did not hear you on a clearer time frame and on a specific commitment from the federal government to make this contribution so that this request for an opinion to the European Court of Justice can, of course, arrive as soon as possible. Prime Minister, I do not want to be naive. And I'd like you to make a very clear commitment. That is not the case, and I regret it. It is unimaginable that this request for an opinion to the European Court of Justice could still be delayed. And I really hope that we can move forward quickly on this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-18-54-plenair-ip169x.u23	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your clear answer. We really need to seize the opportunity to make progress with the EU trade agreements. The reality is that each Member State, at the start of negotiations by the Commission, gives a mandate to the Commission. If the Commission then reaches an agreement with the other party, it is up to the European Parliament to approve that agreement. I can only conclude, ladies and gentlemen, that your group has absolutely no confidence in your democratically elected PS MEPs in the European Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-18-54-plenair-ip169x.u24	Minister, when you talk about Cuba, it reassures me because it usually shows a weakness in your arguments on the merits of the case. On the other hand, I have not criticized the European Parliament. I criticized the European Commission, which had overtaken a citizens' initiative. [[(...): (...)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-18-54-plenair-ip169x.u25	No, no, it was the European Commission – read the press – that refused the citizens' initiative and managed it! It refuses to apply what is in European legislation. The fact that you're hanging out, and obviously you're still doing it, shows that you know that this plan is unpopular. You're pursuing a policy of pitfalls. I would remind you that CETA and TTIP are agreements for the deregulation of all social and environmental standards. It's a competition for workers. This may be in line with your liberal plan to enrich a minority, but at least it is not in line with what the public is asking for, including the rejection of emergency courts for multinationals, which is unacceptable.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-18-54-plenair-ip169x.u26	Mr President, Prime Minister, Belgium is an unfair country. Let's take a look at your bill on the write-off of academic years for calculating the pension. We note that the COCOF is setting up a conflict of interest. In Le Soir we read that all French-speaking governments are going to have miraculously many conflicts of interest against all implementing decisions. The carousel has left and French-speaking Belgium does not hesitate to block. Then let us look at the Flemish Government. It does not create a third conflict of interest against the Brussels noise standards, because it is afraid of endangering your government, which has absolutely nothing to do with your government, but with the Brussels Region. Prime Minister, Belgium is an unfair country because arithmetic is different. Let me explain. The conflicts of interest between governments mean a 60-day suspension period. The Flemish Government sets up a conflict of interest, the suspension period is sixty days and we count nicely from one to sixty. Let us look back at the Brussels-Halle-Vilvoordesaga. There there were conflicts of interest raised by the French-speaking parliaments. The suspension period there is 120 days. However, during that period, Latin arithmetic was applied, because if we look at the conflict of interest invoked by the French-speaking parliaments, then I have to say that it was not 120 days but 285 days. In total, that game lasted four years and one month. French speakers, you have guts, we cannot always say that of the Flemings. Prime Minister, what are you going to do as Chairman of the Consultative Committee? Will it be in 120 days? Or will you also apply Latin arithmetic? What is the view of your Flemish government partners in this respect?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-18-54-plenair-ip169x.u27	Mr President, I am not convinced that I have understood everything, but I will try to give an answer, which is brave, I must say. I've listened carefully. What shall we do? We'll apply the law. There is a difference, I suppose, between a conflict of interest invoked by a government and a conflict of interest invoked by a parliament. That's not the same procedure. If a conflict of interest has been lodged by a parliament, this means, in the first instance, that there is room for consultation between parliaments, the Chamber and even the Senate, and then consultations are followed within the framework of the Consultation Committee. We'll apply the law. Period.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-18-54-plenair-ip169x.u28	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your explanation. I know: it's 120 days, 60+30+30 days. The Consultative Committee will be the last to be discussed, that's right. In the meantime, we've probably been 90 days. My question was very specific: will you allow that conflict of interest to end on Day 120? I can tell you that French-speaking Belgium does not hesitate to use and even abuse such blocking methods, whereas the Flemings often do not dare to use them. I therefore hope that the Flemish parties in your government will oppose the use of Latin arithmetic and 120 is not 120, but 285 days. I therefore hope, Prime Minister, that you will count in the same way for the Flemings as for the French speakers. Sometimes I have doubts about that. I hope that the Flemish parties in the government are very vigilant, because the Flemish government is not clawing. Flanders will, of course, remain incomplete, so Belgium will remain an unfair country.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-18-54-plenair-ip169x.u29	Prime Minister, a computer virus, a cyberattack, Internet thacking, they can all mean a lot of economic damage in Belgium. Moreover, a lack of confidence in the new technology, in the Internet, can arise, a technology that we need so badly in our Belgian context. That confidence can be restored and even strengthened. Just as one needs a driving licence on the highway, one also needs certain skills on the internet highway. We could therefore call for better training on safety with a digital driving licence. On the other hand, one can be stricter for the products themselves. It wouldn't be normal at all if someone could put a car on the market without seat belts. However, in 2017 it is still conceivable that companies will market software and certain telecom operators will offer the product the Internet without complying with the essential security requirements. That is absolutely unacceptable. Mr President of the Chamber, there are examples of software in our home that is more than 16 years old, Windows XP, and I fear that the government is still using software that has been known for years to be irresponsible and irresponsible to continue using it. However, this change will not be made overnight and this will therefore require some investment. One should be able to enforce a framework for the software providers, the providers. The telecoms law also stipulates that they must provide consumers and users with all the tools. In Belgium, there is no separate minister responsible for cyber security, but you have a very great responsibility in this area. After all, it is the Prime Minister himself who is doing full coordination. It is therefore important to make the best possible use of our resources. Prime Minister, what is the relationship between ministerial responsibility at the Cybersecurity Centre Belgium and the Computer Emergency Response Team? What has been the impact of the last major attack? Who is responsible when it comes to the providers? Is domestic and foreign cooperation all right, because the US security services were aware of the leak, but they failed to inform us in good time, because they saw opportunities for their own intelligence services? Finally, what was decided last weekend to do better in this area in the future?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-18-54-plenair-ip169x.u30	You're right. In recent years, we have faced a new form of threat. This was particularly noticeable in recent days, as a result of the global cyber attack. For some countries and also for some companies it caused huge damage. Fortunately, Belgium is not very affected by the cyber attack, but we are alert. At the start of the government, we immediately made important decisions. We have also had the opportunity in the committee concerned to have regular discussions on our strategy for better protection. What have we decided over the last two years? Firstly, we have set up the CCB. Secondly, we have made more capacity and more resources available. For example, there is the integration of cert.be to strengthen the capacity of the CCB. Thirdly, a few weeks ago, in the Council of Ministers, we adopted a plan to ensure better coordination of the various services in the event of a crisis. I am convinced that we need to step up our efforts towards a more preventive approach and a better awareness of public authorities, SMEs and businesses. This is necessary in order to strengthen coordination in this area. We happened to have a thematic Council of Ministers on security on the weekend of the cyber attack. An important chapter was devoted to strengthening initiatives, capacity and resources to better protect against this new form of danger in the future. In short, I share your reasoning that this is a crucial challenge. Maybe we've lost in the past tense. It is now necessary to work faster, to achieve faster results. With the CCB, with the various authorities, with the various economic actors, we will work hard on this, hopefully with the Federal Parliament, so that we can achieve additional results.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-18-54-plenair-ip169x.u31	Mr Prime Minister, you have shown that there is a willingness to step up. Cyber security requires an integrated approach for operators and the public authorities. In the real world, we would never accept, for example, the production of motor vehicles whose brakes suddenly fail after 15 years, when there is no solution. In the virtual world, however, one may make products without being obliged to provide updates. That is totally unacceptable. You say we've lost time. Unfortunately, I have to share that analysis. Since 2011, the Critical Infrastructures Act has existed and there are still problems with controls, plans and the appointment of inspection services. We need to do this very quickly. I call for the telecoms law to be fully implemented and for every Internet provider to assist its customers with very good security tools.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-18-54-plenair-ip169x.u32	Mr President, I wish the Minister a happy birthday. [[Applause]] Minister, I would like to take you back to the time when we were two years younger. Back then, I asked you a question about excessive administrative obligations for brokers and insurance agents in connection with Twin Peaks II. I would like to take you there and return to today, because I still have the same problem here. The sector is still overwhelmed by all kinds of obligations, the rules continue to accumulate, and if I may believe certain preliminary drafts, ladies and gentlemen, it is absolutely not going to improve, and all this under the guise of consumer protection. I want to, and I have to. The consumer must be protected and informed. But this, ladies and gentlemen, [[Mr Klaps shows four ring folders and hands them over to Minister Peeters]] is what an insurance agent or broker has to give to his customer today, even before he prepares fire insurance, for example. That is the letter of the law, and that is not workable, Minister. However, it was the intention of the government and of yourself to reduce the administrative burden. That's what the coalition agreement says. The future is still a big question mark. Documents from the FSMA show that the rules will still be tightened in the future, even though Europe does not actually demand that, and that is in line with gold-plating, something that is clearly stated in the government agreement that we are not going to do so. My questions to you are actually very simple, Minister. Will you ensure that the administrative burden for the sector is reduced or will you continue to grow? Can you confirm that there will be no gold-plating in the transposition of the European directive?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-18-54-plenair-ip169x.u33	Mr Klaps, it was very thoughtful of you not to forget my birthday. I thank you for that and for the gift we will cherish. All madness about administrative obligations at the end of your question refers to the new directive, the Insurance Distribution Directive. This is about consumer protection for the insurance consumer, which you also care about, and about a number of important elements, such as providing protection regardless of the distribution channel of the insurance broker, agent, insurance company and so on, and a level playing field. I assume that you agree that we must also ensure that an insurance product is offered to meet the needs and needs of consumers. We have drawn up a draft, which is now in public consultation. We have already received reactions from the insurance sector, saying that gold-plating is not the issue and that the draft sometimes goes beyond what the directive requires. Like you, I'm very sensitive about that. When the results of the public consultation come in, I will certainly take this into account in order to achieve, in consultation with the sector, a good balance between adequate consumer protection and a reduction in the administrative burden on the insurance sector, including insurance intermediaries. We will look into this matter further. I assume that you will also encourage my colleague, the Secretary of State for Administrative Simplification, at least if it is his birthday, to do so.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-18-54-plenair-ip169x.u34	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. You know that the sector has already suffered a lot and that the number of jobs is falling, including through digitalisation, but it is precisely the brokers and agents who provide jobs and a close relationship with their customers in each municipality, under each church tower. They put a lot of work into that. I hope that we will not burden them with additional administrative burdens. I am very pleased with your formal confirmation in that regard. Let us continue along this path together.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-18-54-plenair-ip169x.u35	Mr President, Minister, I too wish you a happy birthday. I didn't bring any gifts or flowers, but fortunately I didn't bring any flowerpots. Minister, on your birthday you announced an idea that we could read in the newspaper this morning. In the meantime, you have also made additional comments on television. Your idea is specifically aimed at a number of sectors in our economy that can use some support, in particular the construction sector and e-commerce. You will add that other sectors might be eligible. Minister, the idea is not new. In the first tax shift, an amount of EUR 600 million had already been allocated to the construction sector, which, in view of its competition with the Eastern European labour force, was then requesting additional support. As you yourself have pointed out in the context of e-commerce, night work is one yard, but there is still a clear second yard, namely the yard of labour costs. You are talking about 17 % extra costs compared to the Netherlands. You are now announcing a solution for these sectors. That's useful. If you want to reduce labour costs, we can only support you in this. My questions are as follows. First of all, what's new? Is this about the implementation of what was agreed in the first tax shift or is it about a bis that seemed to announce you this morning? Secondly, for e-commerce, apart from the financing of labour costs, there is still the problem of night work. Are you planning any extra business for that? Thirdly, if it is an extra tax shift, what about the financing of that extra part?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-18-54-plenair-ip169x.u36	Mr President, Mr Deputy Prime Minister, some words in the political vocabulary do not go unnoticed because they are heavy of meaning, full of positive or negative connotations. They create the debate. The word tax shift is one of those words that are not unanimous, including, moreover, within your political group, since regularly, some members, not least, are concerned about the lack of funding for the first tax shift. And now you come with the proposal for a second tax shift, or a tax shift bis, this time for the e-commerce sector and the construction sector, if I understand correctly. Since you talk about it in the press, I think it is important that we can also discuss it in Parliament. Deputy Prime Minister, I would like to ask you about the content of your proposal, its impact and how you have developed it. What mechanisms do you plan to use? Who would be the beneficiaries? What other sectors have you alluded to? Have you had any contact with the services of the European Union? Europe is not in favour of over-targeted burden reductions on a sectoral basis. There is a difficulty here. How do you plan to overcome this difficulty? Have you had any contact with the sectoral federations? You are using the argument of the disadvantage faced by Belgian e-commerce companies in relation, in particular, to companies in the Netherlands. However, the impact of e-commerce development on traditional proximity trade, which is also in great difficulty, could also be questioned. We should not correct an imbalance by accentuating another imbalance, to the detriment of our local businesses. Have you had contact with your Finance and Budget colleagues on the issue of funding your proposal? That is an important question. If this is a tax shift, there must be compensation. Has it already been defined? What is its volume? Finally, have you had any contact with your colleagues, the Ministers M. De Croo and Mr Borsus? Minister Borsus paid attention to the problem of social dumping, particularly in the construction sector. Are you on your own or is there a consultation within the government? Depending on your answers, we will be able to assess the credibility of your proposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-18-54-plenair-ip169x.u37	Mr President, Mr Lachaert, Monsieur Dispa, you vous remercie pour vos questions. Thanks for all the questions. First, the tax shift. When we introduced it, not everyone was convinced that it should have such an envergure. There were also doubts about the effect of that tax shift. Thank God everyone is now convinced, including international institutions, that we have done a good thing with the tax shift. That's not new. Fourteen days ago, I said exactly the same thing about e-commerce. Mr Lachaert, it is true that this is not new. Sometimes something comes up in the newspaper and sometimes it doesn't, depending on many factors. I have already stressed that there are still specific problems in addition to the tax shift. Call that a tax shift special or bis, I leave that in the middle, but certain sectors are faced with additional obstacles or challenges despite the important tax shift we have implemented. The first is construction. You yourself referred to the problems of social dumping, posting and so on. You also know that at tax shift I for 2020 we had foreseen EUR 604 million to do something specifically for the construction sector. So, beyond the tax shift I. It is very unique that all the social partners in the construction sector have been unanimous in asking all the social partners to spend not only those 604 million well, but also earlier and not to wait until 2020 to spend it. We have already had a lot of meetings with the social partners in order to examine what instruments that is possible and, secondly, what Europe thinks of it. We have already had contact with Europe, because before we know it, there is state aid and there is an additional problem. So that's one. The social partners have put forward a proposal: €6 reduction of labour costs for the construction sector in the context of the problem of dumping, etc. We've already talked about e-commerce. I said here fourteen days ago that the problem of flexibilisation is not, as far as I am concerned, the main problem. The main problem is that we have a 17 percent difference in wage costs with the Netherlands. Now we can organize as much flexibility as we want, and we will talk about it, but the big difference is a cost difference of 17%. The question here is whether we can respond to this. I have discussions on this with the social partners in the sector to see how we can deal with it. There are also two other sectors asking party for special services on top of the tax shift. In the inland waterway sector, there is a 30% difference between the Netherlands and France. The question is whether we can do something for this too. Finally, the transport sector also requires an additional incentive. The question is what instruments we can use to achieve this. Budgetaryly, we need to see where we can get that money from. EUR 604 million has already been earmarked for the construction sector in 2020. That's a challenge. I think this is an important debate on employment, a debate in which we can hopefully reach an agreement in the coming weeks and months. Moreover, if we can move forward in specific sectors and if Europe accepts the use of specific instruments for this purpose with Europe, we have careful contacts to see if our solutions are acceptable to them, so this can really make a difference. The current tax shift has a very positive effect on employment. We can create an additional employment effect for those sectors that are struggling with the tax shift special or bis, as you wish. With the instruments we use, we can make a clearer link between what we get and the additional jobs that we create in terms of funding. This gives funding a different dynamic.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-18-54-plenair-ip169x.u38	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. It is indeed partly about the EUR 604 million and about a possible extra. When it comes to reducing the wage burden, of course we are your partner. That's a good idea. We are going to support you in that. You should try to do that. However, you will have to work in different areas at the same time in order to effectively strengthen employment in certain sectors. You have said that the tax shift and the employment plan of this government already provide 120 000 additional jobs. If we want to correct the problem in the construction sector, we will have to work on wage burdens and fight against social dumping. This is what you are doing with your colleague De Backer. Last week the newspaper read that for the first time in a long time Eastern European construction workers have fallen. This has to do with better controls. As far as e-commerce is concerned, Minister, labour law remains a scary framework. You can allow it to be cheaper, but if you can't employ anyone after 20:00, that doesn't help us anything. You will have to deal with this element together with us.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-18-54-plenair-ip169x.u39	Mr Deputy Prime Minister, I consider you a serious man and therefore I give credit to your proposals, especially since you have highlighted the contacts with the social partners, in relation to the problem of construction. You also mentioned the links with the services of the European Union. Having said that, I am not completely reassured. First, you see tax shift as a good deal. This assessment is not unanimous: this process could prove to be a poisoned gift. We should therefore be more careful, and even more careful, as you tell us that the operation could be financed by the return effects, by the jobs created. We ask to observe the results before we are fully convinced. You also do not provide an answer as regards competition with the traditional sector. The local trade also deserves our full attention. In total, members of the majority have ideas about everything about taxation, but they only have ideas. We would like to judge on a piecemeal basis the realization of these, at the end of your reflections.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-18-54-plenair-ip169x.u40	Minister, gelukkige verjaardag! As we know, the trial period was abolished on January 1, 2014, as part of the harmonization of the status of workers and employees. This harmonization was the result of several trade-offs between employers and trade unions. It is also based on a tense balance. This trial period had its full meaning and usefulness for both employers and workers. It allowed employers to test the real skill of the worker, in situ. It allowed us to see how the new worker could integrate into the enterprise and share its spirit. For the worker, it was also very important. He could see if this new job matched his skills, motivation and career expectations. It appeared to the MR that the reintroduction of this trial period was something important. That had been mentioned in the government statement. It was expected that the Group of Ten would address this issue and make possible concrete proposals. That is what happened at the end of last year, since the G10 was instructed by you, Minister, to make proposals and analyse this issue. I would therefore like to ask you the following questions. The press reported this morning that a first meeting had been held yesterday. It is surprising that it will be held so late, as it was requested and expected to take place in December last year. In addition, the National Labour Council (CNT) had issued its report. Could you tell us more about this one? Finally, it is clear that a deadline must be met: the date of 30 May will soon arrive. Could you tell us more about the progress of this consultation?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-18-54-plenair-ip169x.u41	Mr President, Mr Friart, I will be very brief. It is true that in the past I had already asked the social partners for their opinion. On 18 April 2016, I instructed the NTC to evaluate the first phase of the single status and, on 23 November 2016, I asked the Group of Ten to give an opinion on the matters you have reported. The Group of Ten also met yesterday. The topics you are asking me about were discussed on this occasion. For me, the most important thing is that the G10 decided to hold a final meeting on June 6. It will be crucial, to the extent that an agreement can be reached - at least I hope so. Otherwise, it will be up to the government to rule. For the rest, I consider it very wise not to clarify all the eventualities, but rather to offer the Group of Ten the possibility of reaching an agreement on 6 June. I am therefore prepared to wait until that date.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-18-54-plenair-ip169x.u42	Minister, thank you for your clarification of the new deadline. I note, in any case, that we have a government that is fighting for employment. Moreover, the results recorded are excellent. Employment and investment are increasing. Similarly, the number of enterprises continues to grow. Never before have so many self-employed people settled until the government took office. Exports are also on the rise. In short, this is enough to make Belgians optimistic and motivated. Of course, we must continue to overcome all the obstacles that could hinder this dynamic. In any case, we believe that the restoration of the trial period should be seen as an objective path in the right direction.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-18-54-plenair-ip169x.u43	Mr President, Minister, on security, last weekend the government announced rather substantial concrete measures, which will systematically tighten up the network around serious criminals and suspected terrorists, without hindering ordinary citizens. I'm giving a little anthology of things I've noticed. In the fight against identity fraud, we will use biometric data and check passenger data more closely on international flights and travel. I am also thinking of the fight against the financing of terrorism, in which suspicious flows of money to equally suspicious non-profit organisations will be exposed and addressed. The shared security database will be expanded. I also mention the possibility given to judges to prohibit the early release of serious criminals. Finally, I'd say. A separate chapter, a separate action, is the approach to cybercrime. All units will be expanded and will be available twenty-four hours and will work round the clock. In connection with that last topic, you also took an initiative with Europol at the beginning of last year. You created the Internet Referral Unit, the IRU. In fact, we need to see that as some kind of digital watchdog patrolling the global web and tracking, neutralizing or removing hate messages and terrorist messages. Mr Minister, can you give me an interim report or state of play? Has the IRU achieved anything? Have messages already been deleted, websites and/or Twitter accounts closed? More than that, what happens to those account holders? Addressing the message is only one aspect. Is there anything going on with the account holders?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-18-54-plenair-ip169x.u44	Mr Metsu, under the impetus of Interpol, we did indeed set up an Internet Referral Unit in early 2016 within the Belgian police force. At present 21 full-time equivalents work there. By the end of the year, there will be 33. The task of the Internet Referral Unit is twofold. First and foremost, in judicial files, they are given orders from the judicial world to conduct targeted research on the Internet, but they also have a patrol right. As police patrol in the real world, they also patrol the Internet. That's the proactive approach. I can give you some figures on this. They've been working on it for four or five months. A total of 929 infringements were identified: 602 in terrorism cases, 113 in connection with child abuse, 26 in connection with illicit arms trafficking and 13 in connection with trafficking in human beings. The other files relate to thefts or drugs. So it's about all the elements of the criminal world. On the basis of the infringements detected, a judicial file shall be opened and a judicial investigation conducted. In the twelve months that the IRU is now operational, 174 sites have already been removed from the web.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-18-54-plenair-ip169x.u45	Minister, the figures and the answer surprise me pleasantly, but I am also a little concerned. I can't imagine that that unit wouldn't exist. What's that? We all know that terror, but also radicalisation and recruitment are spreading more and more digitally through the global web. I used to be taught that the most important thing in communication is to hear what is not said. Well, in the fight against illegality and digital terror, it is very important to see, detect, neutralize and criminalise what cannot be said, because messages of hatred and terror are punishable. I myself and the whole N-VA, and I suspect everyone with us, wish your unit very much success.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-18-54-plenair-ip169x.u46	Mr President, Minister, the Belgian Institute for Road Safety (IBSR) has tabled a study. The latter includes a range of recommendations on, inter alia, mobility, safety, traffic flow and the environment. One of the recommendations is the introduction of "variable speed limitation". There is a question here of limiting only downwards and in particular situations (denser traffic, under certain climatic conditions or in certain sections). Thus, in practice, the 120 km/hour rule on motorways is maintained by allowing an overall decrease in speed. These instructions would be displayed on dynamic panels that indicate real-time conditions. I am quite surprised by the suggestion made by the Minister for Mobility. Indeed, I do not understand very well that, as a safety officer, he can make such a proposal which is somewhat contrary to the latter. The IBSR also indicates that the implementation of such a measure would lead to various disadvantages, such as an increase in fuel by 4%, an increase in the number of serious injuries and minor injuries. Gains are estimated at only 2%. Minister, why are you making such a proposal that goes against the recommendations of the IBSR?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-18-54-plenair-ip169x.u47	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the IBSR recently conducted an inquiry into a whole range of aspects, including speed limitation for mobility. Ms. Poncelet referred to one aspect of this study that relates to the question of whether to maintain, vary the speed limitation. Should the speed of 120 km/hour be considered as a ceiling or can a higher or lower speed be considered? Minister, you believe that a strategy to develop smart speeds does not only mean reducing speed limits. In your opinion, in so-called fluid areas, it is possible to make possible the installation of sections of motorway at 130 km/h while respecting the Belgian reality where, as you have pointed out, the generalization of 130 km/h specific to certain neighbouring countries is not possible. You also pointed out that it is important to be able to reduce speed below 120 km/hour in certain sections, in consultation with the Regions. In other words, you obviously do not advocate a general increase in speed limitation, but a coherent and pragmatic variability of speed limitation. For a better understanding of the debate and to avoid the transformation of some of your remarks, I would like to ask you questions about this debate. Can you, Minister, first give us more details about the results of the IBSR study? How do you justify your analysis that increasing the limit to 130 km/h in fluid and non-accidental areas is not a taboo issue? What is, in your opinion, the behavioural benefit of the ceiling that could be led to 130 km/h on certain sections? Finally, the variability of the limitations that you defend is only possible if we modernise our signage and use dynamic panels? How does Belgium intend to become a European leader in the development of these systems?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-18-54-plenair-ip169x.u48	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, a few days ago I read about the IBSR study which my department commissioned to find out how to improve road safety and fluidity on our motorways. This is the first time that we have been able to obtain an objectivising study of the elements relating to a good choice of speeds on motorways, section by section, according to the topographical reality and the density of traffic. This is known as dynamic speed management, which can be implemented by means of remote control panels controlled by data-based traffic control. The goal is to have a smoother, safer and more reliable mobility. The study recommends the use of these speeds varying depending on the location, time of day and night, traffic density, weather and potential incidents. These panels communicate in real time the recommended speeds, segment by segment, according to density and danger. In this study, we also asked to analyse 130 km/h, since 130 km/h is the reference speed in all neighbouring countries. I would point out, however, that the accident rate in France and Germany is significantly below ours, while motorists practice 130 km/h. But the tree must not hide the forest. The goal is not to raise the maximum speed to 130 km/h. The reference speed remains 120 km/h but, depending on the fluidity, statistics and motorway configurations, why not climb to 130 km/h? It's a choice from the highway manager. In fact, the goal we are pursuing is that the speed limits are better adapted and that these adapted speeds are better respected because they are better understood by motorists. I take as an example the sections of motorways which are seven kilometres straight without exchanger and on which we drive at the same speed as on an 8% slope where there have been many accidents and where the standard remains 120 km/h. I will conclude by saying that if the Regions assume their responsibilities because the Regions are responsible (they are the road managers), they can reduce part of the road congestion by using adapted speeds section by section, by signaling variable messages in peak hours and reducing the number of deaths by 5 to 6%. This is what the IBSR study says. With respect to the authorization to increase the speed to 130 km/h, the IBSR concluded that maximum 1 to 2% would be earned on the sections in question and that the risk of a fatal accident would increase slightly, in the order of 0.5%. In conclusion, we need to go – I will discuss this with the Regions at the next ECMM – towards dynamic speed management on motorways according to the sections, depending on the weather and depending on the road congestion, especially around the big cities.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-18-54-plenair-ip169x.u49	Thank you, Minister. The study also states that the more moderate and homogeneous the speed of the vehicles, the more fluid the traffic, thus increasing safety and reducing CO2, etc. He's not sure going to 130 km/h is a good thing. You're comparing it with France. Belgian territory cannot be compared with French territory, where the density is much higher, where the number of motorway exits is much higher. We don't have miles without a highway ramp. Manoeuvring is much more important. The distances travelled are also much shorter. So it's really not comparable. On the other hand, in the Netherlands, Minister, the maximum speed is also 130 km/h, but the authorities are concerned because the number of accidents is increasing. They are planning to reduce speed on motorways. The reflection should therefore be continued. With regard to choice, it is true that it is up to the regions to ensure that it is practiced, but precisely, since it is not up to you to decide, have you not adopted a little demagogic attitude in this case?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-18-54-plenair-ip169x.u50	Thank you, Minister, for these nuanced answers and the clarifications you are making in this debate. I take it that you take into account the study of the IBSR, that you want an open debate with the Regions, with the associations, the motorway managers. No decision has yet been taken and this theme will be discussed within the framework of our country's consultation tools. You are advocating more intelligent and pragmatic speed variability – you obviously take account of technological developments – and not just a general increase in speed. It's important to remind him. You want to improve our overall mobility by taking into account the different aspects of it and its implications for the environment, safety, fluidity and efficiency of a journey from point A to point B, with the different modes of transport that open up to us. Minister, you are not a demagogic minister, but a minister who is part of the modernity to make our motorway network more efficient and efficient tomorrow.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-18-54-plenair-ip169x.u51	Mr President, Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, the poverty figures for 2015 are there. The year 2015 is the first full year in which the government was in power. What are the figures to be used to determine? The overall risk of poverty stagnates a little bit, it improves by 0.5 %. However, that is nothing to be cheerful about, because poverty is definitely rising. In our country 1 750 000 people live in poverty. That's huge. There is an increase of 9% among the poor unemployed, which is huge. We also see an increase in single parents, for 80% of mothers. Their risk of poverty is now 41.4%. What has the government done about it? Nothing. Isn't that right? Let us look at the single parents, especially women, mommies who have to pay for the housekeeping and care for the children. Try combining that with a full-time job. That's very difficult for couples in these times. What are these women doing? They work part-time very often. In certain cases, they receive a benefit on top of that. What did the government do? In January 2018, after she had made a bit of a fuss about this in 2015, she will simply halve the benefit for those women. Minister Peeters is not here right now, but I would ask him whether that is his policy of poverty. We have to do it. [[.]] Or, in the coalition agreement, I read: "The government is gradually increasing benefits to the level of the poverty threshold." That's great, but what do you call "gradual"? We have calculated the difference between a living wage for a single person and the poverty threshold. At the beginning of the 2014 government period, this difference was EUR 265. At the beginning of 2016 it was 3 euro less. At the beginning of 2017, that difference was 251 euros. Fourteen euros of the gap is closed; there is still a long way to go. If you carry on like this, it will take about 60 years before the gap is closed. Clearly, the fight against poverty has never been a government priority. It wasn't in the past, it's not today. Will it finally become a priority in the future? Madam Secretary of State, I therefore hope that you will be more decisive than your predecessor. What about raising benefits to the poverty threshold? Can you finally give us a budget and a timetable for this, which hopefully is less than the sixty years we have calculated? Women's poverty is rising. However, I have often denounced it here, one after the other socio-economic measure affecting women more than men. The gender test is an empty box. What will you do about it, because you are also Secretary of State for Equal Opportunities? Finally, what package of measures will you propose at the next Super-Minister's Council in order to make extra use of the vulnerable groups?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-18-54-plenair-ip169x.u52	Madam Secretary of State, more women and the unemployed on the verge of poverty is headlined by De Morgen today. In 2015, Madam Secretary of State, the number of poor is increasing; they are already 1 750 000 people, of whom the extra vulnerable are suffering. Among the unemployed, the number of people at risk of poverty increases significantly from 40% in 2014 to 49% in 2015. You can't look away from that. It is sometimes said that poverty is female and the figures unfortunately prove that for the umpteenth time. As the honourable Member said, the number of single parents, of which 80% are women, with a risk of poverty is already rising to 41.6 %. That's not nothing either. But, colleagues, the government stands by and looks at it. The government declaration states that benefits will be increased to the poverty line. Except for the usual mechanisms, we haven't seen any real increases. As far as I know, the Inter-Ministerial Conference on Poverty has not yet met in this legislature. We have already asked at least three times, first to your predecessor, then to you, when the child poverty plan will finally come. This must be achieved in cooperation with the regions and their representation is constantly being reversed. I assume that your colleague at Flemish level, Mrs Homans, still thinks she will save the world with 1-euro meals. The automatic granting of rights, so that people do not miss out on what they are entitled to, has already been pointed out by your coalition partner, Mrs Lanjri. Mrs Willaert has an excellent proposal for this, but we do not see any of it. I will conclude with two specific questions to you, Madam Secretary of State. Firstly, what will you do with these alarming figures? That's a logical question. Will you step up for the extra vulnerable groups? Secondly, what poverty organisations are asking for is a clear path, a clear timing for raising benefits. I would like to know from you why the government is putting 9.4 billion in the multiannual plan for defence, when at the moment there are 1 700 000 poor people in our country?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-18-54-plenair-ip169x.u53	Mr Willaert and Mr Jiroflée, thank you for your questions. Thank you, too, for analyzing the numbers. In order to avoid any misunderstandings, the statistics to which you refer have now been published, in 2017, under the heading EU-SILC 2016, but they refer to surveys carried out in 2015. That is how we know what we are talking about. From the full results, I get three cases. I believe I'm doing the same analysis as you. Firstly, income poverty is 15.5 % and has increased by 0.6% compared to EU-SILC 2015. Secondly, the proportion of families with very low working intensity is 14.7%. Thirdly, the risk of poverty and social exclusion is 20.7%. As coordinator of federal poverty policy, I've analyzed those figures with you. I can only say that the figures for 2015 are not good and that I will not be satisfied with them either. The overall figures show decreases and increases here and there, but I think we should conclude, first of all, that we really need to step up. I am therefore very pleased that a meeting of the Council of Ministers on social security and the fight against poverty is scheduled for shortly. A second conclusion I draw is that certain target groups are at unacceptable risk of poverty, in particular single parents and the unemployed. In my policy statement, I had already focused on single parents. I believe that we must make greater efforts in this area. It is therefore essential that I, together with all my fellow Members, as coordinator for federal poverty policy, consider what we can do, including in the field of work for the low-skilled. A poverty expert has also pointed this out. Another target group is the single women, who sometimes work part-time and receive benefits on top of that. In the past there has already been a commitment to job creation in the private sector. The social minima were increased. Is that enough? At the start of the Michael administration, in addition to the indexing of 2%, there was still 4.9 %. In addition to the indexation, the previous Di Rupo government had indicated only 2% increase. I think that's an improvement, but is it okay? No, it could be better. That is why I will continue to work on the gradual increase of the social minimums to the poverty threshold, taking into account the other social benefits. However, I would like to point out that the increase in social minima in 2016 and 2017 is not included in the recent EU-SILC figures, nor the impact of the tax shift, which are only palpable from 1 January 2016. Mrs Willaert, I will reform the gender test, because it is not always properly applied by everyone. Finally, colleagues have asked what measures I will submit to the Super-Minister's Council. We've been working on that in the Cabinet for a couple of weeks. I have analysed the figures and will propose a package of measures at the Council of Ministers as coordinating secretary of state. In particular, it will be an en-en-story, a plan on how we can gradually bring the social minimums to the level of European poverty policy. In doing so, we must ask how we can ensure that the unemployed, who are at great risk of poverty, get a job. In short, we need to work out a plan with job creation in particular according to a set timetable.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-18-54-plenair-ip169x.u54	Madam Secretary of State, thank you for your reply. I would like to remind you of a few things. First of all, I suggest there's a second tax shift. I will address Minister Peeters to that. We have made a proposal on a tax shift which is much more focused on lower incomes, where we can create a lot more jobs with much less money, just for the people we are talking about, the low-skilled unemployed. I propose a second tax shift that is much more targeted. I ask you to take that into account. Secondly, with regard to the increase in social minima, we have calculated it ourselves. The poverty threshold can now be compared with the prospect of social minima. Our numbers are up-to-date. 14 euros have already been realized, 251 euros to go. Those are the numbers. Jobs are incredibly important, but I'm a little tired of hearing "jobs," jobs, jobs" as a magic tool for all these problems. The numbers prove that it doesn't work. I'd like to quote a grade anyway. In Flanders there are 90 000 poor workers compared with 70 000 poor unemployed. Throw that mantra away from you and create jobs, but real jobs and no jobs for people who actually already have a job. Allow benefits to increase effectively to the poverty line. Just do so so so that those concerned can improve their situation in a humane way!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-18-54-plenair-ip169x.u55	Madam Secretary of State, just for the record. You're talking about 4.9 %, but then there was no index jump, no electricity bill...
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-18-54-plenair-ip169x.u56	Yeah, that was on top of the index jump.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-18-54-plenair-ip169x.u57	Yes, but the Di Rupo government didn't make an index jump, no electricity increase, no extra bills. This is about 2015. Your government was in power by then, Madam Secretary of State. I'm glad you're drawing some similar conclusions as we are. I am particularly curious about the plans of the Super-Ministery Council. I hope that this time it will be concrete steps and not just plans, because EUR 9.4 billion for Defence and 1.7 million poor people, that is the reality at the moment, Madam Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-18-54-plenair-ip169x.u58	End of oral questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-18-54-plenair-ip169x.u59	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-18-54-plenair-ip169x.u60	Mr President, I refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-18-54-plenair-ip169x.u61	Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-18-54-plenair-ip169x.u62	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2413/3) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2413/3) The title was changed by the committee to "" Bill inserting a Title 3 "The action for damages for infringements of competition law" in Book XVII of the Code of Economic Law, incorporating definitions specific to Book XVII, Title 3 in Book I and various amendments to the Code of Economic Law '. The title has been amended by the commission in draft law to include a Title 3 The draft law has 45 articles. The bill has 45 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-18-54-plenair-ip169x.u63	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-18-54-plenair-ip169x.u64	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Mrs Lijnen is the rapporteur. It shall refer to its written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-18-54-plenair-ip169x.u65	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this draft law has been discussed in detail in the Committee on Industry and is receiving our full support. It is high time that this 1989 law was modernised and adapted to reality. That's exactly what's happening now. The draft law has the merit of eliminating ambiguity as to the role and tasks of the Common Guarantee Fund. This only provides more security for the insured, which we all want, of course. In addition, we are now creating clarity about the electric bikes. Anyone who has an electric bicycle with a garage button is not covered by the obligation of motor vehicle liability insurance, which is a good thing. That is a clear and logical decision. However, it is still waiting for the Working Group on compulsory insurance to get the same clarity about all kinds of increasingly popular forms of motor vehicles, such as the monowheel and hoverboard. We hope that this can also be clarified quickly. Our group welcomes the fact that this bill corrects this in the compensation of the non-deputy victim when several vehicles are involved in the accident and no responsible vehicle can be identified. This has been the subject of different court rulings since 2000, which has caused a great deal of confusion and uncertainty. So we can only support an adjustment to this.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-18-54-plenair-ip169x.u66	Mr President, our group is also satisfied with the draft law before us, because it makes a number of technical adjustments, as well as a number of important substantive and far-reaching adjustments following the evaluation of the existing law of 21 November 1989. It now offers a number of solutions and improvements in a number of cases that were illogical and on which a lot of case law has already been followed, which has pointed to legislative uncertainties. We are pleased, among other things, that there is now more clarity about the payment of damage to victims when several vehicles are involved in an accident and it is not possible to determine which vehicle caused the accident. We are also pleased that there is a lack of clarity as to whether an insurer can make a claim against the driver who is not in good shape with the driving licence regulation. It is now also finally possible for an insurer to carry out that story. We are also pleased that the Minister has responded to some of our concerns in committee and made it clear that future sustainable means of transport, such as electric bicycles, are in principle not covered by the insurance obligation when the driver of the electric bicycle also uses the pedals. If there is a pure movement with drive without using the pedals and therefore has to move themselves, the vehicle is treated as a motor vehicle. If this is not the case, the vehicle will not be treated as a motor vehicle and will therefore be excluded from the insurance obligation. That is a good thing, because with it we want to put the emphasis once again on supporting future sustainable means of transport. We hope that they will not be burdened with administrative burdens and certain insurance obligations. We therefore fully support the draft law before us.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-18-54-plenair-ip169x.u67	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-18-54-plenair-ip169x.u68	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2414/4) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2414/4) The draft law has 27 articles. The bill has 27 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-18-54-plenair-ip169x.u69	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-18-54-plenair-ip169x.u70	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Mrs Sophie De Wit, rapporteur, referred to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-18-54-plenair-ip169x.u71	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in December, the Court of Cassation pointed out in four judgments that the police did not have the permission to consult the DIV database for the detection of owners of flashed vehicles. The draft law now before us must provide a solution to this problem. Our group therefore supports this objective. But what do we see now? The government solves this legal uncertainty by creating a new legal uncertainty. The Council of State had said that this problem had to be resolved by means of an interpretative law, but that opinion was completely ignored by the Minister. An ordinary law is now being introduced, which will come into force retroactively. We have therefore tabled an amendment, in order to provide the certainty which the Council of State called for. So, ladies and gentlemen, I invite you to approve our amendment. If that does not happen, then the traffic fines will still be contested and nothing has actually been resolved.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-18-54-plenair-ip169x.u72	Mr President, my speech will be somewhat the same as Mrs Lambrecht's. What's this about? It is about repair legislation following judgments of the Constitutional Court. The Council of State, miracle over miracle, is kind enough to say to the members of the government concerned that one should not solve the problem with a retroactive law, but with an interpretive law. In fact, the Council of State is so kind as to formulate a proposal, a piece of legislation, that one could use and that perfectly meets all the conditions. But what do they do? However, it is preferable to add a number of things instead of solving the problem and to opt for a retroactive law, without any justification for the choice of retroactivity. This is not the case either in the explanatory statement or in the debates. That is a guaranteed annihilation by the Constitutional Court, which is certain, if one does not even motivate why one works retroactively. In addition, I think we should bear in mind the conditions of the retroactive law. The Constitutional Court is quite right to be very strict in this, because otherwise governments will use this example of retrospective laws for anything. The Constitutional Court is actually saying that when a retroactive law is adopted, it must be proven that it is essential for an objective of general interest. Moreover, if that retroactive law has an impact on pending legal proceedings, which is the case here, then there is a particularly strict criterion, then there must be exceptional circumstances. Those exceptional circumstances aren't really here. In any case, I do not read them in the explanatory statement or in the statements made by the members of the government in committee. I learned a number of new techniques from the N-VA in the Health Committee this week. Mr Spooren says about ecocheques: if there is uncertainty, there is no uncertainty at all, because the opinion of the Council of State is of a very different order, let the law enter into force at KB, so that the law only enters into force after the Constitutional Court has ruled. I told Mr Spooren in committee that it was very original. We always support the power of change. We want to reward originality. At that time I asked whether that would also be his position on the government's draft laws which raise important constitutional objections and objections to rights and freedoms. Two days later, therefore, we will have a first draft law from the government, with which there are clearly serious problems of constitutional law. The drafting of a retroactive law is really not a matter for kindergarteners, but this is apparently a bill drawn up by kindergarten children. Excuse me, but I really can't say otherwise. If one does not know that the conditions of retroactivity must be justified, then I wonder which lawyers consulted this government. I think, frankly, that she didn't consult it, because anyone would know that. My group will table an amendment, in the same way as Mrs Lambrecht's, in which we simply accept the wording of a proper article of law, as proposed by the Council of State. The parties of the majority would follow and approve it better.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-18-54-plenair-ip169x.u73	Mr President, I agree with the comments made by some colleagues on the legal uncertainty generated by the principle of retroactivity of this law, which is insufficiently motivated by the government. On the other hand, it was time to put an end to ambiguities or some form of legal uncertainty regarding the use by the police of certain personal data. The Act of 8 December 1992 on the protection of privacy requires police services to seek prior authorization from the Sectoral Committee of the Commission on the Protection of Privacy for any electronic communication of personal data from other federal public services such as the Directorate for Vehicle Registration. This formality had become obsolete in practice. Had it had to be met to the letter, this requirement would have been counterproductive to the effectiveness of the police services. Moreover, this requirement, provided for by the Act of 8 December 1992, duplicated an article of the Police Function Act, article 44/1, which provides, inter alia, that "in the performance of their duties, the police may process personal information and data, provided that the personal data are adequate, relevant and not excessive, in the light of the purposes of the administrative police and the judicial police for which they are obtained and for which they are subsequently processed". More specifically, "in order to carry out their tasks, police services may collect and process personal data after the advice of the Commission for the Protection of Privacy and Personal Data". The Royal Decree of 4 June 2003 exempted the police from the obligation to apply for such authorization, but using terms with ambiguity that should be removed. Moreover, the Court of Cassation had stressed this and stated that "to provide for such an exception in a royal decree and not in a law is, moreover, a source of legal uncertainty as to the consequences which would result from the missing authorisation, in particular as to the validity of evidence based on the use of personal data". The purpose of this bill is therefore to restore legal certainty, thereby joining the advice of the Council of State and the Privacy Commission. On the other hand, it does not respond to the objections of the Council of State with regard to retroactive effect, nor does it respond to its request that the exemption from authorisation be also provided for in the law establishing the Carrefour des Véhicules Bank. While the main purpose of the bill is to restore legal certainty, it creates new causes of insecurity. That will justify my group's forbearance from this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-18-54-plenair-ip169x.u74	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have already replied to the comments made in detail in committee. It is important that this draft law provides a quick and efficient solution to the very important data flows in the various government databases, in particular between the police and the DIV. It has become clear from a number of judgments of the Court of Cassation that the current system of authorisations has become counterproductive and has become more expensive and inefficient. With this amendment of law, we are effectively giving the police forces the opportunity to base themselves on the clear legal basis that existed in the past, to request and use those data from government databases, without having to go through the requirement of formal authorisation. It is also very important for me to maintain sustained privacy protection. In various services, data protection officers (DPO) are set up. They will be responsible for keeping the various data that administrations have about citizens. That is why, in the police services, there is already a DPO. Indeed, a double control mechanism is already in place, namely through an internal consultant for the safety and protection of privacy, and externally through the Supervisory Body on police information and the P Committee. I believe that this amendment to the Privacy Act offers a more extensive legal solution, while an interpretative provision of the Act of 19 May 2010 establishing the Car-Carrefour des Vécars provided a solution only for individual cases. The Court of Cassation had spoken in that regard. More specifically, police services were able to access data from the Carfield Vehicle Bank, but not from other public service databases. We are solving this problem by extending this access. That is why I think this bill deserves your support.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-18-54-plenair-ip169x.u75	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? ) The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-18-54-plenair-ip169x.u76	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2405/4) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2405/4) The draft law has 3 articles. The bill has three articles.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-18-54-plenair-ip169x.u77	• 2 - Annick Lambrecht (2405/5) ****** The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments that have been tabled, the Rule that has been adopted and on the whole will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments and the reserved article as well as on the whole will take place at a later date. ****** Decision of the article-by-article discussion:
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-18-54-plenair-ip169x.u78	Sustained: the vote on the amendments and Article 2.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-18-54-plenair-ip169x.u79	Article adopted by article: Articles 1 and 3.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-18-54-plenair-ip169x.u80	******
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-18-54-plenair-ip169x.u81	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteurs are Mrs Carine Van Cauter and Mrs Goedele Uyttersprot. They shall refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-18-54-plenair-ip169x.u82	Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, human and modern justice is, among other things, justice for the people of Europe. Our legal system and rules must therefore be constantly called into question in order to best meet the expectations of those facing them, whether occasionally or regularly. That is how trust between the citizen and justice remains and will remain assured. In this context, victims deserve constant attention throughout the judicial process. That is why I welcome the unanimous adoption of this bill in the Committee on Justice. Two provisions which I will finally call common sense will have a considerable impact on the people concerned. On the one hand, in the event that no fault is to be proved, it will no longer be necessary to await the closure of the criminal proceedings in order to proceed with the compensation of the injured persons. And so this principle of law that we have no doubt learned, for those who have studied law, that criminal law holds civil law as it stands, here is simply adapted to the reality of our present society. Another element of this project is to allow the appointment of a coordinating expert simply to coordinate the work of the various experts and thus act as a privileged interlocutor between parties and judges, but also to try, as far as possible, to reconcile the parties. Here too, it is a simple practice of common sense. When the law adheres to common sense, one can only rejoice. The law suddenly becomes legible, the law suddenly becomes acceptable, it also becomes understandable to all the people who make up our society. Minister, you understand, we will support this project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-18-54-plenair-ip169x.u83	Mr President, I am extremely pleased with the unanimity of the committee, and I will not add any big words. This project responds to an urgent need, so I am very happy.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-18-54-plenair-ip169x.u84	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-18-54-plenair-ip169x.u85	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2402/4) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2402/4) The title in Dutch was changed by the Committee in draft law on the coordination of expert research and the acceleration of the procedure in relation to certain forms of faultless liability." The Court of Justice of the European Communities decided to stay proceedings and to refer the matter to the Court of Justice of the European Communities for a preliminary ruling under Article 177 of the EC Treaty (now, after amendment, Article 177 EC) and to the Court of Justice of the European Communities for a preliminary ruling under Article 177 EC (now, after amendment, Article 177 EC) of the EC Treaty (now, after amendment, Article 177 EC (now, after amendment, Article 177 EC) (now, after amendment, Article 177 EC) (now, after amendment, Article 177 EC (now, after amendment, Article 177 EC) and Article 177 EC (now, after amendment) of the EC Treaty (now, after The draft law has 15 articles. The bill has 15 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-18-54-plenair-ip169x.u86	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-18-54-plenair-ip169x.u87	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Mrs van Cauter, rapporteur, referred to the written report. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-18-54-plenair-ip169x.u88	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2437/3) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2437/3) The draft law contains 43 articles and 3 annexes. The bill has 43 articles and 3 annexes. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-18-54-plenair-ip169x.u89	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the last draft on our agenda. Given the relatively early hour, I suggest we suspend the meeting until 5:00 p.m. (...): (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-18-54-plenair-ip169x.u90	It doesn't matter to me. As far as I'm concerned, no problem. Then there must be a call for votes. We'll suspend for a few minutes while there's a call. The meeting is suspended for a while. The meeting was suspended. The meeting is adjourned.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-18-54-plenair-ip169x.u91	The meeting was resumed. The sitting has resumed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-18-54-plenair-ip169x.u92	The Conference of Presidents of 17 May 2017 appoints the Chamber of Representatives for the mandate of the Special Committee on "International Tax Fraud/Panama Papers" and the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry to finalise the mandate of the Special Committee on "International Tax Fraud/Panama Papers" to extend until 30 June 2017, as well as the mandate of the Permanent Experts of the Special Committee (Mrs Bourgeois and Mr Delanote). The Conference of Presidents on 17 May 2017 proposes to the House of Representatives to extend the mandate of the Special Committee on International Tax Fraud/Panama Papers and the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry to finalize the mission of the Special Committee on International Tax Fraud/Panama Papers until 30 June 2017 and to renew the mission of the permanent experts of the Special Commission (MM. Bourgeois and Delanote). Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. No observations? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-18-54-plenair-ip169x.u93	The Government requested urgent procedure under Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure when submitting the draft law amending Article 276 of the Income Tax Code 1992 on the settlement of the advance collection of taxes on long-term savings, No. 2454/1. The government requested urgency pursuant to section 51 of the Regulations when the bill amending section 276 of the Income Tax Code 1992 was introduced with respect to the imputation of the advance collection of the long-term savings tax, No. 2454/1. I would suggest that we speak on this question. I propose that we take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-18-54-plenair-ip169x.u94	Mr President, the urgency is requested by Mr Van Overtveldt and is justified by the expiry of the deadline for the attack year 2016 on 30 June 2017. The normal tax period ends and expires on June 30, 2016. It is therefore urgent that we prepare a project to make the early collection of the long-term savings tax attributable to corporate tax, but also refundable, in the context of pension savings. At present, this early collection is only imputable to the tax due but not refundable. It is therefore in the interest of the taxpayer to intervene. The repayment should be made possible before the end of the assessment period on 30 June 2017 in respect of the year 2016 of assessment.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-18-54-plenair-ip169x.u95	Mr President, I have a question on the urgency that is being asked. The draft presented by the Minister was adopted unanimously in committee yesterday. Can you explain to me why the urgency is being asked today? I do not believe that this rule has been introduced for such cases. It was discussed yesterday in committee, it was unanimously approved and if it follows the normal course, it will be on the agenda next week. So I don't understand why people are asking for urgency here.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-18-54-plenair-ip169x.u96	Normally it would be in two weeks, but okay. The point has been made here.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-18-54-plenair-ip169x.u97	Mr President, you know how these messages are sent to colleagues. I had a very fruitful discussion this morning with Mr Van Overtveldt and received a long note. However, this detail had escaped me, Mrs Kitir. So, to that extent, I think it's a little less urgent. However, I have been Minister of Finance and by the end of the attack period one week will save a sip on the drink. I also know that the maximum time limit is usually requested after a vote, so in that sense I believe that this request retains its object. However, I am prepared for your wisdom.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-18-54-plenair-ip169x.u98	I give the floor to the chairman of the Finance Committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-18-54-plenair-ip169x.u99	Mr President, as Mrs Kitir says, that was adopted unanimously. The discussion took place yesterday in committee. Some of the amendments were before us, but they were withdrawn. There was therefore a consensus at the committee meeting. At first it was not thought that we would approve it immediately yesterday after the treatment. That must certainly be possible in the next plenary session. The report is not yet ready. Once the report is finished, it can be discussed here. I do not think anyone can object to this, since all the members of the committee supported the draft.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-18-54-plenair-ip169x.u100	Good. I understand that the question of urgency is being kept. I therefore ask once again that those who support urgency should now stand.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-18-54-plenair-ip169x.u101	Mr President, that makes no sense! We voted in committee this week. I don't understand. That makes absolutely no sense!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-18-54-plenair-ip169x.u102	I can only note that the government is asking for urgency.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-18-54-plenair-ip169x.u103	Mr President, the government is asking for urgency, but it does not know why. That's not right!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-18-54-plenair-ip169x.u104	Don't exaggerate!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-18-54-plenair-ip169x.u105	Mr President, I would like to have a nominative vote on the matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-18-54-plenair-ip169x.u106	Some did not vote!
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-18-54-plenair-ip169x.u107	We are therefore going to vote electronically on the question of urgency. Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes 70 Yes No. [[55]] No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 125 Total As a result, the urgency is adopted. As a result, the urgency was accepted.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-18-54-plenair-ip169x.u108	Mr President, I make two observations. First, the majority is asking for urgency without justifying it. The draft was voted on in committee and should normally be on the agenda for the next plenary session. This request therefore makes no sense. Secondly, I note that the majority is not in number. This poses a major problem to us. Mr President, I would therefore ask you to suspend the meeting for five minutes. I ask the majority to be in number in five minutes. Otherwise, we will have to see that you are no longer in a position to have laws passed in this Parliament. )
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-18-54-plenair-ip169x.u109	Ladies and gentlemen, I understand that Mrs Onkelinx is requesting a five-minute suspension.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-18-54-plenair-ip169x.u110	Mr President, that was my way of being constructive, in agreement with my opposition colleagues. Maybe there's one person coming running from his office. If, in five minutes, you are not in number, all this will have to be put back to the next sitting. What do you want?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-18-54-plenair-ip169x.u111	Ladies and gentlemen, as requested, we are going to suspend the sitting for five minutes. We'll take it back at 5:00. The meeting was suspended. The meeting is adjourned.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-18-54-plenair-ip169x.u112	The meeting was resumed. The sitting has resumed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-18-54-plenair-ip169x.u113	Mr President, Mrs Onkelinx has asked, on behalf of the opposition, for a suspension of the sitting, after which one could check whether the majority is in number. I therefore propose that you make a verification vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-18-54-plenair-ip169x.u114	No, that's not necessary. Votes will follow immediately, so we will be set.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-18-54-plenair-ip169x.u115	The last distributed agenda contains a list of proposals for which consideration has been requested. You have taken note of the list of proposals for consideration in the agenda distributed to you. If there is no objection, I shall consider it adopted; in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, these proposals shall be sent to the committees responsible. If there are no comments on this subject, I will take it into account as a matter of fact and refer the proposals back to the relevant committees in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 17 May 2017, I also propose that Mr Brecht Vermeulen's bill amending the law of 21 December 1998 on safety at football matches, No. 2475/1, to be considered.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-18-54-plenair-ip169x.u116	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 17 May 2017, I also propose that you take into account the draft law (Mr Brecht Vermeulen) amending the law of 21 December 1998 on security during football matches, No 2475/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-18-54-plenair-ip169x.u117	Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-18-54-plenair-ip169x.u118	Mr President, I would like to ask the urgency of this legislative proposal. I will motivate this immediately. It is a follow-up to a bill I drafted last year, following the next football season. Some cases were reported at the last minute. We withdrew our proposal in part at that time. We have improved and supplemented it. The editors and translation have asked for some time, but it would be desirable for the new law to come into force before the start of the new football season, 2017-2018. Why? Because there are some special safety provisions coming that apply to teams other than the football clubs that are now subject to them. There are a number of specific safety measures to this end. In short, I would like to ask the urgency of this legislative proposal. In the past there were few comments on this and last year I asked the urgency for a similar reason.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-18-54-plenair-ip169x.u119	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-18-54-plenair-ip169x.u120	Yes, Mrs. Onkelinx, we will vote electronically. The Members who support the urgency vote in favour, the others vote against. Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check his voice? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 2) Yes 77 Yes No. [[45]] No Abstentions 13 Abstensions Total 135 Total As a result, the urgency was accepted. As a result, the urgency is adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-18-54-plenair-ip169x.u121	This interview was held at the public meeting of the Commission for Health, the Environment and the Social Renewal of 10 May 2017. This inquiry was developed in public meeting of the Public Health, Environment and Renewal Committee of the Society on 10 May 2017. Two motions were tabled (MOT n° 212/1): - a motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mrs Catherine Fonck; - a simple motion was tabled by the ladies Ine Somers and Yoleen Van Camp. Two motions were tabled (MOT nr. 212/1): - a motion of recommendation was tabled by Ms. Catherine Fonck; - a simple motion was tabled by Mrs Ine Somers and Mrs Yoleen Van Camp. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put this motion to the vote. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-18-54-plenair-ip169x.u122	Mr. President, after football, it would be good to stop for a moment on these patients. Colleagues of the majority, you know that the Minister of Health, and you behind her, have kept repeating that patients would not be affected at all by the savings in the health sector. I tabled this dossier in the form of an inquiry because I wanted this debate to come back to plenary. Indeed, it illustrates in a terrible way the case of patients who are affected by a rare disease, acquired immunodeficiency syndrome. These patients suffer from this and need heavy treatment that is administered intravenously or subcutaneously. It is also expensive, about EUR 1,500 per month, or EUR 10,000 per year. You have made the choice to simply remove the reimbursement of this treatment for some patients. They will no longer be entitled to it, even though their doctors, specialists in this field, want to maintain it. This is a serious choice for these patients, but they are not the only ones affected by savings. At the very least, when you decide to change reimbursement rules, still pass that you claim to do so by economy, because a scientific evolution has taken place, and that you change the rules for future patients. But not to take into account patients who are treated with these medicines today, by deciding at state level that they are no longer entitled to them unless they are rich and can pay close to 10,000 euros a year, that is not right! I hope that you will all take the measure of what these patients are going through here. I'd like to be their spokesperson. I do not necessarily want to change all the rules, but rather that we take into account the patients who are being treated today, and that we examine the situation on a case-by-case basis on the basis of medical records, to determine whether or not they can continue to benefit from this treatment. Their lives are truly at stake. That is the meaning of my motion. I call on you, ladies and gentlemen, not to turn this motion aside. Thank you for these patients.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-18-54-plenair-ip169x.u123	Mrs Fonck, thank you. Are there any other explanations of vote? Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check his voice? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / Fin du vote. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 3) Yes 75 Yes No. 59 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 134 Total The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motion of recommendation lapses. The simple motion was adopted. Therefore, the motion for recommendation is over.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-18-54-plenair-ip169x.u124	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-18-54-plenair-ip169x.u125	Mr Nollet, as long as 76 Members are present, there can be a valid meeting and a vote, so there is no problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-18-54-plenair-ip169x.u126	This interview was held at the public meeting of the Committee for the Interior, General Affairs and Public Administration of 10 May 2017. This inquiry was developed in a public meeting of the Committee on the Interior, General Affairs and the Civil Service on 10 May 2017. Two motions were tabled (MOT n° 213/1): - a motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mr Alain Top; - a simple motion was tabled by Mr Conseil Degroote. Two motions were tabled (MOT nr. 213/1): - a motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr. Alain Top; - a simple motion was tabled by Mr. Koenraad Degroote. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put this motion to the vote. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-18-54-plenair-ip169x.u127	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, a few weeks ago we heard the decision of the Minister of the Interior to reduce the Civilian Protection mission and close four of the six barracks in our country. The barracks of Brasschaat and Crisnée can stay open. We believe that the reform of civil protection is based on wrong principles which are not rational or efficient. Several experts in the field say that it is quite wrong to argue that the speed of intervention would no longer be important for the specialised tasks that civil protection would now carry out. An efficient task will benefit from a single chain of command, but certainly not from closing existing barracks and keeping only two barracks open in the east of the country. Especially the closure of the barracks of Liedekerke and Jabbeke is incomprehensible. The unit in Liedekerke was first ranked as the most suitable and cost-effective barracks by its central location and well-equipped buildings on the basis of an objective analysis. Jabbeke is an important barracks for combating disasters at sea. The very specific expertise of this barracks cannot be easily received by the relief zones or other barracks. Through this motion, we ask the Minister to present the vision for the future for the various barracks and to reverse the decision to undermine the Civilian Protection Task Package and to close the four barracks, so that security remains central and the expertise for all citizens in our country remains as secure as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-18-54-plenair-ip169x.u128	Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check his voice? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / Fin du vote. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes 77 Yes No. 58 No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 136 Total The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motion of recommendation lapses. The simple motion was adopted. Therefore, the motion for recommendation is over.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-18-54-plenair-ip169x.u129	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / Fin du vote. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 5) Yes 131 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 3 Abstensions Total 134 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (2413/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (2413/4)
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-18-54-plenair-ip169x.u130	Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-18-54-plenair-ip169x.u131	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 6) Yes 132 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 4 Abstensions Total 136 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (2414/5) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (2414/5) Reason for abstention? Reason for abstinence?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-18-54-plenair-ip169x.u132	Mr President, my abstention is justified by a pairing agreement with Mr Degroote. The same will apply to the other agenda items.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-18-54-plenair-ip169x.u133	Vote on Amendment No 3 by Hendrik Vuye cs on Article 2. (2405/5) Vote on Amendment No 3 by Hendrik Vuye cs to Article 2. (2405/5) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 7) Yes [[15]] Yes No. 77 No Abstentions 44 Abstensions Total 136 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 2 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 2 was adopted. Reason for abstention? Reason for abstinence?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-18-54-plenair-ip169x.u134	Mr President, we recognize the legal uncertainty resulting from the judgment of the Court of Cassation of 13 December this year. Unfortunately, the solution chosen by the government is critical since, according to the Council of State, the project may not change the situation. Above all, with regard to the issue of retroactivity, a problematic point has been raised by the Privacy Committee and we regret that the government has not chosen the alternative solution, i.e. a law of interpretation, as proposed by the Council of State. The explanation provided by the Secretary of State is not convincing. Indeed, it is based on cases that do not yet exist. For this reason, my group and I will abstain from this project.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-18-54-plenair-ip169x.u135	Vote on Amendment No 2 by Annick Lambrecht inserting an article 2/1(n). (2405/5) Vote on Amendment No 2 by Annick Lambrecht to insert an Article 2/1(n). (2405/5) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 8) Yes 34 Yes No. 77 No Abstentions 25 Abstensions Total 136 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-18-54-plenair-ip169x.u136	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 9) Yes 77 Yes No. 2............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 57 Abstensions Total 136 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (2405/6) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (2405/6) Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-18-54-plenair-ip169x.u137	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 10) Yes 134 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 135 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (2402/5) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (2402/5) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-18-54-plenair-ip169x.u138	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-18-54-plenair-ip169x.u139	Mr President, I am going to justify my group's abstention. A priori, it is only the transposition of a European directive. So that shouldn't be a problem. However, when we look more closely at it, we are embarrassed by two points, since they are organizing a regression in terms of rights, albeit minimal, given the very limited scope of the bill, but symptomatic of the policy pursued by this government. First, we regret the removal of a remedy. By virtue of Article 22, the appeal in cassation is dismissed. Why? The motivation is exclusively economic. Once again, the rights of the litigant are affected, as they have fewer and fewer remedies. Secondly, we disapprove of the shift in powers from the investigating judge to the prosecution. This is a purely political choice that we cannot, of course, support. This measure results in a difference in treatment between suspects, depending on whether the investigation measure concerned is carried out in Belgium or abroad. So we can only deplore the position of this government. On the occasion of a simple transposition of a directive, he took the opportunity once again to unblock the powers of the investigating judge and to remove the remedies. For these two reasons, we will abstain.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-18-54-plenair-ip169x.u140	Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 11) Yes 107 Yes No. 2 Non Abstentions [[25]] Abstentions Totaal 134 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (2437/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (2437/4) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Mrs Willaert and Mrs Dedry voted in favour.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-05-18-54-plenair-ip169x.u141	We must proceed with the adoption of the agenda for Wednesday, 24 May 2017. We must proceed to the approval of the agenda of the sitting on Wednesday, 24 May 2017. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] The agenda has been adopted. No observation? [[No]] The agenda was approved. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Wednesday 24 May 2017 at 2.15 p.m. The meeting is adjourned. Next sitting on Wednesday, 24 May 2017 at 2.15 p.m.
