ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic713x.u1	Mr Minister, the Law of 1 December 2013 on the reform of the District Courts and amending the Code of the Court with a view to increasing the mobility of members of the Court of Justice gave rise to concern about the disappearance of the seats in the various sections. In the explanatory memorandum to the draft law, it was at that time ensured that basic services would continue to exist in all departments and that only a divisional regulation could derogate from this rule. I assume, Minister, that you are aware that this principle is apparently being abandoned in practice and that several special regulations are in the process of being adopted by the Presidents of the courts in order, provided that the application of Article 88 (1) of the Court's Rules of Procedure is subject to special rules. For example, the special rules of the Antwerp Commercial Court provide that the interim proceedings which normally take place in Mechelen and Turnhout will be held in the Antwerp branch. The special rules of the court of commerce in Ghent provide that interim proceedings shall no longer be held in Oudenaarde, Veurne and Ypres and only in Ghent, Bruges and Kortrijk. I also understand that it would be the intention, by means of a new special regulation, to transfer the interim proceedings from Dendermonde to Ghent. Minister, what is your position on this matter? Do you consider these regulations compatible with the provisions of the 2013 Act?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic713x.u2	Ms Van Cauter, the Minister of Justice has no longer been involved in the drafting of the special regulations that are instruments of internal management since the Act of 1 December 2013. The law has not altered the powers of the President in relation to interim proceedings or the powers conferred on him by Article 88 of the Civil Code. The law only amended the power to issue it. I now note that the Presidents are using Article 88 of the Court's Rules of Procedure to organise the operation of their courts. In the light of the autonomous management provided for by the Law of 18 February 2014 on the introduction of independent management for the judicial organisation, it is to the credit of the Presidents that they take matters into their own hands in order to maximise the use of resources within the limits of the law if this can improve the handling of the interim proceedings for those seeking justice. You will agree with me that the effective functioning of the courts must be encouraged. I have no particular knowledge of the issues of Dendermonde and Ghent.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic713x.u3	Minister, I fully agree with you that it is up to the superiors to improve the efficiency of their courts. If they use the regulations to strive for efficiency gains as far as possible, then we can only welcome that. However, this cannot be done in a way that makes access to justice difficult for citizens or even virtually impossible. Of course, that must be done within the limits of the law. I listened carefully to your reply. I hope that you have also taken note of my question and that you will note that there is something going on. I hope that you will keep an eye on this and ensure that what is being done remains within the limits of the law. Efficiency must not prevent citizens from accessing it.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic713x.u4	Mr President, Minister, a number of questions have already been asked, both to your office and to that of the Minister of Finance, in relation to the VAT rate of 21% on pro-deprivations. Under the new rules, the pro-Deo services provided by lawyers or trainees under the second-line legal assistance, as well as the pro-Deo performance performed by candidate bailiffs under legal aid, are subject to the standard VAT rate of 21% from 1 April 2017. The administration still accepts that the special zero rate applies to the remuneration statements made out by 31 March 2017 at the latest, even if they are paid at a later date. However, the VAT decision does not yet determine which part of the pro-Deo fee the VAT should be applied to. Will this be on the entire fee the lawyer of the FPS Justice Department gets and also on the possible brake money that the seeker pays? Will the VAT decision not lead, on the one hand, to a reduction of the already very limited pro-Deo fee by 21% and, on the other hand, to an increase in that brake fee by the same percentage for the seeker? Minister, what part of the pro-Deo fee will VAT be applied to? Secondly, will VAT also apply to any brake charge paid by the seeker? Thirdly, how will the VAT due on the pro-Deo fees to be reimbursed by the FPS Justice be charged? Will the FPS Justice increase the value of a point of the pro-Deo fee by the VAT rate of 21% and pass it on to the lawyers, trainees or candidate bailiffs who in turn have to pay the amount due through their VAT return? Or will there be a periodic separate VAT transfer? I would like to thank you for your clarity on this point.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic713x.u5	Mr President, with regard to the application of VAT to pro-Deo compensation, the Minister for Finance is responsible. Following the finding that the Minister of Finance intends to apply the VAT to the payment of the pro-Deo points, by my department to the lawyers and to the brake money paid by the seeker to the lawyers, I contacted him immediately. I was asked to wait for the circular from the tax administration that implements the administrative decision for VAT application on pro-Deo. I received a draft of that the day before yesterday. I subsequently asked for a new interview in my desire to work out a pragmatic solution, both for the lawyers and for those seeking justice. A possible slope for the lawyer is that of the third-payer system. For example, the lawyer is relieved of the inclusion of the pro-Deo fees in the VAT return. This VAT is paid by the State, in particular by the Department of Justice, and benefits the State again through tax revenue. Indeed, much simpler would be for the Justice Department to pay VAT directly to the tax recipient. With regard to the VAT of the person seeking the lawyer's own contribution, it seems logical to me that a solution should be sought. Your party, with me, has set up the second-line legal assistance fund so that more people would have access to justice through the pro-Deostytem. This access now raises objections by increasing the applicant's own contribution with VAT would be counterproductive and takes back what was first given to the seeker. motivating the VAT exemption of these own contributions on social grounds should be possible in this respect. Nor can it be intended to allow the lawyer to pay the VAT on this own contribution. He is already receiving only 20 euros of which, if we include this amount, he would have to transfer 3.5 euros to the Treasury via the VAT return. I believe that we must work together to find a practical solution.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic713x.u6	Minister, I am pleased that you are also seeking a pragmatic solution. I hope this one gets there soon. The lawyer will be grateful to you and also to the pro-Deo services, of course.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic713x.u7	Mr President, I was asked from the sector concerned about the state of play regarding the late payment of experts to the FPS Justice Department. A serious catch-up has already been made on this point by your intervention during the 2015 financial year. An amount of 175 million euros in invoices from the past was repaid. Praise for what, of course. However, it is to my knowledge that there would now be new late payments, including on the basis of the legal experts. I would have liked an answer to the following questions. Are there any arrears to be paid, which date from before 1 January 2015? Are there any outstanding invoices to be settled for the financial years 2015 and 2016? If yes, can you provide an overview of late payments by specific cost item for the years 2015 and 2016? What exact loopholes may still exist for which categories of legal experts? If so, what is the time frame for the payment of these arrears? What's the reason for these behinds? What structural measures were taken to prevent such late payments in the future?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic713x.u8	Mr President, Mr Van der Donkt, we did indeed make a very important effort in 2015, as you point out, to eliminate the accumulated backlogs before 1 January 2015. As far as 2015 itself is concerned, an additional effort was made at the beginning of 2016 to remove the remainder of the claims on court fees in criminal matters so that 2015 has been almost fully discharged. For 2016, there is still an overflow of experts' progress being processed this year. At present, the volume has been reduced to 3.4 million euros known cost statements, dating from before the end of 2016. This is mainly a package of claims from a very diverse group of performers, including mainly doctors. It is always a matter of very small cost statements, but the processing process remains equally cumbersome. In the meantime, people have been recruited from other entities of the department to help the Central Court Office and recruitments have taken place within the framework of Rosetta in a very short time. In order to reduce the volume of cost statements, initiatives were taken to move to monthly collection states and even to work with the payment of flat-rate payments in certain situations, such as for telecom operators. However, it remains important and crucial that structural funds for judicial costs in criminal matters should be properly aligned with expected consumption. The audit bodies, the Finance Inspectorate and the Court of Auditors have also argued in favour of this. It is also intended to address the management and processing of court fees differently. It concerns the creation of specialised agencies for court fees rather than a disparate treatment at 250 locations and further automation with electronic claim and e-invoicing. To this end, a first set of resources was foreseen in 2017 with a view to full implementation from 2019.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic713x.u9	Thank you, Minister, for the answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic713x.u10	Minister, the press has relayed a proposal by the federal prosecutor to ban the use of websites advocating terrorist violence. I quote his statements in the media: "In our country, it is forbidden to visit sites that broadcast images of abuse on children. In some cases, a suspect may have a beheading image on his gsm. Why? Without restricting freedom of expression, conscious possession or search for jihadist propaganda should be prohibited." In the terrorist context that is unfortunately ours, especially with the emergence of extremists who feed their radicalization process with content available on the web, the magistrate's suggestion opens a debate. How do you view this federal prosecutor's proposal in terms of feasibility and effectiveness? Do you have this idea of a ban on terrorist propaganda? Is there any room for reflection on this at federal and possibly European level? If so, could you provide us with more information on this matter?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic713x.u11	Mr Calomne, the federal prosecutor himself has clarified and nuanced what you have just quoted. He insisted that what he is aiming for above all is the fact that a person can train in terrorism via the Internet. Currently, the Penal Code criminalizes the fact of receiving training from someone to commit a terrorist act, but does not explicitly cover self-training, which we can call self-training. This involves, for example, collecting information on the manufacture of explosives, with a view to committing a terrorist attack. In many cases, the conduct will probably be covered by the criminalization of the pre-trial act of a terrorist attack, voted by the House last year. It is possible that not all situations are yet covered and that a refinement of Belgian criminality is needed, in particular in order to implement the European Directive of 15 March 2017 on the fight against terrorism. It is in this way that I understand the words of the federal prosecutor, and it is in this sense that I think it is useful to work. The federal prosecutor also stressed the importance of not violating freedom of expression. Moreover, not to go too far in criminalization is not only necessary to protect the values that these terrorists are trying to destroy, it is also essential not to judicialize too quickly and let the intelligence services do their job. In this respect, I refer you to the work of this Parliament's committee of inquiry. One mistake would be to incriminate because we want to be able to monitor. It is to forget that surveillance is possible before entering the field of criminalization. This is the work of the intelligence services. If we incriminate too soon, we risk preventing their work.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic713x.u12	Minister, thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic713x.u13	Minister, a week ago I asked you a question about your plan to combat overcrowding in prisons. This week I read in the newspapers, including in De Morgen, that the overpopulation in prisons is falling below 10%. Last week there was an overpopulation and this week there is a decline in the overpopulation. The article on the decline in overpopulation, published on Tuesday, I have not quite finished reading it, or there will be a new article on Wednesday on the fact that 200 prisoners have to sleep on the ground, since the number of prisoners in the last month rose to 10 800. Mr Minister, I have three questions for you to deal with a little bit of confusion. How is it that the number of prisoners has increased in recent months, while the overpopulation in prisons is declining? What is the share of convicts serving their sentence and what is the share of detained in custody? What measures will you take to ensure that prisoners no longer have to sleep on the ground?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic713x.u14	In 2016, Mrs Lambrecht, compared to the previous annual figures, effectively reduced the population, absolutely, as well as the overpopulation ratio, relative, to capacity. Since the autumn of 2016 and during the first semester of 2017, the population rate has definitely increased, combined with the loss of capacity in the prisons at Merksplas and Vorst, thus increasing the overpopulation ratio. On 10 July, 10 479 prisoners stayed in prisons, excluding prisoners under electronic supervision or prisoners on penitentiary leave, prisoners with an exit permit, etc. There are 5 775 convicts and 3 844 defendants. It concerns approximately 55% of the convicts and 36% of the accused. In order to prevent overpopulation, a number of measures were taken concerning external legal status, namely the extension of penitentiary leave and the adjustment of the eligibility dates for the provisional release of convicted persons subject to one or more custodial sentences, the executable part of which is three years or less. These measures also allow prisoners to prepare their social reintegration more intensively. It was also decided to move to the new prisons in Beveren and to place additional 40 beds in Leuze-en-Hainaut, as allowed by the DBFM agreement. These additional places will be completed in the coming months with some 70 places in the prison of Leuven-Central and some 10 places in the prison of Oudenaarde, due to internal renovations. Finally, the additional places for internees, 182 in the FPC in Antwerp, which will be opened from 1 August and some 100 places in the regular psychiatric care sector, will provide relief and help to make ground sleepers a thing of the past.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic713x.u15	Thank you, Minister, for the answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic713x.u16	Mr Minister, I have been asking you and your colleague Jambon for several months about the work to be done at the courthouse in Tournai in order to secure it. At the end of June, a person entered the building with a weapon and a loader in his bag. Fortunately, the vigilance of a security guard has enabled the suspect and nervous behaviour of the person to be identified and questioned in time. Several phases of security work have been carried out at the courthouse since 2011. However, I note that today, people know how to enter the building in possession of a weapon, which is not reassuring. Minister, allow me to ask you the following questions. Could you tell me what is the status of the anti-intrusion security study? Will a security door system with a weapons detector be installed?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic713x.u17	Mr President, Mr Delannois, the study on the anti-intrusion aspect within the Courthouse in Tournai is being carried out by my services. However, this took longer than expected. In order to optimize this type of installation, my services preferred to pair it with the organizational analysis of space and thus with the re-location of services in the context of efficient security. As already announced, my services will transmit the study and needs to the Régie des Bâtiments for the judicial re-entry. This year, I have already developed a more extensive security policy and have also communicated with the Colleges. The option has been taken to further secure a number of judicial buildings with a scanning facility, which allows for the organization of all at-risk hearings. The main buildings in Brussels are currently equipped with such a facility; other buildings are expected to be equipped this year. This is the case with the courthouses of Antwerp, Ghent, Charleroi and the northern annex to Liège. However, the option exists to use a light scanning facility in other large buildings, such as in Tournai, if it is estimated that there is an increased risk. Security services have mobile security portals that can be placed as needed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic713x.u18	Thank you, Minister. I will therefore await the study of the Régie des Bâtiments. I still often feel like we're playing ping-pong in between. In any case, I hope that the game will not last too long, because when a person enters the courthouse in Tournai with a weapon, it is not very reassuring.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic713x.u19	The next item is Question No 19832 by Mr Vanden Burre and Question No 19897 by Mrs Özen. As Mr Vanden Burre is not present, I shall pass the floor to Mrs Özen.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic713x.u20	Mr President, will our colleague join us?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic713x.u21	I sent him a message, but he didn't answer me.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic713x.u22	I therefore propose that you wait a little while and let our colleague Van Hecke ask his question. I will then ask all my questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic713x.u23	Thank you for your collegiality, Mrs Özen. Minister, the Potpourri II Act of 5 February 2016 generalised the correction of crimes. The goal was for fewer cases to be dealt with by the courts of assists. It was clear, however, that neither the government nor Parliament intended to systematically correct all crimes, and certainly not on the basis of standardised justifications in the proceedings of the court. The explanatory memorandum to the Potpourri II bill was very clear. I quote: 'As the Council of State points out, the correcting process has in practice become an artificial and systematic process, which is formally motivated by standardised style formulas. What is understandable for less serious crimes that no one would bring before the Court of Assists would not be acceptable for the most serious crimes. Another quote is as follows: "In the present case, it can be underlined that a correction cannot be based on completely stereotypical formulas "with a reference to cassation judgment "in particular if it relates to extremely serious crimes such as murder'. In implementation of these new provisions, letter No. 2/2016 issued on guidelines on criminal matters. In that letter, the following is stated: "As a general directive, the Public Prosecutor's Office shall apply to the Chamber of Inclamation for the referral of a case to the Court of Assists only if it considers that at that time it will claim the sentence of life imprisonment in the absence of mitigating circumstances." However, it is pointed out to me that even in homicide, a reference to the justice court is being sought by the prosecutor on the basis of stereotypes that I have just charged. Hence the following questions. Since the entry into force of Potpourri II, how often has a case been referred to the Court of Assists in our country? I'd like the figures by court. How often in the same period was a case where murder was at least one of the qualifications referred by the AI to the correctional court instead of a court of assists? Is there any control over compliance with the directives contained in the letter 2/2016 of the College of Attorneys General? If so, how does that happen? If not, do you think that is desirable? Are you aware of the fact that a reference to the correctional court is still being sought by prosecutors on the basis of stereotypes, which is contrary to the clear desire of the legislator? If so, what is your response to this and what initiatives will you take to remedy it? If not, how can the monitoring of the public prosecutor's progress be better carried out?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic713x.u24	Mr President, Mr Van Hecke, you are asking me for very precise figures which I cannot give you in this oral question. Well, here's what I can tell you. At the beginning of May 2017, a round question was asked by the various resorts showing that at that time 16 cases were pending before the Court of Assistes in a total of 99 cases. With regard to Brussels, which has the highest number of assistive cases, it can be answered that three cases were referred to the Court of Assists. By way of derogation from the Office's refusal to refer the case to the Court of Assistes, three cases were also referred to the Court of Justice. The verification of the circular COL PG 2/2016 mentioned by you is carried out by the reference magistrates in the matter. That reference magistraat shall accompany his or her colleagues in the assists pool in the decision-making process referred to above, keep an overview of the major criminal cases in the resort, ensure the coherent application of this Directive and from that perspective analyse the case-law of the Board of Inclamation. The criteria to refer to assists or to the correctional court include the very serious nature and circumstances of the facts, the previous criminal law and the personality of the offender. When the prosecution considers that life imprisonment should be sought, it naturally asks for the reference to the Court of Assists. I would therefore like to clarify the use of stereotyped formulas in the application for referral. The ratio legis of general correction was to limit the number of cases before the court of assists. I have just informed you of the criteria used by the D.A.'s office. The written application for referral shall be known prior to the settlement of the case. At the sitting of the Board Chamber or of the Board of Appeal, this action shall always be the subject of a conflicting debate between the public prosecutor, the defence and the civil parties. Written conclusions may be drawn. The final decision shall lie with the judges of the investigating courts, boardroom and chamber of indictment, who shall be obliged to duly justify the judgment or judgment to be referred.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic713x.u25	Mr President, Minister, it is as we might have feared in the discussion of Potpourri II that the change that has been made might lead to differences within the country, but also that many things would be corrected in this way. The reason I am asking that question is because it has come to my attention that in the case of a gruesome murder there is talk of mitigating circumstances because there has not yet been a criminal conviction. Okay, there are a lot of people who don't have criminal convictions yet, but this seems to be the only reason to accept mitigating circumstances and not to refer to the Court of Assists, even though these are extremely heavy facts. By the way, this is also one of the criteria you have listed. In my opinion, this should be closely monitored, because I believe that this style formula is used to refer, for the sake of convenience, also for serious facts and in some of the resorts, to the correct court. You say that there is supervision by the reference magistraat. I hope the reference magistrates are doing their job very well. In any case, the signals I received seem to me to be contrary to the clear guidelines given.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic713x.u26	Debates of the European Parliament Mr De Groote's 19842 question was converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic713x.u27	Mr. Chairman, Minister, the administration of property of a legally incapable person is a delicate issue that involves conflicting interests. On the one hand, there is the need to protect the heritage of a vulnerable person – on his own and in his own interest – and on the other hand, there is the need to respect as much as possible the autonomy of that person's will. The subject matter is complex and conflicts between administrators and administrators are common, especially when the protected person considers that the amount made available to him is ridiculously low, especially in view of his means. In such cases, protected persons are often distraught and consultation with a lawyer, taking into account the means available, can be complicated. A director's reluctance to authorize an expense to challenge his or her management is well imagined. Given the continuing ageing of the population, it is likely that such conflicts will continue to increase in the future. Minister, has your administration been informed of cases where protected persons are not even able to make their case heard before the justice of the peace? Are there any procedures in such cases? Given the number of provisional administrations and, consequently, the number of related conflicts, which will only increase over the years, do you not consider it necessary to guarantee access to a lawyer for protected persons?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic713x.u28	Mrs Özen, my administration is not aware of any specific cases in which protected persons have not had the opportunity to refer the matter to the justice of the peace. The law already regulates cases of disputes between the protected person and his or her administrator in different ways. Thus, article 497/4 of the Civil Code provides that in the event of an opposition of interests between the protected person and his administrator, the justice of the peace or the judge hearing the dispute shall appoint an ad hoc administrator, either ex officio or at the request of the person of trust, of any interested person or of the king's prosecutor. The procedure applicable in this case also provides that the application is signed by the complainant or his lawyer. The protected person is therefore not obliged to have a lawyer to initiate litigation between himself and his administrator. With the consent of the protected person, the trusted person may also request to be heard separately. Furthermore, article 1242 of the Judicial Code provides that the Registrar may, upon receipt of the application, request the Bar Association or the Legal Aid Office to appoint a lawyer of his own motion at the request of the person to be protected, of any interested person or of the King's prosecutor. The justice of the peace shall decide in the light of the circumstances of each case whether the expenses of the lawyer are charged to the applicant or to the protected person, unless the applicant or protected person meets the conditions referred to in article 508/13 of the Judicial Code in order to benefit from full or partial free legal aid in the context of second-line legal aid. The possibility for the protected person to apply to the justice of the peace in the event of a conflict with his administrator is therefore already guaranteed. I would also like to stress once again that different mechanisms have been established to monitor the performance of the Administrator's duties. A binding exchange of information between directors and between directors and the trusted person is planned. The trusted person ensures the proper functioning of the administration. She has the right and duty to report any abuse of the administrator to the justice of the peace. The administrator must report on its management in various reports, the content of which is laid down by law. These reports are forwarded to the justice of the peace, to the protected person, to the person of trust. They must be approved by the justice of the peace. In case of serious evidence of misconduct in the accounts, the justice of the peace may appoint a technical expert to assist him in his mission. The justice of the peace may at any time replace the administrator or modify the powers entrusted to him or her at the request of the protected person, his or her trusted person, his or her administrator or any interested person. The actions of the administrator may incur liability in the event of mismanagement. Finally, when it comes to professional administrators who are lawyers, the stickman is competent to deal with complaints against lawyers of his Order concerning violations of the principles of dignity, probity and delicacy that form the basis of the profession of lawyer.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic713x.u29	Minister, thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic713x.u30	Mrs Lambrecht, you gave Mrs Özen your agreement to ask her questions first, didn't you?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic713x.u31	Mr.President, Minister, on March 31, 2017, the winners of the judicial internship admission competition were informed of their success. However, not all are assured that they will be able to take such judicial training, since the number of vacancies must be voted on in the Council of Ministers. To date, this point has still not been passed on to the Council of Ministers, even as the internship begins on 1 October next. Since most of the winners are bound by a contract of employment - or collaboration - for lawyers providing for three months' notice, it will not be possible to comply with the contract if the decision is yet to be reached. Therefore, could you tell me, Minister, when this item will be taken to the agenda of the Council of Ministers? Can the number of vacant places be increased in the coming weeks, as appears to have been the case in previous years? For the coming years, why not set the number of places vacant before the examination for admission to the judicial internship or at least at the same time? Would such an approach not make it possible to assess more precisely the budgetary impact of this training course? This analysis seems to me to be of the utmost importance, as justice undergoes many reforms and significant budgetary restrictions.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic713x.u32	Mr President, Mrs Özen, pursuant to Article 259octies § 1 of the Judicial Code, the King effectively determines by deliberate decree in the Council of Ministers, for each judicial year, the number of places for judicial interns vacant for both linguistic roles. On June 30, 2017, my administration took note of the proposal of the College of Public Prosecutions to appoint 42 judicial trainees: 23 French-speaking and 19 Dutch-speaking. This proposal allows all the winners of each linguistic role in this year's competition to start their internship. The list of winners was published on 10 April 2017 in the Moniteur belge by the Conseil supérieur de la Justice. It has 23 French-speaking and 19 Dutch-speaking laureates, respectively. I have endorsed this proposal and will submit the approval of the royal decree to a forthcoming Council of Ministers, obviously before the holidays. It should be noted that the Pot-pourri V law was approved on 28 June last in plenary session of the House of Representatives, as you know. When the Act came into force, a formal procedure for opinions on the number of judicial trainees was introduced with the Colleges. The Act also provides that a royal decree must establish the number of judicial trainees before 30 April. This structuring of the procedure that will determine the number of trainees in the future undoubtedly responds to your concerns.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic713x.u33	Mr Minister, this will therefore be on the agenda of the next Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic713x.u34	For Friday, July 14 or Thursday, July 20.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic713x.u35	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic713x.u36	Mr. Chair, Minister, last Friday, we learned that your plan to extend prisoners' leave is now applicable in our prisons. Such leave will be granted only to prisoners who are already allowed to spend 36 hours in a row outside the prison. Now they can take a week out of two, seven days in prison followed by seven days out, a sort of alternate detention. If the prison leave system can be and is interesting to me, especially in an approach to the reintegration of prisoners, I do not understand your vision very well. Indeed, no global reflection has been made on the subject. The time seems to be more for crisis management than for the long-term project, working towards a better reintegration of prisoners. We are in the purest flow management of people. In addition, trade unions denounce an increase in their workload to set up this system. Minister, why not have commissioned a more in-depth audit on the subject? Do you see this as a one-time system? If so, how can we justify this difference in treatment between the inmates who will benefit from this measure now and those who would like to benefit from it in the future?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic713x.u37	Mr President, Mrs Özen, the prison directors were consulted in advance by the regional prison directorates. The Communities and the courts for the enforcement of sentences have not been explicitly involved in granting this method of extending prison leave, which is not within their competence. They shall not be responsible for prior notice of such leave or for its follow-up. I continue to regard the principle of equality as essential in the enforcement of sentences. However, for the time being, exceptional circumstances require exceptional and urgent measures in order to guarantee the rights related to human detention. An extension of prison leave, which is a form of execution of the penalty that the law entrusts to the executive branch, seemed to me to be the best option. You will probably have noticed that during the period from September 2016 to June 2017, the prison population increased from about 10,200 to over 10,800 units, without a clear explanation being found. For the same period, we lost, unexpectedly, some 400 places in the prisons of Merksplas and Forest, which, of course, had a negative impact on overcrowding. The action taken has a double positive effect. First, it has a substantial impact on overpopulation. Secondly, it opens up an effective step towards the reclassification of prisoners who have already benefited from prison leave and who are moving positively towards their reintegration. Prison leave is the responsibility of the Minister of Justice. The exceptional application of article 59 of the Law on External Legal Status, which gives the courts for the enforcement of sentences the power to grant prison leave as a special measure, is part of a particular context in which the judicial order is sought. As far as continuity of care is concerned, the rule is that these detainees are insurable at INAMI, as are all prisoners on prison leave. On the day of his departure, the inmate obtains a document from the medical department that mentions prescribed drug therapy. The nurse also indicates the accessibility of a nurse and the telephone number of the medical service. With the consent of the prison doctor, the prisoner receives all other prescribed medicines and medical equipment, if any, for a period of seven days. As with regular leave, the psycho-social service will also integrate extended leave fully into further processing of the file for other purposes. Any leave shall be discussed with the person concerned in order to determine whether there are any elements that require specific attention. The normal rules are applied in relation to the methodology of the psycho-social service. The expectations and objectives of keeping convicts on extended prison leave are that they are fully responsible. In this regard, it is important that they receive opportunities to take initiatives for their own social reintegration. They are not expected to receive compensation as part of electronic monitoring. On the other hand, the director must check whether convicted persons have sufficient means of subsistence before they leave prison. Currently, some 165 inmates are considered for extended prison leave. An evaluation of this modality is planned for the end of September 2017.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic713x.u38	Minister, thank you. As I understand it, this is a one-off measure that will last until the end of September. The risk is that some inmates who benefit from this measure will be treated differently by September with those who will apply after September. They will feel harmed by this differential treatment.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic713x.u39	Mr Minister, it seems that debt collection agencies responsible for collecting invoices from debtors buy debts regularly so that they can claim them. However, Article 1690 of the Civil Code provides: "The transfer may be relied upon against the transferred debtor only from the moment it was notified to the transferred debtor or recognised by him. In practice, the notification does not take place and there is no recognition by the debtor. Mr Minister, are you aware of this improper way of collecting debts? What measures will you take to prevent such practices?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic713x.u40	Mrs Lambrecht, first of all I would like to confirm that, in the situation you described, the transfer of claim must also be notified to the transferred debtor in order to be contrary to him. However, this is not a formal notification within the meaning of Article 32 of the Civil Code. The legislator's general aim is to communicate something to someone, meaning that the way in which the transfer is communicated to the debtor can be freely chosen provided that it is done in writing. The requirement of a written document is considered indispensable in order to avoid the obligation on the transferred debtor to take account of a purely oral communication. It should also be noted that the legislator deliberately did not opt for a notification by registered letter, as the doctrine of law showed that it also has a number of disadvantages which make it ineffective. In addition, the transfer can also be recognised. Since the Law of 6 June 1994, recognition is no longer required in an authentic instrument. She can also be less formal. Moreover, in its judgment of 19 November 2015, the Court of Cassation ruled that it cannot be inferred from the mere knowledge that the transferred debtor has of the transfer of claim that he also recognises that transfer. I'm not aware of the practices you're referring to. In any case, I am in favour of an efficient recovery procedure, which avoids useless costs for both parties as much as possible. I already referred to the existence of the administrative recovery procedure for undisputed B2B money debts, which is faster and cheaper and avoids useless court cases. As I have already indicated to you, that administrative procedure is currently being evaluated and it is being considered to what extent the scope of that procedure, as laid down in Article 1394/20 of the Court's Code, could possibly be extended in the future to other undisputed financial debts other than those arising in a B2B context. Such out-of-court procedures may also help to reduce the number of transfers of claims to collection agencies. Finally, I would like to point out in general that the law of 20 December 2002 on the amicable recovery of consumer debts, which regulates the procedures for the amicable recovery of claims, contains a number of abuses in this respect.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic713x.u41	Thank you, Minister. I understand that you are not aware of the practices on which I asked a question. Would it not therefore be useful for us to investigate this, because we are getting signals that this is happening frequently?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic713x.u42	Mr Minister, four years after the investigation into construction fraud at the construction supervisor General Building Centre of the Veurnse slow investigating judge Yves Vanmaele was referred to the wastebasket, the Supreme Court of Justice is still opening a special investigation. Mr Minister, why does the Supreme Court of Justice, in charge of the supervision of the judicial system, only now launch an investigation, whereas the P Committee, in charge of the supervision of the police services, almost always initiates an investigation prior to a criminal investigation or disciplinary investigation? Why did the Supreme Court of Justice wait for a complaint before launching an investigation itself and drawing the necessary lessons? Is there any other prosecution against the then investigating judge? Is there another disciplinary procedure pending or has a new disciplinary investigation been opened recently?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic713x.u43	Mr President, Mrs Lambrecht, the decision of the Supreme Court of Justice to launch a special inquiry depends on several factors. The Supreme Court has informed me that at the moment it is only possible to confirm that, following a complaint lodged in 2017, the United Advisory and Investigation Commission decided to launch a special investigation. The purpose of this study is to verify whether the existing supervisory instruments have functioned properly and whether any adjustment is necessary for the future. In doing so, it will be possible to examine whether disciplinary action has been taken if it was justified or not and, where appropriate, why. Preparatory work is currently under way in order to launch special research. According to the information I received from the College of the courts and courts, there is no criminal proceedings concerning the privilege of jurisdiction against the person concerned pending before the court of appeal.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic713x.u44	Thank you, Minister, for your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic713x.u45	Minister, I understand that in the last 17 years, 1 in 3 deaths in prisons have been a suicide. On average, there was more than one suicide a month. These figures are no less than 8 times higher than for the rest of the Belgian population. The real number is probably even higher because there is so-called "misclassification," which means that suicides have been wrongly included as accidents in the statistics, for example in the event of an overdose. Apparently, this is the first time that we have had an analysis of suicides in Belgian prisons in our country. Between 2000 and 2016, 262 prisoners committed suicide within the prison walls. Many prisoners are particularly troubled when they arrive only in prison. Especially in the period immediately after confinement, the risk is high, says researcher Louis Favril. One fifth of all suicides take place within the month after arrival in prison. This would have to do with the stressful nature of the beginning of detention. The transition from free society to prison is hard for most prisoners. One suddenly loses one's freedom, and so does social support. Remarkable is that 1 in 10 suicides occur in the safety or isolation cell. Prisoners must feel both physically and socially isolated from their fellow prisoners. The feelings of anxiety and depression are often increased in isolation, which increases the risk of suicide. Of course, prison staff play a major role in detecting suicide in prisoners. Due to savings, persistent overcrowding and excessive workload, the threshold to approach a guard is often very high. Mr Minister, I really only have one question. Is there a policy of prevention of suicide in prisons, with overarching guidelines? If so, can you give me some explanation?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic713x.u46	Mrs Lambrecht, in prisons, suicide prevention is a complex issue involving various initiatives and involving various bodies, including the Communities, which are responsible for helping people. Several initiatives taken by the Directorate-General of the Prisons itself, together with external partners, in the area of suicide prevention, are shaping current policies. An increased vigilance by medical and psychosocial services at the reception of a prisoner is part of the standard procedure. There are also written instructions on visual control, and procedures when suicidal behaviour is diagnosed. Penitentiary security assistants, when they establish suicidal behaviour, immediately refer the inmate to the competent services, prison management, psychosocial service or care equipe. Given the important role of prison staff, particular attention is paid to this within the penitentiary training. Penitentiary security assistants receive the course of suicide prevention in basic training for seven hours. The focus is on detecting signs of suicidal tendencies, reporting them and responding appropriately. This course was completely updated with the help of the Flemish Expertise Centre Suicide Prevention. In addition, the training centres for penitentiary staff also organise a two-day flash training suicide prevention which is accessible to all staff of the Directorate-General for Penitentiary Establishments. In addition, in 2016 a training course "Train the Trainer' was organised in the context of suicide prevention. Since 2017, the conversational techniques section has been included in the two-day flash training suicide prevention and thus accessible to all staff members. In prisons, attention is also focused specifically on suicide prevention, both structural and ad hoc. The DG EPI has already launched its own initiatives and is also working structurally with the Community services on suicide prevention, as this is also a matter for them. On the Flemish side there is a collaboration with the mental health centres and on the Walloon side with the relief services services d'aide aux justiciables.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic713x.u47	I am very pleased with your detailed answer, Minister. I really did not think that so much would happen, but if so much happens and if so many courses are organized and the numbers are so high, then there is something wrong with the way they are currently working on them. I am not blaming anyone for this, but what is happening now is urgently needed in-depth evaluation.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic713x.u48	Questions Nos 19873, 19874 and 19875 by Mr Pivin are postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic713x.u49	Minister, Emergency Preparedness is currently undergoing major reform, led by your colleague Minister Jambon. This means that the civil security landscape will change quite significantly in the coming years. The number of barracks will be reduced and some officers will be reassigned; all this has already been mentioned. It is my responsibility that, to date, a whole series of missions are being carried out by Civil Protection for the benefit of justice. I am thinking in particular of reconstitutions in the context of judicial investigations. It is known that Civil Protection also intervenes in the event of a strike in prisons. On the eve of this reform, we therefore consider it appropriate to ask ourselves about these missions. Are these ad hoc missions or, on the contrary, recurrent missions? What are the modalities for carrying out these missions? As a result of the civil protection reform, will the justice system continue to use it? Has the FPS Justice been consulted in discussions on this evolving role of civil protection in our country?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic713x.u50	Mr President, the tasks that Civil Protection carries out for justice today are limited in number and are carried out on request in certain situations. This includes helping to distribute food during strikes in prisons. In recent discussions on the future of the tasks of Civil Protection, I have informed the Minister of the Interior of my concern to maintain, if possible, this mission. The new proposal maintains it by means of a mission which can be given by the Minister of the Interior. The Royal Decree of 2014 also provides for technical assistance at the request of the police and judicial authorities in the following cases: - persons and objects missing in a natural environment; - search for clues and human remains; - subaquatic research; - detection, analysis, measurement and sampling, identification, removal and transport of illegal and suspicious substances, except weapons and explosives; - signaling. As far as the future of this technical assistance is concerned, my colleague from the Interior has confirmed to me that this range of tasks will continue and that there will therefore be no real change in relation to the current situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic713x.u51	Thank you, Minister. I will therefore ask a few written questions about the specific tasks performed by Emergency Preparedness, but this time to the appropriate minister, Minister Jambon.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic713x.u52	Minister, on February 22, the Game of Chance Commission published an informative note in which the definition of the term "library" will be used for the processing of F2 licences. According to the note, "the following activities will have to be present cumulatively for applications to operate betting in a bookstore:- sale of newspapers and magazines; - sale of products from the National Lottery; - sale of tobacco and tobacco products; - sale of phone cards." The F2 licences make it possible to hire bets on behalf of a holder of an F1 licence, which allows it to organise bets. Bets can be used primarily in Class IV gambling establishments, but also in bookstores or in the enclosure of a racetrack. According to the definition of a bookshop chosen by the gambling commission, it would therefore be essential to offer products from the National Lottery in order to be able to obtain an F2 licence. This condition gives rise to the fear that the National Lottery will be given significant market power or even a de facto monopoly. On the one hand, the National Lottery would obtain the possibility of allowing an operator to obtain an F2 licence, whether or not it entered into a contract with the operator for the sale of its products. On the other hand, the National Lottery could, by providing all the contracts for the sale of its products with an exclusive clause, effectively prevent operators with an F1 licence from accessing the market via bookstores. The definition of a bookshop chosen by the gambling commission could therefore have important consequences. That is why, Minister, I would like to ask you the following questions. So far, what was the definition of a bookshop chosen by the gambling commission as part of the processing of F2 licences? Why did this definition have to be changed? On what basis was the definition adopted by the Committee on Games of Chance at its meeting on 22 February? What were the arguments for choosing this definition with cumulative conditions? Were the effects of choosing this definition considered? Do you agree with the analysis that the definition used gives significant powers to the National Lottery? If so, do you consider it necessary to amend the definition of a bookshop or to take any other measure to prevent a form of monopoly of the national Lottery?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic713x.u53	Mr Goffin, Article 43/4 § 5 of the amended Law of 7 May 1999 on games of chance, betting, gambling establishments and the protection of players allows betting to be undertaken by bookstores. However, the Act does not define what it means by bookstores. The definition on which the gambling commission has based itself so far is found in the Opening Hours Act. This law defines a bookshop as "the main activity to be made up of the sale of one of the following groups of products: newspapers, magazines, tobacco products and smoking articles, telephone cards and products of the National Lottery." An activity is principal where the sale of the product group represents at least 50% of the annual turnover. The Commission has decided to treat this list in a non-cumulative manner. Following the judgment of the Mons Court of Appeal of 20 October 2015 and the consultation of the SPF Economie regarding its acceptance of the concept of bookstore, it became apparent that a change in the definition of bookstore applied by the Commission secretariat was necessary. This judgment made it clear that the main activity of trade is the sale of one of the five product groups. This shows that the legislator has understood that the main activity of trade is in all the products indicated, i.e. in all those products. The list of those products is therefore cumulative. The FPS Economy adopts the same interpretation as the Court of Appeal. The aim of the amendment is to combat the phenomenon of false bookstores. Indeed, if the 1,000-metre condition for the opening of a new betting agency were not met, the operators would introduce requests as bookstores in order to circumvent the rule. It will no longer be possible for an applicant who does not propose press to obtain a license for bets. The point of attention regarding the position of the National Lottery was formulated at the presentation to the Commission of games of chance. It did not receive the particular attention of its members. To be complete, I would like to point out that two recourses of principle by private operators have been brought before the Council of State with regard to the adoption of this definition. To date, the Commission has not received any complaints from a betting organizer regarding the fact that the National Lottery would attempt to impose its position on the market.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic713x.u54	Minister, thank you. We will be waiting for the position of the Council of State.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic713x.u55	Mr President, Minister, in 2016, 235,647.5 days of absence were counted for all prison staff in Belgium. This represents an absenteeism approaching 10%, slightly more than in the years 2015 and 2014. There is a difference between the three regions of the country, with Flanders accounting for a rate of 7.53% absenteeism in its establishments, while Brussels accounts for 8.57 % and the Walloon Region for 11.4%. Minister, what are the main reasons for absenteeism for prison staff? How is the difference between the regions explained? In both the North and the South, what means are being used to reduce absenteeism in prisons?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic713x.u56	Ms Jadin, within the framework of the Working Group on Absenteeism within DG PPE, the Medex Service carried out a study on the reasons for absenteeism in prisons. This study was carried out on the basis of data for 2014. The main reason was diseases of the musculoskeletal system (18.8%), followed by respiratory problems (18.4%) and stress-related diseases (16.8%). These figures do not show large differences with the federal administrative public service. As an employer, DG PPE has no view of this. The difference between the regions can be explained by the fact that the staff of the prisons in Wallonia are on average absent longer (Wallonia: 33.08 days, Flanders: 23.4 days, Brussels: 23.9 days). As part of the prevention and reintegration of workers, the prison administration is preparing a "well-being" unit which will focus on this phenomenon. At the same time, DG PPE is also drafting guidelines to combat absenteeism. In accordance with internal directives, the procedure laid down is followed when irregularities are found in the absence of disease. This may result in a non-activity penalty for the staff member concerned. In addition, action is being taken on this subject in a joint working group with representatives of trade union organisations.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic713x.u57	Minister, thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic713x.u58	Minister, according to my information, as part of Masterplan III, it was decided to destroy the Lantin tower, which is a stopping house. It was also decided to build a new stopping house in Lantin and a prison in Verviers. While the installation of a prison in Verviers is a good thing because of the proximity of the judicial district of Eupen, I am reminded that it would not be planned to set up a prison there as well, which the local authorities deplore. According to article 603 of the Code of Criminal Investigation, a detention centre per judicial district should be provided for. However, in the district of Eupen, neither a prison nor a remand home is currently in place. Aware that the judicial district of Eupen is somewhat specific because of its linguistic nature and that a prison in the district itself would not be sufficiently occupied, it seems clear to me, however, that a detention facility near Eupen would be beneficial for the proper performance of the obligations of justice - not only for possible German-speaking convicted persons but also for the work of the investigating courts and the prosecutor's office of the King. Minister, will the German-speaking staff currently in Lantin be redirected to the prison house in Verviers as soon as it is opened? If so, can German-speaking prisoners in Lantin's detention facility still be provided with language guidance? If not, would it not be possible to provide for a detention centre, or even a mixed prison, in Verviers in order to guarantee linguistic supervision for German-speaking prisoners, in the vicinity of the judicial district of Eupen?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic713x.u59	Mrs Jadin, it is indeed true that Masterplan III provides for the replacement of the Lantin tower. This part of the prison is the prison, but it also houses some of the convicted. This explains why the reality is also taken into account in the replacement. It was therefore decided to build, on the one hand, a prison and, on the other hand, a prison. In Verviers, the choice was for a house of punishment. This is a conscious choice that I have made with the government as a whole, in order to clearly distinguish between a prison and a prison in the future. In addition, I hope to bring to an end the number of detention centres to one per borough. The old prison in Verviers was finally closed in November 2013. At the time, inmates and staff who lived or worked in the facility were transferred and transferred to other prisons, including Lantin. When the Verviers prison was closed, the detainees, from the German-speaking community, were transferred to Lantin. As this prison is located, like that of Verviers, in the Francophone linguistic region, the language rules have remained the same. I must, of course, respect the legislation on the use of languages, including staff commitments. Lantin nevertheless has a German-speaking social worker attached to the inmate welfare service. Interviews with psychologists are conducted in the presence of an interpreter. There are too few inmates in the Verviers area to provide both a prison and a remand home. I inquired about the number of German-speaking detainees in the region, there were four in June.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic713x.u60	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your answer. I had already asked you about the number of German-speaking detainees throughout our country in order to see how we could possibly address the question I have just asked you today. [[I have heard your answer, but I would like to ask you a small sub-question.]] Did I understand that a prison should be provided for in a judicial district?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic713x.u61	A prison.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic713x.u62	So he should have a prison in the judicial district of Eupen?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic713x.u63	I do not think I can give an answer today to your question, which is interesting.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic713x.u64	I'll come back to that, minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic713x.u65	Minister, Article 20 of the Act of 10 April 2014 amending various provisions with a view to establishing a national register of judicial experts and establishing a national register of sworn translators, interpreters and translators-interpreters provides that: "Without the exception provided for in Article 27, only persons who, by decision of the Minister of Justice or his delegated official on the advice of the Accreditation Commission, (are registered) in the national register of sworn translators, interpreters and translators-interpreters are authorized to bear the title of translator, interpreter-interpreter-interpreter and are entitled to carry out the translation or interpretation missions entrusted to them under the Act". Article 27 of the Act allows for the use of translators, interpreters or translators who are not registered in the national register; in certain circumstances, for example, in cases of urgency or unavailability of a translator in the required language. A transition period of five years has been foreseen, so that all sworn translators and interpreters can comply with the legislation, in particular with regard to the training and legal knowledge required. The Act amending the Code of Criminal Investigation, the Judicial Code and the Act of 10 April 2014 amending various provisions with a view to establishing a national register of judicial experts and establishing a national register of sworn translators, interpreters and translators was published on 31 May 2014 in the Belgian Monitor. To date, thousands of translators and interpreters have been sworn in by a court of first instance, a justice of the peace or an investigating judge. Some of them rarely work for justice, but prefer private clients. In addition, sworn translators, interpreters and interpreters do not carry out translation and interpretation only for the judiciary, but also for other authorities: police hearings, listening, marriages, examinations for obtaining a driver's licence, sworn translations of diplomas, birth certificates, etc. Minister, my questions are as follows. Since the opening of the provisional national register on 15 June 2017, what value have the services of translators, interpreters, sworn and sworn translators who have not registered in the register? Can they still perform benefits for justice or other authorities? Can sworn translators, interpreters and translators who are not registered, but only work for private clients still bear this title? What are the tasks reserved by law for sworn translators, interpreters and interpreters? What happens to acts performed by translators, interpreters and translators who are not registered in the national register? Are they likely to be declared invalid?
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic713x.u66	Mr President, Mr Goffin, sworn translators, interpreters and interpreters who were already active before the entry into force of the Act of 10 April 2014 may continue to carry out their duties under the transitional arrangements until 1 December 2021. They have until that date to register in the national register. Persons who were not yet active as sworn translators, interpreters and translators/interpreters at the time of entry into force of the Act will be able to register as soon as they are able to demonstrate that they meet the requirements of the Act. With regard to the title of sworn translator, interpreter and translator-interpreter, I can confirm that the law is clear. Article 20 states that "Only persons who, by decision of the Minister of Justice, have been entered in the national register of sworn translators, interpreters and translators-interpreters shall be entitled to bear the title of translator, interpreter or translator-interpreter and shall be entitled to carry out the translation or interpretation tasks entrusted to them under the law." Exceptions are provided for in section 27 of the Act. The judicial authority, which entrusts the mission by a reasoned decision, may designate a translator, interpreter or translator-interpreter who is not registered in the national register of sworn translators, interpreters and translators in cases of emergency or if no sworn translator, interpreter or translator-interpreter is available for the language concerned or if the national register, given the scarcity of the language, does not include any sworn translator, interpreter or translator-interpreter with the required knowledge of the language concerned. The persons covered by these exceptions shall bear this title only for the mission entrusted to them. This applies only to the tasks entrusted by the judicial authorities. In order to determine which tasks are reserved for sworn translators, interpreters and interpreters, we are currently looking for and drawing up a list of the various legal provisions which require a translation to be made by a sworn translator, interpreter or translator-interpreter. At present, we have identified a hundred references. The nullity of acts produced by translators, interpreters and interpreters who are not registered in the register is not provided for in the Act of 10 April 2014. Reference should be made to legislation that defines what a legal translation is.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic713x.u67	Minister, thank you for the clarifications on this particular topic.
ParlaMint-BE_2017-07-12-54-commissie-ic713x.u68	This concludes our work. Question No 19851 by Mrs Van Vaerenbergh is transformed into a written question. We have no news from Mrs Smeyers about her question No 19818.
